"Advertisement."
"The theory that lawyers only are suitable material for high political offices is slowly crumbling, and there has been a tendency to suggest financiers or business men in order to get better results."
"Members should continually keep in mind their privilege of contributing written discussions on papers presented at any meeting of the Institute, and printed in the Proceedings. It has been found practically impossible to print papers for general distribution in advance, and in most cases the best that can be done is to have them available at the meetings. Distant members who are interested in any paper announced for presentation may obtain copies by applying to the office. Written discussion on such papers if mailed within a month, and found to be acceptable, may be incorporated in the Proceedings. The membership now extends throughout the world, and it is impossible for any committee or individual to invite a discussion from all engineers who have had experience in the particular branch of work to which a paper pertains. The membership should appreciate the great amount of work which is being constantly done by committees at considerable personal sacrifice, and wherever possible should supplement this work by individual effort for the general good of the profession. Engineering practice varies in different parts of the world, and emergencies frequently arise which call for the exercise of ingenuity to meet unusual conditions. A record of methods adopted may thus become of general interest and its publication will redound to the credit of the originator."
"Sufficient care is not exercised in the matter of references either by candidates for election or for transfer, or by the members referred to. Members occasionally affix their signatures to an application blank, upon the request of a mutual friend, and a little later when the usual inquiry-form is received from the secretary, reply that the applicant is unknown to them, and that there must be some mistake. The signature proves that the application was endorsed by request, and that the incident was probably forgotten. If proper inquiry were made at the time, the circumstances would in most cases be so fixed in the mind that the reference could make a suitable reply. Applicants are also frequently careless in the selection of references. In one case a well-known scientist and professor who was referred to was much chagrined because he could not recall the applicant's identity. Upon investigation it appeared that the applicant had listened to a lecture by the professor. An applicant for transfer who could give but three out of the five references required, suggested that the other two might be selected from the membership at large. Proper care should be exercised in the selection of qualified references, as applications for election or transfer are delayed in many instances because it appears to be impossible to elicit suitable information. Careful reading of the instructions printed on the forms would obviate many of the difficulties which arise in connection with elections and transfers."
"The Committee on Local Organizations would submit the following report on the Branch situation and of the work of the committee during the last year."
"The regular monthly meeting of Toledo Section, was held August 2, 1907, at the Boody House. The secretary, Geo. E. Kirk, presided owing to absence of the chairman."
"At a regular meeting of the Board of Directors held in the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, Friday, August 30, 1907, at 3:30 p.m., the following 55 Associates were elected: ADAMS, ARTHUR, L., Maiden Electric Co.; res., 7 0 Linden Ave., Maiden, Mass."
"Mr. H. McCullough has accepted a position as electrical engineer for the Pittsburgh and Montana Copper Company, of Butte, Montana."
"The following volumes have been received from the McGraw Publishing Company and placed in the Library of the Institute: AMERICAN TELEPHONE PRACTICE A comprehensive treatise, including descriptions of apparatus, line construction, exchange operation, etc. By Kempster B. Miller. Fourth edition entirely rewritten and greatly extended. 904 pages, 643 illustrations. New York, McGraw Publishing Co. Price, $4 net."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The conditions necessary in order that an electric motor may operate successfully in regenerating or restoring power to the supply circuit are: 1. The counter pressure generated by the motor must be greater than the impressed pressure of the supply circuit. 2. The value of this excess counter pressure must be under control and maintained in suitable relation to the impressed pressure. 3. There must be at the time other power-consuming devices connected to the supply circuit."
"For several years past some of our large manufacturers have used fractional pitch windings, for induction motors to a considerable extent, and for alternators to a lesser extent."
"General. In order to appreciate the development and reasons for the existence of a commutating-pole railway motor, it is well to discuss in some degree some other developments. In the beginning, railway-motor designers had many difficulties to contend with."
"Railroads signals may be divided into three general classes according to their functions: (a) Those which confer rights on trains, or restrict their rights, known as train-order signals; (b) Those which designate the route a train is to take, and insure the safe condition of all switches and opposing signals on such route known as interlocking signals; (c) Those which are used primarily for properly spacing trains, known as block signals."
"There are so many points on which I fully agree with Mr. Sprague that it is perhaps well at the outset to dwell on one matter where we appear to disagree, and that is the relation of those engaged in the conducting of trunk-line railroad operation to the electrical engineering profession which is now gazing with hungry eyes on that enticing field of new endeavor — the electrification of trunk-line railroads. Without intending to indulge in the sarcasm and pessimism ascribed to our friend, the editor of the Railroad Gazette, I do believe with him that the cause of electrical engineering would be much more rapidly advanced if an effort could be made to bring the steam railroad official more closely in touch with the practical side of the application of electricity to the art of transportation. It is true that in the past the majority of steam railroad men have rather looked upon electric railroads as beneath their notice, but recent important developments in the change of motive power on some of the more prominent railroads of the country have dispelled this idea; and I feel certain that all steam railroad officials are now looking upon the future possibilities of the electrification of steam railroad traffic with keen interest and with a full appreciation of the magnitude and dignity of the problem."
"Dr. Steinmetz gives a clear description and classification of the lightning phenomena that aid us greatly in understanding the problems and the methods proposed for meeting them. They are, however, the simple problems; there is yet to discuss what occurs when two sets of waves started from different points on a long transmission line eventually come together. Aside from the increased constants (capacity and self-induction) I think there will be additional difficulties, due to the fact that in a long-distance transmission line traversing a great area there may be a storm at a certain part of the line and clear weather at another part; or there may be two independent storms in different parts of the line, giving lightning effects which induce waves that meet and combine, and increase the effects. Otherwise there would not be so much difficulty in protecting fairly well a long and extensive low-potential distribution system."
"The magnitude and direction of engineering development in apparatus for the electrical equipment of high-speed interurban railways is well illustrated by a study of the systems adopted by some of the more important lines recently built or now under construction. These systems may be divided into three classes, namely: 1. 600-volt, direct-current using either overhead trolley or third-rail. 2. 1200-volt, direct-current overhead trolley. 3. Single-phase, alternating current, 3300- or 6600-volt overhead trolley."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The good results to be attained by efficient, systematic, and enthusiastic development are so apparent at Schenectady, that there can be little question as to the advantages gained by local activity. It is evident that the prestige of Institute membership has strengthened what might otherwise have been a prosperous local society, but which even then would have lacked the influence it is gradually acquiring. It has an unusually promising field of operation, and its organization and committee work is thoroughly cultivating it. One of the peculiar features of the Schenectady section is the enrolment of non-members who pay a local fee of two dollars each year, and are thereby entitled to participate in meetings, listen to lectures, and to obtain at meetings advance copies of papers read. Experience has shown that this practice increases the regular membership of the Institute. No extra fee is exacted after formal election to the Institute, and so far the revenue from non-members has been more than sufficient to cover the expenses of the Section. This plan has not yet been brought before the Board of Directors for formal approval, but it appears to be of sufficient importance to warrant consideration by the Law Committee in the proposed revision of the by-laws. In order to attain the best results no particular line of policy has yet been promulgated concerning local organization work, as it was believed at the outset that the controlling conditions varied to such an extent in different localities that any restrictions might be objectionable. While most Sections have adopted bylaws, Schenectady has prospered without them, it being an unwritten law that a “kicker” be elected to an office, in order that he might then be in a better position to initiate any reforms he may have in mind. It appears quite possible that some of these features might be found advantageous in other localities, but in order to be effective, affairs should be placed in the hands of active working committees."
"The Board of Directors has authorized the appointment of a committee on education, in accordance with the sentiment expressed at the Niagara Falls Convention. This is the outcome of a feeling that engineering education should profit by closer relations with experienced engineers, who are able and willing to cooperate with the colleges in their efforts to attain the best possible results. Discussions at various conventions have shown that this is feasible, and as representatives of many technical schools who are members of the Institute have attended these gatherings, no doubt some of the ideas brought out have already been put in practice. It appears quite possible that a similar movement might be beneficial in considering the relations between the common schools and the general public. There is a well-founded impression that graduates from all schools are lacking in elementary principles which should be thoroughly grasped before the student enters upon his life work. A few years ago a system of vertical handwriting was introduced in several states, and no serious objection raised against it until business experience demonstrated that it was not suitable for commercial purposes. It was too slow, it lacked individuality, and did not harmonize with existing practice. Possibly if no other style had existed, there would have been no objection to it, but in at least some cases the innovation was abandoned. Possibly too much is expected of teachers. The character of the raw material which they are expected to mould, is frequently beyond the capacity of human effort."
"On several occasions we have listened to the experiences of those who have spent their vacations with the large manufacturing companies, and have heard of the advantages found there. In the short time remaining this evening I will tell you of my experiences during vacation work nearer home."
"Having waded through the requisite amount of red tape which is always present when starting work with any of the big companies, I finally got established with the testing department of the General Electric Company on June 24, 1907. After being asked most of my past history and whom to inform in case of accident, I was told by Mr. Crane that I would find my check on the “night board”, and I knew then that I was to have the grand privilege of working “nights,” which continued throughout the summer."
"More or less has been said during the past few years about the installation of high-tension cables. But little emphasis has been placed upon the necessity for extreme care in installation, although as a matter of fact the burn-outs, if any, appearing when the cable system is first subjected to operating or test voltage, are almost entirely due to faulty joints or to careless handling at the time the cable is being pulled into the ducts or arranged in the manholes. This is a matter that the purchaser of cable often overlooks, due no doubt to the fact that a careful analysis of cable breakdowns is rarely undertaken. Even when it is attempted, the results are often of negligible value in view of the extended areas of burn-outs, comparatively few systems having as yet been installed in which, by the aid of grounded neutrals, limiting resistances and ground-current circuit-breakers, the area of burn-out is localized and the usual consequential burn-outs eliminated."
"The first meeting of the autumn semester was held in the electrical lecture room at the Institute, October 10, at 7:40 p.m., vice-chairman T. C. Oehne Jr. presiding."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"Mr. Walter Schmidt has been made secretary and general manager of the Washington Electric Company, of Washington, N. J., in which he has a part interest."
"The following volumes have been received and placed in the Library of the Institute: TELEPHONE SYSTEM OF THE BRITISH POST OFFICE. By. T. E Herbert. A.M.I.E.E. Second Edition, Revised, with Additions. Illustrated. 218 pages. London and New York. Whittaker & Co."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"So many excellent papers bearing upon the subject of steam road electrification have recently been presented to the engineering public that the writer hesitates to add to their number. In the hope, however, of offering a somewhat clearer insight into the fundamental reasons underlying the electrification movement, this paper is written from the standpoint of a technical comparison of the performance of steam and electric locomotives."
"In the paper on “Line Constants, Etc.,” equations were given for the inductance and capacity of the parallel conductors used in transmission lines. The formulas given were sufficiently accurate for any transmission line calculations where the distance between wires is large compared with their diameters; where, however, the diameters are comparable with the distance, as is often the case with cable transmissions, it is necessary to use the strictly theoretical expression."
"While we are waiting for the remainder of the tests which are to be made upon the tube and the lamps strung around the room, we may as well proceed with the discussion. I feel that we have been listening to the exposition of a new art. My mind goes back to 1893, 1896, and also to 1898, the time of the “Moore Chapel,” when the Institute heard from Mr. Moore before. In those days what he had to show compares with what he shows us this evening as Stevenson's original “Rocket” compares with the modern Atlantic type of locomotive. Two years ago on entering the Madison Square Garden, I was greatly impressed with the appearance of a Moore tube in the lobby, and admitted then that I made a mistake in considering the Moore system not a success. I had had the impression that it was good only for illuminated signs and relatively unimportant work. The Madison Square Garden tube was a revelation."
"In regard to the use of motor-generators or synchronous converters, the question seems to me to be one of voltage regulation. The requirements of a railway system fed from a general transmission system are best met as to first cost and efficiency of operation by the adoption of the synchronous converter, and its almost universal use in railway installations would seem to leave no room for argument. The requirements of a direct-current lighting load can also be best met by the adoption of the synchronous converter, provided the distribution system is used for lighting only. Where, however, the distribution system supplies a mixed lighting and railway load (or any other load occasioning extreme fluctuations) the lighting system should be fed through motor-generator sets in order to smooth out the effect of unavoidable voltage fluctuations. Taking this broad view of the situation, there is a well-defined field for both synchronous converters and motor-generator sets, the question of voltage regulation determining the choice of either type of apparatus."
"I stated that hydraulic turbines for large capacity, of 7500 kw. or above in individual units, are not likely to be of great importance at the present. The extensions at Niagara Falls may contain such large individual units; I hardly think that for the Victoria Falls of the Zambesi, units of 7500 kw. will be installed. Our chairman, Mr. Mershon, will probably bear me out when I say that the units for Victoria Falls will be about five thousand kilowatts. In all these cases the line potential will be high, and, therefore, the generators will not have t o be wound for very high potentials. I believe, therefore, that my statement, that water-wheels need not seriously be considered as prime movers for large generators wound for high potential, is correct."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The value of a technical society to its members is so largely dependent upon meetings, that their character is a matter of supreme importance. There should be a continual effort toward improvement, not only in the grade of papers, but in the technical value of the discussions, and the general conduct of meetings. The experience of various Sections should be drawn upon for useful hints. Lantern slides have proved to be very popular, but facilities for their introduction are not always available. Whenever used, the speaker should have a preliminary rehearsal with the operator, in order that they may work in harmony. Unless absolutely necessary for a proper understanding of a paper, it is preferable to group the slides at the close, accompanied by very brief informal descriptions. Local meetings in various parts of the country now offer an opportunity for a continually increasing proportion of the membership to take a more active part in the work of the Institute. Just prior to the Niagara Falls convention, the Local Organizations Committee was authorized by the Board of Directors to call attention to the privilege of each chairman to represent his Section on that occasion. The result was very gratifying, and including these delegates, the following states, districts, provinces and countries were represented: New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Washington, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Carolina, Tennessee, Montana, Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin, Connecticut, West Virginia, Michigan, District of Columbia, Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, England, and Germany. Experience indicates that future conventions will gradually become more national in character, and that an effort should be made to obtain papers of world-wide interest in order that the discussions may be enriched by the experience of engineers working under varying conditions."
"There has been widespread recognition of the drift of young men from agriculture to the more attractive industrial field. Financial betterment has without doubt been the chief incentive, but there is a fascination in electrical work which has had an important bearing upon the movement. Engineers who have accumulated sufficient wealth to enable them to purchase and operate a large farm, have in some instances found rest and recreation in the actual practice of agriculture. Conditions are changing, however, and it appears possible that in the future small farms will be merged into such large tracts that their most efficient and economical operation will demand electrical distribution. The difficulty of obtaining farm hands who are able and willing to milk, has reached a point where dairies are being abandoned, and the land used for other purposes. For at least fifty years inventors have toyed with the problem of a successful milking machine. The press agent of the New York Electrical show announced such an exhibit, prefaced by the statement that thousands of people in New York City had never seen a cow, and thousands more had never seen a cow “get milked”. But electricity is by no means confined to this restricted field of farm work. A plant in a small town in Ohio furnishes current to milk cows, thresh grain, cut fodder, fill silos, husk corn, grind feed, pump water, saw wood, separate cream, churn butter, wash clothes, light barns and houses. Telephone and signal bells have become ordinary conveniences, the use of motors for field work will certainly increase, and in locations where water power is available, there would seem to be ample opportunity for the young electrical engineer to utilize his genius in adding to the growing prosperity of the scientific farm."
"The revised rules recommended by the Standards Committee and approved by the Board of Directors were printed in the July issue of the Proceedings. It is well known that these rules are the outgrowth of the original code promulgated in 1899. They represent an immense amount of conscientious work by the committee, and numerous suggestions have been considered at its various sessions. Experience has shown that these rules have been of great service in the electrical field, although progress has been so rapid that it is becoming an exceedingly difficult matter to keep them up to date, and at the same time meet all requirements of the profession. Members should use every effort to call attention to the importance of substituting the new rules for those which are now obsolete. In addition to the usual pamphlet edition, copies are now available bound in substantial cloth covers, which will be more convenient for desk use. Further details are given in the advertising section of this issue."
"Although the territory now supplied by the Duquesne Light Company was already covered by the distribution system of another company, there seemed to be room for further business for a central station securing the advantages of more uniform regulation and distributing directly from the center of gravity of its load, thus obviating the first cost, the maintenance, and the losses of long transmission lines. Work was begun on June 28, 1906, and by October 5, the power station and distribution system were far enough completed to start regular 24-hour service. During the following six months the service increased so rapidly that the station is now heavily loaded and running on an excellent load-factor. The service consists of residential and commercial lighting and power, and these merge into a load having an exceptionally long hour evening peak and a fairly even day load. The 60-cycle generators are wound three phase, star connected, and the distribution is partly underground and partly overhead to standard 2200-volt transformers, which in turn are connected to 110/220-volt secondaries."
"As probably in nine cases out of ten, papers presented before the Institute are illustrated with cuts of various kinds, it may not be amiss here to make a few suggestions in regard to the copy for cuts intended to illustrate a paper or a discussion. The cuts used in the Institute Proceedings and Transactions are of three kinds; half-tones, line-cuts, and wax-cuts."
"For the benefit of those who desire to present papers before the Institute during the coming year and who may not be wholly familiar with the rules and customs of the Institute in such matters, the following explanation is given."
"The regular monthly meeting of Toledo Section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held Friday evening, September 6, 1907, at the Boody House. In the absence of Chairman Nagel, Secretary Geo. E. Kirk presided."
"At a regular meeting of the Board of Directors held in the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, Friday, September 27, 1907, at 3:30 p.m., the following 60 Associates were elected:"
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"The following Members were transferred from the grade of Associate by the Board of Directors at the meeting held July 26, 1907. This notice was inadvertently omitted from the August Proceedings."
"Recommended for transfer by the Board of Examiners, September 20, 1907. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Mr. William Joshua Phelps died on September 3, at the Grace Hospital, Detroit, of inflammation of the brain, having undergone a mastoid operation on August 28. Mr. Phelps was born in Elmwood, Ill., Nov. 19, 1867. He was a graduate of Knox College, Galesburg, Ill., with degrees of A.B., and A.M. His first work was in connection with the mines of the Elmwood Coal Company, Elmwood, Ill. This involved making maps of all underground work to comply with a new law; installing an electrical pump and generating plant, on account of the unfavorable dip of the vein, the survey for the bore hole being made under rather difficult conditions, which at that period involved some original work. Later, he was retained by the city of Asheville, N. C., to examine and report on the street lighting system. In February, 1897, he began working on the incandescent electric lamps which have since become known under the trade name “Hylo.” This work was recognized by a silver medal in 1900, from Paris, and by a report of the Franklin Institute in 1903. The commerical turn-down electric lamp is now regarded as a permanent and useful appliance in electric lighting. This arrangement so common now as to be standard, involved a great deal of study and experiment by Mr. Phelps before it became practicable; indeed it was due to his persistent experiment and causing of experiments by manufacturers at his expense that made possible the low candle-power filament of long life and good efficiency. Mr. Phelps was also the inventor of the Phelps motorless flasher, which has proven to be of great use in the electrical advertising field. He also did considerable useful work in thermopiles, thermostats, and resistance metals. Mr. Phelps was elected an Associate of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, March 25, 1896."
"The following volumes have been received from the McGraw Publishing Company and placed in the Library of the Institute: ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION OF WATER POWER. A descriptive treatise from the standpoint of the engineer and financier. By Alton D. Adams. Cloth. 335 pages, illustrated. New York, McGraw Publishing Co. Price $3 net."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"On the seventh day of July, 1906, there was put into operation the first of the transmission lines of the Niagara, Lockport and Ontario Power Company. This event marks the inauguration of one of the first undertakings in the matter of distributing Niagara power over a large section of country, and the beginning of an enterprise which is one of the most important, and in some respects the most important, of its kind anywhere in the world."
"With a large number of the very high voltage transmission systems being planned at present, the information readily available in regard to capacity, inductance, etc., of transmission lines, is not sufficient to pass upon some of the important questions which necessarily will be brought up. Below are given, therefore, the equations from which these constants can be determined."
"From the paper it is evident that the telephone wire plant consists of the conducting wires joining points distant from each other, and a large amount of auxiliary apparatus pertaining thereto. This distinguishes the telephone wire plant from that part of the plant which is composed of switchboards, telephones, transmitters, and the various classes of apparatus associated therewith."
"The object of this paper is to raise for discussion the question of grounding the neutral, a question that continually confronts the engineer operating an alternating-current generating, transmitting, or distributing system. The writer wishes to consider this question from the viewpoint of the operating engineer, since it is naturally he who is most interested."
"The chief circumstance which led to the grounding of the neutral of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company's high-tension system was the serious nature of cable burn-outs. As a rule the detectors gave indication of a ground on one leg of the system from five to thirty minutes before the circuit-breaker opened, but on account of the large number of feeders connected it was practically impossible to isolate the damaged feeder before the short-circuit occurred. In a total of twelve operating burn-outs, the grounded cable was located butt wice in time to prevent trouble."
"During the consideration of the design of one high-tension installation, the question of grounding the neutral was investigated, and resulted in a decision to ground the neutral points of the generators through a limiting resistance. It was my privilege to contribute to that design and to recommend that this resistance be omitted. The reasons for grounding, the reasons for and against the resistance, and facts relatively to operation covering a period of over two years may therefore be of interest in connection with this discussion."
"While this issue is on the press, the annual meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers is being held in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building. The address of President Hutton at the opening session, Tuesday evening, December 3, was entitled “The Mechanical Engineer and the Function of the Engineering Society”. The twenty-three years' experience of the author as secretary of the American Society, followed by a year in the presidential chair, has thoroughly qualified him to discuss the various functions of a national engineering organization. The first portion of his address is devoted to specialization in engineering in which he enumerates thirteen different branches which are usually considered as being the more important. No doubt his definitions will in many instances be criticized, yet the classification has been so carefully worked out, and is so comprehensive, that it will be exceedingly valuable as a guide to those who are in doubt as to the requirements of an “engineer”. When we consider the doubts existing twenty-five years ago as to the status of the electrical engineer, it is certainly encouraging to read the closing sentence of the definition of the profession: “His field is very definite”. In his arguments for the appreciation of a national engineering organization, President Hutton shows most emphatically the thoughtful care he has bestowed upon the duties of the office he held so creditably for nearly a quarter century. How to make the society of the greatest value to the membership was the problem continually before him. Equally urgent was the task of convincing the non-member that even from a selfish standpoint it was his duty to join. He might well have added that to be considered a responsible mechanical engineer his name must be found in the official catalogue. Among other functions of the society treated in this admirable address, are the location and composition of conventions, technical visits, publications and the valuable work of committees. He does not look for successful local meetings confined to members, but proposes a plan for independent self-governing sections, which shall be affiliated with the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, to which non-members shall be eligible, upon a plan very similar to that which has been in practical operation in the Schenectady Section of the Institute. While President Hutton's address was prepared with special reference to mechanical engineers, it is of general interest to the entire engineering profession, and all who are actively engaged in society work will find it exceedingly instructive."
"In view of the fact that according to the printed records of the Institute, the first steps towards its formation were taken in April, 1884, it may seem premature for me to-night to talk even twenty-five minutes about twenty-five years. But we are on the verge of 1908, and the Institute was already in existence in the minds of its advocates and friends in 1883, long before we circulated for signature the “call to arms” now hanging on the walls of the headquarters in the beautiful new home on Thirty-ninth street, New York. I had the honor to assist Dr. N. S. Keith in the preparation of the famous April circular and to secure many of the notable signatures to it. It fell equally to my lot to prepare and issue the first volume of Transactions and to make the first secretarial report. I have never enjoyed the confidence of the Institute sufficiently to be trusted as its treasurer, but I have been elected to every other office in its gift and may therefore venture to discuss it, on your invitation, from the inside and its various other aspects."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Advertisements."
"Advertisements."
"Advertisements."
"In November, 1900, the Commonwealth Electric Company of Chicago in one portion of its territory put into commercial service the first extensive system of four-wire, three-phase distribution at 4000–2300 volts. This 60-cycle system was soon installed in all the company's outlying and suburban territory, and has since grown to such an extent that the total length of three-phase or equivalent line of feeders to-day aggregates 525 miles, of which 55 miles is underground, the remainder overhead. The neutral of this 60-cycle system has always been connected solidly to ground."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The new Standards Committee has under consideration the preparation of supplements for the recently adopted Standardization Rules in order that the rules and their appendices may be made of more use and value to engineers in general."
"The number of papers offered at the annual convention of the Institute is growing rapidly from year to year. As a consequence the editing and printing of the advance copies is becoming more and more difficult, as most of the manuscripts are not submitted until a very late date. This condition is not only unfair to the editing staff, but also defeats one of the main objects of the advance copies — to give opportunity for consideration of the papers in advance of the convention."
"During the senior year much was done to impress upon the students the desirability of an apprenticeship course. The professors recommended it, the technical press, and especially the representatives of the manufacturing companies urged it. After some consideration, for certain peculiar reasons I decided to take the course as offered by the Allis-Chalmers Company at their Cincinnati plant."
"The meeting of October 24 was called to order at 7:40 p.m. with Mr. T. C. Oehne Jr. presiding. After the usual routine business, Mr. Souther read the report of the committee on furnishing the new A.I.E.E. rooms in Chapin Hall, and an assessment was levied on each member for that purpose. The time of meeting was changed to the first and third Thursdays of every month to avoid conflicting with the Civil Engineering Society. At the suggestion of Mr. Nichols, a committee was appointed to arrange for a banquet to promote better acquaintance between the juniors and seniors of the Branch."
"Meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, Friday, October 11, 1907. President Stott called the meeting to order at 8:20 o'clock, and then delivered his"
"The International Electrotechnical Commission has been organized as recommended by the Saint Louis Congress in order that a permanent and authoritative body might be called upon to act in determining certain questions that have heretofore been passed upon by international congresses. The selection of a national committee for the United States to cooperate with the commission was delegated to the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the appointments have now been made as follows: Elihu Thomson, Lynn, Mass, president."
"The two hundred and twenty-second meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-Ninth street, New York, Friday November 8, 1907. President Stott called the meeting to order at 8:20 p.m."
"Mr. Harold Morecroft, instructor at Syracuse University for the last two years, is now at Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, in charge of the electrical laboratory."
"Ernst Danielson died in Westeras, Sweden, in August last. He was born January 19, 1866, in Voxna; studied at Upsala, and, in 1883, was admitted as apprentice at the Arboga works of the Stockholm Electrical Co. In 1884 he entered the Technical High School at Stockholm, returning, after passing his final examinations in 1887, to the Arboga works. He came to the United States in 1890 and was first associated with the Wenström Consolidated Dynamo and Motor Co. of Baltimore, and afterwards with the Thomson-Houston Co., of Lynn, Mass, which later consolidated with the Edison Co., of Schenectady, forming the present General Electric Co., where he carried out a large amount of exceedingly responsible work. In 1892 he was chief engineer of the Allmanna Svenska Elektriska Aktiebolaget, of Westeras, Sweden. In 1895 he left that company to take up a consulting engineering practice in Sweden; preparing at the request of Dr. De Laval, proposals for utilizing the water power of the Trollhattan Falls. During the winter of 1897–8, Mr. Danielson again visited America, also most of the prominent electrical installations of Switzerland and Italy. In 1900 he was appointed Technical Director of the Allmanna Svenska Elektriska Aktiebolaget of Westeras, Sweden, cocupying this position until 1903, when failing health compelled him to delegate most of his work to others. Mr. Danielson was also for some time chairman of the Swedish Institution of Civil Engineers; a member of the Royal Academy of Science, a member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers of Great Britain. He was elected an Associate of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, June 27, 1895."
"The following volumes have been received and placed in the Library of the Institute; ELECTRIC WIRING, DIAGRAMS AND SWITCHBOARDS. By Newton Harrison, E. E. 272 pages. New York, The Norman W. Henley Publishing Company. Price $1.50."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The central station system under consideration is typical of those in service throughout the country, serving the larger centers of population and including adjacent suburban districts within a radius of upwards of fifty miles from the main generating station."
"A decision as to the use of three one-phase transformers or one three-phase transformer should take into consideration all local conditions. The five disadvantages enumerated by Mr. Peck will in some cases be so great as to prohibit the use of three-phase transformers; in other cases these disadvantages may be negligible."
"I consider Mr. Jackson's paper an interesting discussion of a very important topic. It is, as Mr. Jackson admits, purely a theoretical discussion of the amount of protection which may be expected from an overhead grounded wire. Many transmission line operators believe that this overhead grounded wire has no virtue; others believe that it has a great deal of virtue. I expect that there are representatives of both camps present and I hope the discussion will be complete."
"Mr. Chesney points out one thing that should be considered in two ways, the extra floor space required. It is true that if one considers the space taken by the condenser outfit for cooling the oil and the extra pumping apparatus necessary, more floor space may be required, but that extra floor space can usually be found in most stations. The space necessary for the cooling apparatus, the pump and condenser, is not so great as the space occupied by the transformer, and they can usually be put away in some corner in the station. Also in several cases I have found it advisable to install this cooling coil, not in a part of the station but, say, in the tail-race, using the water from the turbine to do the cooling. There is not, therefore, the complication of extra pumping facilities; there would be one set of pumps similar to those that are ordinarily used for forced water circulation in a water-cooled transformer."
"I notice that Mr. Blackwell speaks of the connections being simple. I think this is a very serious matter and one that is not given the consideration it warrants. We try to make a system flexible by putting in all sorts of tie connections; then in order to save space and save cost we put in knife-switches. By putting in the knife-switches we court just what we are trying to avoid. The knife-switch may be opened by mistake. If it is opened under load by mistake there is a big arc, which may be whipped across and involve all the adjacent apparatus. Therefore, if possible, I think we should always try to keep each individual circuit entirely distinct, with no tie, and if ties are used we should use enclosed switches; that is, all switches in the form of knife-switches must be put in between barriers in order to confine the arc."
"In presenting this paper to the Institute I wish it to be clearly understood that no attempt has been made to say anything or do anything that would be discourteous to the manufacturers of rubber-covered wire. The main object of the paper is to compare a large variety of rubber-covered wires, especially with reference to power-factor and dielectric loss. So far as I know these tests have not been applied commercially to any extent here."
"Any paper which tells in a simple way how to calculate the characteristics of two machines in parallel is valuable, especially when the equations or diagrams give the synchronizing power. From this we can determine the stability and the natural period of the machine, in other words we can predict something about its hunting tendencies. I doubt, however, if this paper will give this information and I ask Professor Brooks for some explanations. Professor Brooks uses the reactance and the resistance in the total circuit. It must be remembered that machines having the same synchronous impedance, which means substantially the same synchronous reactance, have widely different characteristics. For instance, a machine of definite pole construction and a given synchronous impedance may have an angular displacement of the armature at full load of 15 degrees, whereas another machine of the round rotor type having substantially uniform magnetic reluctance may have 30 degrees displacement with the same impedance. It is obvious therefore, that any calculations based upon the reactance are of little value in determining its characteristics."
"Have experiments been made to determine the relative importance of the three kinds of leakage found in induction motors? 1. The leakage across the slots. 2. The leakage across the gap, or so-called zigzag leakage. 3. Leakage in the end-connections of the stator winding."
"This paper is quite special in its scope and is valuable for the information it gives, but is not apt to be fruitful of general discussion. I have been interested to note during the reading of the paper, and also in my observation during the last few years of this signal development, of the general course of that development and the effect of the electrification of railways on signal work. At first on the ordinary steam road, the only electricity used in connection with the track system was the small amount employed in connection with the signals. The use of the track, however, for carrying direct current for railway motors has caused some voltages to be introduced which begin to affect the signal circuit and they have to be taken care of in ways which when they are worked out and explained seem simple and adequate, but did not seem so simple when the difficulties first arose. The introduction of single-phase alternating current and the use of the rails for conducting this current again introduces a new kind of disturbance in the signal system. It is interesting to note how the signal work has followed these various intrusions of greater currents. One rail was set aside for signal work, and later on the signal system adapted itself to the condition existing when both rails were used for propulsion current. The signal engineer follows the example of the railway engineer and gets into alternating current; if the alternating current in the railway is bad for his work he cures the evil by adopting alternating current himself. He solves the frequency question by going to a high frequency instead of a low one. This also illustrates the amount of electrical engineering which can be applied to what most of us who have not come in contact with this work at all have probably considered a very simple sort of thing, but the grade of engineering work and the knowledge and ingenuity required in devising these systems, with the remarkable reliability and excellent way in which they perform their work, is something to elicit our admiration. There is still another source from which other currents may come and affect the signals, which I understand has been characteristic of one installation, and that is when the tracks were bonded together for the operation of the railway these track connections formed an inviting path for currents from adjacent railways which were strolling through the earth, hunting convenient paths by which to get home, and these currents got into the tracks, and the signal apparatus producing some unexpected combinations of signals. This illustrates again the interference between different kinds of currents and the need of the signal engineer to be alert for their avoidance."
"The possibility of regenerating power with single-phase motors is one of the valuable features of the single-phase system and one which will be of great assistance in bringing the motor into the field of heavy railway work. The possibility of regenerating at various speeds is well illustrated in Mr. Cooper's paper, but it is interesting to note that there are two points in the system at which the speed can be varied; first, by changing the tap on the transformer from which the exciting motor obtains its excitation; secondly, by changing the tap on the transformer to which the generating motors are connected. These two actions may be independent, giving twice as many steps as there are taps. With this arrangement a very large number of taps on the transformer is not necessary."
"This paper describes a construction suitable for power transmission where the utmost reliability is not necessary, but where cheapness is needed to make the installation feasible. It is desirable in all such discussions to give some clue of what is understood by “reliable” or “satisfactory” operation. In listening to statements of satisfactory operation of transmission lines, it will be found that “satisfactory operation” is a flexible expression; for what may seem to one engineer under certain conditions as satisfactory, may to another engineer, seem very unsatisfactory. For instance, the chief engineer of a large city told me a few days ago that in his city the power has not been off the low-tension bus-bar in fifteen years. In such a case a number of shutdowns averaging one shutdown per year, of five minutes or less duration, would be unsatisfactory operation; because if it should happen there probably would immediately be a legislative committee to investigate why it happened that some thousands of citizens were caught by the failure of the power in elevators midway between the floors of office buildings. In another instance, in a transmission line supplying power to a mining district, it may be perfectly satisfactory operation if the number of shutdowns averages not more than two per month, with perhaps a total duration of an average of twenty minutes per month. That may be perfectly satisfactory in that case."
"In this paper Mr. Young gives a discussion of the relative economy of the different transmission systems. In bygone years, considerable discussion took place on this point, and it was shown that the three-phase system requires only 75 per cent. of the copper of a single-phase system or a four-wire two-phase system, on the basis of equal maximum electrostatic stress. With the change of industrial conditions, such conclusions will have to be revised. When the matter was discussed before, when the statements were correct, because in those early days all electrical circuits were operated as isolated systems without grounded neutral, and in that case the voltage which came into consideration was the voltage from conductor to conductor, across two insulators, and in that case the three-phase system has an advantage of 25 per cent. in copper."
"Without knowing what Mr. Thomas would set forth in his paper, I find that I could take paragraph 4 of his recommendations as a basis for the contribution to the Institute which I make this evening."
"Power plant design, in its modern development, is controlled solely by the specific application of general laws modified and moulded to suit special requirements. To attempt the construction of a comprehensive ruling from the results of a particular line of investigation in some particular plant, and then to advise the general use of such ruling as conducive to economical operation, would cause confusion, possibly resulting in a wholesale rejection of the good with the bad. However, the value of specific results and their publication lie in the opening up of a line of technical thought, or in adding information to some subject, from which specific deductions or particular application may be made."
"The writer gave approximate rules for determining the rise in voltage, due to interrupting a given current, at a meeting of the Pacific Coast Transmission Association in 1902 and before the Electrical Congress at St. Louis in 1904. The rule given was, E = 200 I where I is the actual value of the current in amperes at the time of interruption. This does not exactly agree with the rule given by Mr. Berg. The important fact shown is that the higher the voltage the smaller the excessive strains due to switching, etc. The approximate rule will undoubtedly explain many things happening on lower voltage systems that are charged to lightning, etc."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"One of the burning questions of central station operation is the equalization of the day and night load. A similar problem exists in various manufacturing and business concerns, with this difference, however, that instead of a day and night period, it is the change of seasons which is to be considered. Those who are familar with Institute work realize that its apparent period of activity is between September and the annual convention. This is quite true; but meanwhile certain work has necessarily been laid aside because of the pressing importance of providing for meetings, each of which brings its unfailing quota of preparation, and is immediately followed by a train of events which fills the gap until the next date. Outside of stenography and typewriting, a staff trained in Institute work cannot be immediately supplemented in case of an emergency. Nearly every civilized organization has a vacation season, which in the case of the Institute begins immediately after the annual convention. All through the winter the papers and discussions which have been put in type are again proofread and then electrotyped. The scattered contributions from various parts of the world are grouped as far as possible with the papers to which they pertain; the final work of re-paging is begun, and the printing started. Many members evidently labor under the impression that this should be done on the second day of January, and because it is not that an inquiry should be made as to when the Transactions will be delivered."
"In accordance with Article IX, Sections 65–74 of the new Constitution, the local organizations heretofore known as Branches, may, by petitioning, be admitted as Sections of the Institute. By way of simplifying matters, the terms University Branches and Student Meetings will be merged; both of these Sub-sections will hereafter be known as University Branches. In brief, there will be but two kinds of local organizations — Sections and university branches. A Section may be restricted to a town, or its activities may extend over all the adjacent territory for which the town is a natural electrical center. These details will be modified here and there by local conditions, the final decision resting with the Sections' Committee and the Board of Directors. The jurisdiction of a University Branch is, in general, confined immediately to the university or college whose name it bears. In order that these jurisdictions may be clearly understood, it is the intention of the Sections' Committee to publish in a future issue of the Proceedings an outline map of North America shewing the geographical jurisdiction of every Section and University Branch. With the closing of the universities and colleges for the academic year 1906–1907, and the beginning of the heated term, the Sections and university branches will, as usual, suspend active operations until the autumn of 1907. Section and University Branch activity will be renewed immediately after the first reguular meeting of the Institute in New York on the second Friday of October, and the reports of meetings will again be bulletined in the Proceedings."
"Though the time at our disposal will not permit a detailed consideration of all the points of interest in connection with this tour, it is hoped that by touching briefly on the things of greatest importance some idea may be conveyed of the progress in the electrical art made by European electrical engineers."
"Baltimore Section Thirty members of the Baltimore Section held a meeting at the Johns Hopkins University on June 21, 1907. John B. Whitehead presided. The following officers were elected to serve during the ensuing year: John B. Whitehead, chairman; Charles G. Edwards, secretary; Charles E. Phelps, Jr., P. O. Keilholtz, H. A. Foster, H. W. Peck, W. D. Young, executive committee, Mr. P. O. Keilholtz read a paper on the “Progress in Low-Frequency, Alternating-Current, Incandescent Lighting.”"
"At a regular meeting of the Board of Directors held in the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, Friday, June 21, 1907, at 3:30 p. m., the following 271 Associates were elected:"
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"Mr. Roger Mason, electrical engineer is now with the Bond Electric Company, of San Francisco, Cal."
"The following volumes have been received from the McGraw Publishing Company and placed in the Library of the Institute:"
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Advertisements."
"In August 1889, a report was made by one of the present writers1 to the Edison Electric Light Co., on “The Heating of Conductors by Electric Currents.” The report was published in the minutes of the convention of the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies, at Niagara Falls, August 1889. It contained a large number of measurements of the temperature elevations of active conductors supported in wooden moulding, and in free air, within doors and without. A further report was made in 18932 upon the temperature elevations of electric-light cables. The research reported in the present paper has been undertaken to extend the scope of the above measurements, and also to increase the precision of the results previously obtained. In the measurements of 1889 and 1893, above referred to, the temperature-coefficient of resistivity of copper wires was taken as 0.388 per cent. per degree centigrade of temperature elevation; whereas it is now taken by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers as 0.42 per cent. per degree centigrade from and at 0° cent.3 Again, the law of thermal radiation employed was that of Dulong and Petit;4 whereas the law of radiation generally adopted at this time is that of Stefan.5"
"When two synchronous machines are in operation as generator and motor, the amount of power demanded of the motor causes it to assume a definite phase relation to the generator, somewhat dependent also upon their relative excitation and upon the impedance of the circuit including the two machines. When such machines are operating in parallel there is theoretically no power to be transferred, but this ideal condition can only exist when the excitation and phase relation of the machines are identical; if these differ, even by a small amount, transfer of power must take place between generator and motor. The power required by the motor causes a certain vector difference; conversely, the presence of a vector difference points to a definite transfer of power from one machine to the other."
"Probably no form of insulating material for wires has been so frequently discussed as india rubber and its component ingredients, known commercially as “rubber.” Very many tests have been devised to determine the percentage of rubber and other materials, and especially the amount of fine para."
"The main object of this paper is to describe the methods which have been in use in the development of lightning apparatus, so that some or all of these methods may be adopted or recommended as standard in the investigation of the value of any particular apparatus. As an introduction, it is pertinent to point out the differences and identities in the operation of the arrester in test as compared with its operation in actual service. Generators, motors, arc lights, practically all electrical apparatus except lightning-arresters — are tested under the conditions, under which they are to operate. The lightning-arrester in service comes into action only intermittently, with long intervals between operations, and each operation is under conditions more or less different from the previous ones. It protects, fails, or is destroyed according to its adaptation to meet the imposed conditions. The arrester may operate for years before it encounters conditions which it is incapable of meeting. The conditions which caused the failure are usually unknown, therefore little or no progress can be made in the design without studying the actual conditions which caused the failure of the arrester. Since this cannot be done at present with cloud lightning, we must experiment with artificial lightning in the laboratory until this condition causing failure is found. Simply noting whether an arrester-fails and then making an adjustment, elimination, or addition of parts of the arrester is a cut-and-try method and has already been carried to the limit of its efficacy in the development of protective apparatus."
"Introductory. The question as to what tests for commercial lightning-arresters might be properly incorporated in the standardization rules of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers has lately been considered by the Standardization Committee. The committee finally decided not to adopt any lightning tests in the new edition of the rules adopted June 21, 1907. However, the sub-committee on lightning-arresters hopes to get a full consideration of the subject for the benefit of a later Standardization Committee. The present paper, together with another paper on the same subject by Mr. E. E. F. Creighton, is prepared at the request of the sub-committee to serve as a basis for discussion. As no lightning-arrester tests have ever been included in the standardization rules the initial treatment should now receive especially careful attention."
"It is generally recognized that the worst disturbances to an electrical transmission system from lightning are due to the unbalancing of the circuit-elements after the passage to ground of the initial lightning charge."
"Transformer testing has already received a great deal of attention, and considering the number and variety of articles upon the subject which have appeared, the ground would seem to be quite thoroughly covered, so thoroughly in fact that there would at first sight appear little more to add. But in view of the changes which have been constantly taking place and the rapid advance in transformer design, a general discussion of the subject at this time may be of value. Experience also has led to the adoption of certain methods in commercial transformer testing which for various reasons have proved satisfactory, so that a description of these with their advantages and short-comings will perhaps prove of some interest."
"Link Insulators. Suspension and Strain Type. The transmission of large amounts of power over long distances has reached such proportions that the voltage necessary to transmit this energy makes the problem of line insulation difficult. The so-called “pin” type of insulator has been enlarged to meet the greater demands until it has approached, if not already passed, the limits of good construction. Mr. Buck has given this matter a great deal of study in his high-potential transmission work, and being dissatisfied with the mechanical features of a pin insulator, has devised a method of line construction involving the use of “suspension” and “strain” insulators. The suspension insulators support the line from above, hanging vertically beneath the cross-arm (or other point of suspension). The strain insulators are used at turns and at intervals of say, every mile, to support and “anchor” the line, also as pull-off insulators on curves and to dead-end lines."
"The great economies in the cost of generating power which have been obtained in the large steam turbine stations and hydroelectric plants, are leading to the general abandonment of small generating stations and the increase in transmission distances in order to distribute power over a large territory. In other words, 100,000 h.p. can be generated in one station and transmitted 100 miles cheaper than it can be generated and distributed from ten 10,000-h.p. stations near the center of load. On account of this tendency toward the concentration of generating units, the overhead transmission line has assumed a position of great importance in electrical installations, and the same permanency and reliability is demanded of it as of the generating station itself. The wooden pole line of the past has been practically abandoned and steel construction has been substituted."
"The idea of this paper is to touch briefly on the salient points of interest in connection with high-voltage switching practice and if possible to bring out in the discussion the opinions of various engineers interested in this line of work, relative to such points as have not been definitely settled by standard practice as being the best solution of the problem."
"In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, we present the following report of the more important features of history of the Library of the Institute for the year ending April 30, 1907; the present condition of the several funds from which the support of the Library is directly derived; its present status as one of the associated libraries in the new Engineering Societies Building; and plans for the future."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Experience in the actual occupation of the suite of offices in the Engineers' Building shows that when all details are finished the quarters will be entirely satisfactory. The rooms are spacious and light, with a fine view of the city in every direction, as well as Long Island, New Jersey, and the North and East Rivers. At the first glance, many think the rooms are unnecessarily large, but it should be remembered that the building has been planned for the future as well as the present. During one afternoon of the first week of occupancy, the Board of Examiners, the Edison Medal Committee, and a sub-committee on Standardization Rules, met simultaneously in the Committee Room, the Reception Room; and the Board Room Under previous conditions this would have been impossible: As already announced, the actual transfer from the Liberty Street quarters was made on Saturday, February 2, so that on the following Monday, the new offices were occupied. The moving of the library was interfered with by the heavy snow which began falling on Monday. After the books were removed, the stacks were taken down and re-erected in the stack room on the twelfth floor. In order to prevent confusion care must be exercised in replacing the books upon the proper shelves, so that much more time is necessarily consumed in this work. Arrangements were made for the temporary use of another reference library while the change was being made, so that visitors have not been neglected. The selection and purchase of furniture and carpets, and the contract for moving the entire equipment has been in charge of the Library Committee. The work has been carried out satisfactorily in every detail by the office staff."
"THE first Institute meeting held in the main auditorium was that of January 25. The subject of the paper, the standing of the authors, Messrs. Stillwell and Putnam, the general interest in the electric railway situation, combined with a natural desire to test the practical qualities of the hall, served to attract an audience of about twelve hundred, the largest number ever attending a meeting of the Institute. The seating capacity of this auditorium is one thousand, which may, however, be slightly increased in the future by an additional row of seats. Seats may also be temporarily placed at the four double doors in the corridor which completely encircles the hall. The acoustic properties of the room are fine, the coat-room accommodations ample, and every possible detail has been carefully worked out. Judging from the experience of one meeting engineers are to be congratulated upon the successful solution of a problem which has always confronted them in New York as well as in many smaller cities. The close attention which was given to the words of all the speakers was sufficient evidence of the interest shown by the auditors."
"OCCASIONAL objections are raised against the constitutional requirement that applicants for transfer from the grade of Associate to that of Member shall have reached the age of twenty-seven years. There was no restriction of this character in the constitution which was superseded in 1901. It was however found in practice, that young men were prone to apply for transfer immediately after graduation, and that the time of the Board of Examiners was occupied to an unnecessary extent in considering these applications which could not be recommended on account of lack of electrical engineering experience of a proper quality. It was recognized that there might be occasional exceptions to the rule, but they have proved to be exceedingly rare. Other engineering societies have fixed a similar limit at the age of thirty years."
"The plant described herein is the steam power station of the Twin City Rapid Transit Company, which operates in parallel with a water power station of 10,000 h.p. capacity located approximately 1000 ft. away. Together they furnish power to ten electric railway sub-stations, which are equipped as follows:"
"The attention of all members and friends of the Institute is called to the following resolutions passed by the Board of Directors at its meeting of January 25, 1907:"
"University of Arkansas At a meeting of this Branch in the Engineers' Hall on February 6, 1907, attended by eighteen members and visitors, a general discussion was held on the Institute paper entitled “On the Substitution of the Electric Motor for the Steam Locomotive.” Professor Olney then delivered a lecture on “Electroplating,” illustrating his subject by nickelplating various metallic articles submitted by the audience."
"Meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, Friday, January 25, 1907. President Sheldon called the meeting to order at 8:00 o'clock."
"The Library committee of the Institute is charged this year with the execution of several important tasks. This will be better understood by examination of the following list of its subcommittees, some of which have been active since the opening of the Institute fiscal year, while others now find their work beginning with the actual removal of the Library to its new home:"
"The High-tension transmission committee has arranged with the Committee on Papers and Meetings to hold a special meeting of the Institute in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York, on Friday, March 22, 1907, at 8 o'clock. This meeting, to be held under the auspices of the High-tension transmission committee, will be devoted solely to matters relating to high-tension transmission, and the discussion will be limited to the subjects contained in the following two “Introductions to Discussion:”"
"Papers Committee, Rowland Telegraphic System and its Apparatus, by Frank M. Potts. Some Power Transmission Economics, by F. G. Baum."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"Lewis Cammann Whitehouse, who was elected an Associate April 23, 1903, while a senior at the Stevens Institute of Technology, died recently in New York City. Mr. Whitehouse was born at New Brighton, Staten Island, June 21, 1882, and studied four years at the Staten Island Academy from which he was graduated in June 1899, and entered Stevens Institute the same year."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The development of the one-phase railway motor leads to the introduction of grounded alternating-current systems, in which the current is returned over the rail. With rail-return, necessarily more or less current strays through the ground, reaching gas and water pipes, lead cables, etc. When using direct current for railroading, lead cables, etc. are protected against electrolytic corrosion by connecting them to the negative terminal of the circuit, so that the stray current enters the cable from the ground, but does not leave it; that is, the cable is always at a negative potential against ground. With alternating currents this method of protection evidently is not feasible, since the potential difference constantly reverses."
"In these days of wide and rapidly growing use of reinforced concrete and hydraulic cements in all kinds of structures, the question often comes up as to whether concrete will afford to iron and steel the same protection from stray currents of electricity that it does ordinary corrosion or rust. In the practice of investigating movements and results of currents upon under ground pipes and other structures, several instances have come to our notice where damage has been caused by electrolytic action upon metals covered or incased in concrete or Portland cement."
"The subject of earth currents caused by electric railway systems is of such importance that it is believed a few theoretical notes on the relative efficiencies of different return feeder systems in reducing stray currents will not be without interest."
"The building outlet in high-tension work has become very important and will increase in importance as higher pressures are used. A great variety of outlet arrangements have been tried, each company having a method of its own. Each arrangement has its disadvantages and all are liable to give serious trouble in case of storms. Blowing rain and snow will enter the building with the open outlet, while with the bushing it is found impractical to build with glass or porcelain to sufficient size to obtain the necessary surface resistance. Plate glass with holes through the center for the wires, which are supported on line insulators, has proved a serious menace, owing to the leakage setting fire to timber construction, and the formation of an are in metal construction."
"The faults in underground cables naturally classify themselves as follows: 1. Defects in the cable itself. 2. Injury received during installation. 3. Faulty workmanship. 4. Mechanical injury. 5. Electrolytic action. 6. Certain external injuries, the cause of which may not be conclusively established."
"Ralph D. Mershon: There is probably no other natural force amongst those with which modern engineering has to deal of which so little is intimately known as of lightning. In most engineering problems it is possible to control and reproduce at will the conditions actually existing in practice, and thus study the phenomena resulting therefrom; or, if this is not possible, there is a natural repetition of the phenomena of sufficient regularity so that they can be studied and traced back to the elements on which they depend. With lightning this is not so. The conditions existing in practice cannot be controlled, and the elements involved are so enormous, numerous, and variable that it is impossible to reproduce them. The natural repetition of phenomena is at such irregular intervals, and the phenomena, when they do occur, are apparently so erratic, due to the number and variability of the elements on which they depend, that no satisfactory searching study has been made of them."
"The following article is an “Introduction” to a discussion to take place at a meeting of the Institute in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York, Friday, March 22, 1907, at 8 p.m. It is not intended to be a formal or complete paper, but to serve merely as a basis or framework for discussion on the subject with which it deals. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in this discussion may do so by being present at the meeting, or if this is not possible by sending in a written “Contribution.”"
"General The particular problem to be considered in this discussion is the following: wanted, direct-current power of approximately constant voltage; for instance, for railways 500 to 700 volts, for an incandescent lighting system, 100 to 275 volts, for an electrolytic process, any direct-current voltage. Given as a source of power, a long-distance alternating-current transmission system, which may be either 25 or 60 cycles, may have a varying voltage at point of delivery, may have the variation occur either on account of the load taken by our particular station or independent thereof and may have a somewhat variable frequency. Problem, what shall be used for making the desired transformation; synchronous converters? motor-generator sets with synchronous motors? or motor-generator sets with induction motors?"
"The following article is an “Introduction” to a discussion to take place at a meeting of the Institute in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York, Friday, March 22, 1907, at 8 p.m. It is not intended to be a formal or complete paper, but to serve merely as a basis or framework for discussion on the subject with which it deals. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in this discussion may do so by being present at the meeting, or if this is not possible by sending in a written “Contribution.”"
"With the increased capacity of individual units of alternating-current generators it is natural that the potential for which these generators are wound should be continually increased. It commends itself to limit the current capacity of generators, as the distribution and conduction of large currents from the generators to the switchboards is cumbersome and expensive. Historically, the increase in voltage with the increased capacity of individual units and of power plants may be briefly summarized. The Niagara generators of approximately 3500 kw. capacity, put into operation about ten years ago, were designed for 2200 volts. The 3500 kw. generators of the Metropolitan Street Railway Company, of New York, were designed for 6600 volts. The 5000-kw. generators installed in the stations of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company, in New York, were designed for 11,000 volts. The large generators for the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company, of 7500 kw., were designed for 11,000 volts also."
"Wm. J. Hammer: If you go back to the first efforts made by inventors in the field of incandescent lighting, you will find that they were mainly devoted to metal filaments, metallic oxides, and rare earths. Subsequently, the pendulum swung in the other direction, and with the development and perfection of the carbon-filament lamp, attention was concentrated upon that. With the exception of a few inventors, work on the metallic filament was at a standstill. Now the pendulum has swung to its original position and we are having this remarkable development in the metal-filament lamp, which bids fair to displace the carbon-filament lamp; but who shall say that perhaps later the pendulum will not again swing in the other direction? Thus does history repeat itself."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Following a succession of accidents to fast railway trains last winter, statements were made that the public demanded the highest possible speed. This might be modified by adding the words “consistent with safety.” Another important requirement is the maintenance of the advertised schedule, so that the traveler may plan his journey with a reasonable possibility of making the necessary connections. There are many reasonable excuses for delay. An open drawbridge is one of them. The adoption of electricity as a motive power makes it feasible to utilize tunnels to a greater extent than has heretofore been desirable, and bridges will no doubt be superseded by them, where the traffic warrants the change. Every precaution is being taken to guard against disaster upon the many subterranean lines now in operation, as well as those which are to be installed in the near future, but there is well-founded apprehension that the people are confronted with the possibility of a frightful disaster, which human foresight cannot always guard against. Single lives are daily being sacrificed without attracting comment; but when a number are killed and wounded the accident becomes a catastrophe, and if due to carelessness or neglect there is at once an unreasonable clamor, which frequently passes away without leading to any important improvement in conditions. The electrical engineer is now an important factor in every branch of industrial progress. The makeshift policy of pioneer days has been supplanted with a demand for the best possible construction. As an industry develops, better methods are introduced, and the general interchange of ideas, the criticism of proposed departures from current practice, should lead to continual improvement. The convention season now passing has been unusually active. No epoch-making invention has been brought out, but every department of electrical industry has shown an advance that is in the direction of public convenience, economy, and safety."
"Although there was an informal gathering at the Milwaukee Convention in 1906 of members interested in local organizations, and an interesting exchange of views, no advance preparations had been made, and the representation of the Sections was not as general as was the case at the Niagara Falls convention in June. With the cooperation of the Board of Directors, Chairman Spencer made a special effort to inform the officers of the Sections that they were entitled to representation by their chairmen, and an appropriation was made to meet the cost of transportation, The result was very gratifying, as over twenty officers and delegates were present; distant points being especially well represented. There has been a distinct growth in the number of original papers presented at local meetings, possibly due to a better understanding of the policy of the Institute in sending to the Sections advance copies of papers read at the New York meetings. These are intended more especially for use where local papers cannot be obtained, yet they are frequently abstracted at the meetings of many of the largest Sections, and valuable discussions have thus been elicited. The extraordinary development of the Schenectady Section was interestingly told by Mr. Rushmore. Through its extension of meeting privileges to non-members upon payment of a small fee, the Section has been self-supporting, and carries over a surplus of $773.58 to begin next season's work. It has been the opinion of many that the plan of local membership would check the legitimate growth of the Institute: this does not appear to be the result, judging from the increase of the Institute membership in Schenectady. The same argument might be used against the publication of Institute papers in the technical press, and with still greater force. The Institute is too well established to be weakened by the broad policy of permitting its light to penetrate into every nook and corner of industrial activity. In this way its work becomes known to the greatest number, and its influence and prosperity augmented accordingly."
"The element selenium was discovered by Berzelius in 1817. It can be obtained in various forms and applied to many uses, although its peculiar properties have been generally understood for only about thirty-five years. In 1873 while experimenting with selenium as an ohmic resistance, Willoughby Smith discovered that the resistance of this metal was reduced by exposure to light. In using sticks of selenium as a resistance in an experimental telegraph circuit, he had trouble with the current varying; on investigating he found that when the cover to a box in which he had placed the selenium was closed, the current was less than with the box open. Further investigation showed that the electrical resistance of selenium varied with the amount of light falling upon it."
"The Twenty-fourth Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Cataract Hotel, Niagara Falls, N. Y., beginning Tuesday morning, June 25, and ending Friday afternoon, June 28, 1907. About 475 members and guests attended the various professional and social events. The professional papers covered a large variety of subjects, and the discussions were animated and interesting. A large number of those attending availed themselves of the courtesies extended by the local power and manufacturing companies, obtained through the efforts of an active and thoughtful local committee. Not the least enjoyable of the social events was a delightful reception and dance given under the auspices of the local committee in the ball-room of the Cataract Hotel on Thursday evening, June 27. The local committee consisted of Philip P. Barton, chairman; E. G. Acheson, H. B. Alverson, F. B. H. Paine, and W. N. Ryerson."
"Having received a number of inquiries verbally and by mail about the distribution of the Transactions for last year, it seems worth while to explain somewhat in detail the various processes occuring between the receipt of a manuscript and its final appearance in the annual bound volume. As far as Institute office routine is concerned, there are no less than twenty-two distinct operations necessary before a manuscript illustrated with cuts appears in the Proceedings. All of these operations require time, and most of them require ability, tact, and gumption. When a paper is printed in the Proceedings it bears in the upper left-hand corner of the first page the announcement: “Subject to final Revision for the Transactions.” After the Proceedings is distributed, every author receives a separate copy of his paper with the request that he approve it for final printing in the Transactions. Having received the author's approved copy, the copy is then re-read for possible typographical errors; the necessary corrections are made, and the pages sent to the foundry to be electrotyped. Virtually the same routine prevails in regard to the discussions on papers."
"Mr. Louis T. Grant has severed his connection with Grant and Co. Ltd., of Manila, P. I., and assumed the practice of consulting engineer."
"The following volumes have been received from the McGraw Publishing Company and placed in the Library of the Institute: ELECTRIC STREET RAILWAYS. A description of the generation, transmission and utilization of electric currents in connection with electric street railways. By Edwin J. Houston and A. E. Kennelly. Second edition. 373 pages, 162 illustrations. New York, McGraw Publishing Co. Price, $1 net."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The introduction of the alternating-current single-phase railway motor calling for a single-phase secondary distribution system makes it pertinent to inquire into the question of power generation and primary distribution for such systems. While the simplicity of single-phase generation and distribution is unquestioned, it is not always possible or desirable in these days of general power distribution to install a generating station and primary distribution system capable of taking care of alternating-current railway load alone, to the exclusion of synchronous converters and other receiving machinery requiring three-phase input."
"Owing to the success attending the several installations of single-phase alternating-current railway motors in this country and abroad, and the suitability of this type of motive power for the electrification of certain steam lines, the questions have been asked as to whether the 25-cycle frequency thus far universally used is the frequency best adapted for alternating-current motor design and operation, or whether the benefits obtained by the use of a lower frequency are sufficient to justify its introduction. This paper is intended to open a discussion on the relative merits of 25 cycles and a lower frequency, and will touch briefly upon the advantages and disadvantages of the present standard of 25 cycles and any proposed standard of a lower frequency."
"At the regular meeting of the Institute, on January 25 of this year, a paper was presented by Messrs. Stillwell and Putnam dealing with the electrification of steam railways and referring briefly to the question of the adoption of a standard frequency for single-phase railways. This question aroused a great deal of interest and was discussed at greater length than any other feature of the paper. The authors, while enumerating the advantages of both 25 and 15 cycles, drew the conclusion that the advantages were greatest on the side of the lower frequency, and this opinion was concurred in by most of those who discussed the matter. Many good points were brought out, but all were more or less general; and while it is obviously impossible for the Institute to standardize at this time a frequency for railways using alternating current, a free and full discussion of the matter can hardly fail to produce good results and to furnish more definite information than was available at the time the paper was presented. The arguments in favor of 25 cycles may be reduced to the following: 1. It is a standard frequency which is in use in a great many plants throughout the country. 2. It is probably better suited for general power distribution and is certainly better for lighting than 15 cycles; therefore any railroad having a 15-cycle plant for operating its road would be somewhat handicapped in power for lighting and shop purposes."
"The technical school is primarily an educational institution. The purpose is not to teach trades of any order, nor is it directly to produce business or professional men. The technical school sustains a vital relation to the profession of electrical engineering, and it cannot succeed without an understanding of that relation. On the other hand, the profession cannot use technical graduates efficiently without a knowledge of the purpose underlying their training. That both school and profession are coming to understand their relation is made evident by many signs. Among these may be mentioned the development of graduate-apprentice courses by manufacturing and operating companies, the reduction of manual training and the increase of scientific training in the schools, the formation of employment committees by both companies and schools, and the cordial relations existing between practitioners and teachers. From the first the technical school has stood for the encouragement of useful studies with a scientific foundation. At first undoubtedly too much emphasis was laid upon the practical features of the curriculum, and the attempt was made to do in the laboratory what can only be done in the factory. This and other faults are being corrected by the study of industrial conditions, and the work of the school is being increasingly appreciated by the profession generally."
"In accordance with a motion made by Dr. Steinmetz, and duly carried at the last Annual Convention of the Institute, at Milwaukee, the Standardization Rules have been revised in form and wording and in accordance with various suggestions received from members of the Institute. This work has been accomplished by the Standards Committee which has held monthly meetings beginning in September last."
"The aims in teaching electrical engineering must be in accord with the demands of the electrical industry, and with the needs of the country, broadly understood. The details of electrotechnical pedagogics should properly be discussed among the teachers themselves, but the principles and the aims should be established through close cooperation with national technical bodies, such as the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"The subject-matter of this address is not in any sense electrical in character, but the effect described was discovered as the result of electrical work and the products obtainable by it may, with advantage, be used in electrical work and machinery. Such is my excuse for offering these remarks before this Institute."
"Certain memorable opinions, recently uttered by railroad men whose creative and administrative work, and wide experience entitle them to preeminence, command attention. In March last, the New York Times contained an interview with Mr. E. H. Harriman, who discussed at length various features of the present steam railroad situation; the influence of national and state legislation; the developments, needs, and present difficulties of operation; and the vital necessity of increase of capacity, measured in its broadest terms. Expressing his individual opinion that perhaps it might be better, considered from the standpoint of the steam locomotive, if a wider gauge than the present standard had originally been adopted, he went on to say: But perhaps it is chimerical to think now of rebuilding the railroads of the entire country, and of replacing the entire railroad equipment. If so, what is the best thing? Obviously, electricity. And I believe that the railroads will have to come to that, not only to get a larger unit of motor power and of distributing it over the train load, but on account of fuel. That brings up another phase of the existing conditions. We have to use up fuel to carry our fuel, and there are certain limitations here just as much as there are in car capacity or motive power, particularly when you consider the distribution of the coal producing regions with respect to the major avenues of traffic. The great saving resulting from the use of electricity is apparent, quite aside from the matter of increasing the tractive power and the train load."
"First I wish you to join with me in an expression of our appreciation of the esteemed privilege of having with us to-night our first honorary member, and I may say one of our oldest members, Sir William Preece, who has awarded to us the distinguished honor of presiding this evening."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"On Tuesday, April 16, 1907, at three o'clock in the afternoon, the formal dedication exercises will begin in the Auditorium, 25 to 33 West Thirty-ninth street. The seating capacity being limited, it has been found necessary to restrict attendance by the issuing of invitations to past officers of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining Engineers, and distinguished guests suggested by their representatives. In the evening of April 16 there will be a reception open to all members of the three founder societies and ladies. The entire building will be thrown open for inspection. Wednesday, April 17, will be known as Founders' Day, when brief addresses will be given by representatives of the three founder organizations, followed by the presentation of medals. This will complete the formal opening ceremonies."
"Occasionally a letter of resignation is received in which the writer states that he is so situated that he cannot attend meetings, or that he reads the Institute papers in the technical journals, the inference being that he does not get the worth of his money. Statements of this nature indicate that the writer takes such a narrow view of his profession that he loses sight of one of the most important incentives to progress. If he is so isolated, he should strive in every way to keep abreast of progress in the art. If he cannot personally meet the leaders in the electrical field, he may profit by their opinions and thoughts as recorded in the printed discussions, and these may be found in their most complete form in the monthly Proceedings. No technical journal would undertake to print the complete discussions and papers of the Institute or any similar organization. The amount of matter continually pressing for publication in the Proceedings is so great that the question of selecting the most timely or important continually confronts the editor. The reading matter is. however, but a portion of the value of membership. Many leading engineers belong to the four national societies. They could purchase the Proceedings at a less cost than the annual dues. It is well understood that association with their fellows through the recognized organization gives them a professional standing second only to their own ability and experience. Requests are frequently received by the Secretary from city officials, capitalists, and lawyers for the names of electrical experts for certain purposes. These inquiries can only be met in a general way by furnishing a copy of the catalogue or directory of membership. It is for this reason that an electrical engineer should appreciate the importance of continuing his name on the list. It shows that he is recognized by his colleagues as being identified with the profession of electrical engineering. It is true that the larger proportion of the membership is not made up of independent electrical engineers. Many are associated with manufacturing or operating companies, but should they ever find occasion to change their positions they are likely to learn that membership in the institute improves their standing."
"AT the meeting of the Board of Directors, March 1, it was voted to hold the next convention at Niagara Falls, beginning on June 25 and continuing three or four days. This was the recommendation of the Committee on Papers after a careful consideration of various proposed locations. Four years have elapsed since a convention was held at that point, and now that suitable auditoriums are available at the hotels, it is believed that all conditions will be favorable. The remarkable scenic attractions, engineering features, and geographical situation combine to make it a most desirable place for such a gathering, and already a sufficient number of papers have been promised to make it a technical event of unusual interest. Members who wish to present papers should communicate with Chairman Stott or the Secretary as soon as possible, so that the schedule may be arranged for early publication."
"Transformers play a very important part in transmission systems at the present time. Two types have been used a great deal — air-cooled varnished-linen insulated, and oil-cooled oil-insulated transformers. The air-cooled transformer is cleaner to handle and repair; and there is practically no fire risk; with the oil-cooled transformer the fire risk is considerable."
"The current from the St. Croix Power Company's plant is carried underground at 25,000 volts into the heart of the business district, and is there stepped down in the St. Paul Gas Light Company's Cedar street station for use in six-phase synchronous converters and for 2200-volt alternating-current distribution. The transformers for the synchronous-converters are six in number, with one spare transformer, all of 300-kw. rating, designed for 22,500 volts on the high-tension end and 78 volts supply to the converters. In addition to these there are four 200-kw. transformers with the same primary voltage but with secondaries having 25 extra taps, brought out at one terminal, with 20 volts between taps; these giving a range of voltage from 2100 to 2600 volts. These transformers are connected on the Scott system to change from three- to two-phase current, an extra primary tap being provided to give the right ratio."
"Philadelphia, Pa., Mar. 11, 1907. To the Chairmen of all Branches American Institute of Electrical Engineers: My Dear Sir: There will shortly be submitted to the members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers a proposed new Constitution. The Constitution which was voted on last year failed to secure the number of affirmative votes necessary under the present Constitution for its adoption, namely, a majority of the total membership of the Institute. This was apparently due, not to any particular opposition to the proposed Constitution, as but a small percentage of negative votes was cast, but to the difficulty of getting out the large vote necessary. The Law Committee this year has prepared another revision, after carefully considering all criticisms and suggestions, and has asked the Local Organizations Committee to assist in getting out the vote so that the new revision may not be defeated simply by failure on the part of the members to express their opinions."
"The following preliminary program has been announced in connection with the dedication of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York City:"
"University of Arkansas At a meeting of this Branch, held at Fayetteville, Ark., March 5, W. B. Stelzner presiding, at which were present fifteen members and thirty-five visitors, Mr. K. A. Reed was elected secretary to succeed Mr. G. C. Baker, who has quit school. Professor Schapper favored the Branch with a very interesting discussion on the “Speed of Electricity.”"
"Meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, Friday, March 1, 1907. President Sheldon called the meeting to order at 8:20 o'clock."
"The High-Tension Transmission Committee arranged with the Committee on Papers and Meetings to hold a special meeting of the Institute in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York, on Friday, March 22, 1907, at 8 o'clock. This meeting was held under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee, and devoted solely to matters relating to high-tension transmission. The discussion was limited to the subjects contained in the following two “Introductions to Discussion:”"
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"A check for $50,000, the largest amount ever negotiated through the Institute's treasury, was handed to Chairman T. Commerford Martin on March 21, and represented the contribution of the Westinghouse companies to the building funds of the three founder societies. It was delivered to Chief Clerk Macnabb on March 25 and deposited the same day in the Fifth Avenue branch of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company. Two checks each representing one third of the amount were sent to Treasurer Hamilton to be signed, and on March 26 were delivered to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the American Institute of Mining Engineers. Mr. Martin has been a most enthusiastic advocate of the belief that the large manufacturing companies owe much of their success to the work of the national engineering organizations. The phenomenal growth of the Land Building and Endowment Fund proves that his faith and work make a winning combination."
"Mr. R. Crowell has removed from Sutter Creek, to Electra, Cal."
"James Blake Cahoon, former president of the National Electric Light Association, died at his home in New Rochelle, N. Y., February 17, 1907. Mr. Cahoon was born at Lyndon, Vt., December 22, 1856, and graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1879, subsequently taking a postgraduate course in electricity and chemistry at the Torpedo School. In 1889 he was appointed manager of the expert department of the Thomson-Houston Electric Company at Lynn, Mass. In 1895 he became general manager of the Elmira Municipal Improvement Company operating the electric railway gas and water plants of the city. During the war with Spain he served as a volunteer, and was given honorable mention for excellent service. Mr. Cahoon was elected an Associate June 17, 1890, and transferred to the grade of Member May 19, 1891. He was appointed a member of the Board of Examiners by President Duncan in 1895, and served three years. At the time of his death he was vice-president of the Eldenbel Construction Company at 42 Broadway."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The report of the Interstate Commerce Commission gives the total revenue traffic for the entire United States for the year ending June 30, 1905, as 1,038,441, 430 train-miles, of which 459,827,029 is passenger-train mileage, 546,424,405 freight-train mileage, and the unclassified balance, 32,189,996, we have assumed to be mail- and express-train mileage. Including the mail and express trains with the passenger-train service there is an average of 6.2 passenger and 6.9 freight trains per mile of line per day, or approximately 7 trains each way per day."
"Frank J. Sprague: This paper has evidently been prepared with a good deal of care, but in certain essentials I am absolutely at variance with some of the conclusions which have been expressed. There is so much to be said, and the time is so limited, that it would be discourteous to the authors and an injustice to myself to attempt to enter into detailed comment, so I shall content myself for the present with only a few remarks."
"Page 291, 13th and 14th lines from bottom, should read: “1. That it would be wrong to establish a standard frequency for single-phase railway operation at the present time.”"
"1. Originally lightning denoted electric discharges between clouds or between cloud and ground, and, when applied to an electric circuit, the results of such a discharge striking the line. Later it was found that during atmospheric disturbances, such as passing thunder storms, disturbances occurred in electric circuits even without the discharges striking the line. These disturbances — caused by induction — were also classed as “lightning,” and applied to electric circuits, lightning then came to mean all the effects of atmospheric electricity."
"Various formulas have been given heretofore for the predetermination of the leakage coefficient of induction motors, but the results derived from these formulas are so divergent that the formulas themselves are rather discredited. It seems to the writer that the following study about the values of the zigzag leakage may help to clear this somewhat unsettled question."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Recent circulars distributed by committees have elicited replies indicating that certain unsuccessful applicants for transfer to the grade of Member are dissatisfied with the results. In a general way it may be stated that these applicants have not submitted proper records of their engineering experience. One of the important qualifications of an engineer is that he should be able to prepare specifications or reports of his proposed work, or of investigations in behalf of a client. He should be able to judge of his own qualifications, and specify the important work he has done, and for which he was responsible. Many applicants rely upon their references to give this information, and this is frequently done. The intention is, however, that the applicant should personally record not only his electrical engineering experience, but indicate the periods of time occupied in carrying out the work. The requirements of the Constitution are simple, and if the applicant can comply with them he is in a certain sense more competent from his own knowledge to determine his qualifications than is the Board of Examiners which depends chiefly upon the records placed before it. The impression that appears to have prevailed in the past — that the decision of the Board was a mere perfunctory proceeding, has gradually been replaced by a belief that it is too rigid in its interpretation of the Constitution. If Associates will indulge in a serious contemplation of their records before filing their applications, they will in most cases avoid delay and annoyance, and greatly facilitate the work of the Board of Examiners."
"The experience of several of the Branches having the largest membership has led to decided improvements in their practice. Some of them have prepared excellent schedules covering the entire season, and in these cases original papers are usually to be provided by local or visiting members. There now appears to be a better understanding regarding the use of papers which have been presented at the New York meetings, which may be abstracted and discussed if deemed advisable by the local officers or committees, in case nothing more suitable can be provided for the local meeting. Where the author can present an important paper in person, especially if accompanied by demonstrations or lantern slides, the best results are attained. One precaution should always be carefully observed. The person who presents a paper at any meeting should be a member or a person of such standing that there can be no question as to the merits of his subject or the manner in which it is treated. While the actual presentation of a paper of an inferior grade might cause no harm, the fact that it has been read at an Institute meeting may be used for advertising purposes or in some objectionable way which would cause annoyance. There should be little difficulty in making inquiries in advance, thus avoiding any such possibility. The By-laws provide that unless accepted by the Institute for publication, no reference should be made to its presentation at an Institute meeting, if published elsewhere by the author."
"I am going to ask your attention to some thoughts of mine which seem to centre pretty well about the topic — The proper scope of engineering education: in particular, the proper scope of electrical engineering education. All education, or certainly such branches as are at all familiar to any of us here present, may be broadly divided into two sorts; general education and professional education."
"To start at the beginning of things, it was one morning in June this last summer when I first formally reported at the General Electric works in Schenectady. First impressions were not as marked in my case as in most cases, because two weeks before I had visited the works while on the annual inspection trip of the senior electrics."
"In looking for summer work the question of wages is more likely to appeal to a student who has nearly completed his college course than the question of experience, but with the present trend of electrical development it is exceedingly difficult for a man without experience to obtain more than enough to cover his living expenses, and a junior finds himself in just these circumstances. It is most beneficial for the student who has just completed three years of theory, to obtain some practical points in the application or construction of actual apparatus, and the methods most common in practice."
"The idea of entering telephone work was first presented to me by the representatives of different telephone companies, who came to the Institute last spring for the purpose of recruiting students. The American Telephone and Telegraph Company seemed to offer the best proposition, and I became one of several Institute men to enter their employ. It was agreeably arranged that we were to work together in groups of two."
"Local secretaries are invited to cooperate with the editorial staff, by preparing for publication in the Proceedings a suitable synopsis of each Branch meeting; this is not to supersede the formal official report for which printed forms are furnished. Both official form and synopsis should reach the Secretary on or before the sixth day of the month following the meeting."
"Meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held in the Assembly Room, New York Edison Company, 44 West Twenty-seventh St., New York, Friday, December 28, 1906. President Sheldon called the meeting to order at 8:30 o'clock."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"Mr. H. L. Van Valkenburg is now with the Walker Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa., as chief engineer."
"Francis E. Jackson died on Thursday, November 7, 1906, at the home of his father in East Orange, N. J."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The purpose of this paper is fourfold: 1, to record certain facts relative to heavy electric traction which have been established by experience; 2, to present calculations of relative costs of steam and electric traction in railway service based upon these facts; 3, to point out the transcendent importance of standardizing electric railway traction equipment as rapidly as may be consistent with progress; and 4, to raise the question whether a frequency of 25 cycles per second or 15 cycles per second should be adopted in railway operation by alternating-current motors."
"Improvements in wireless telegraph receivers have been much more numerous than in the sending apparatus. Since the first detector of Hertz, consisting of a minute spark-gap and loop of wire, used in 1887, there has been a very marked improvement. This improvement has not extended to the sending apparatus, for this apparatus is practically the same to-day as that employed by Hertz, differing mostly in magnitude and in the fact that one side of the oscillator is connected to ground."
"Electrical power transmission has given a great impetus to the development of water powers, and an understanding of these powers has become one of the duties of electrical engineers. There is a great variation in hydraulic plants in the characteristics that determine their usefulness; and these variations are the result of natural conditions and the manner of development."
"Herschel C. Parker: The problem of the transformation of electric power into light is of equal importance to the physicist and to the electrical engineer. When an electrical engineer experiments on the problem, he is experimenting in the domain of physics; when a physicist works on the problem, he is an electrical engineer, if his experiments are successful; if not, he is simply a physicist. There are only two or three points in Dr. Steinmetz's beautiful paper on which I am capable of saying anything that will interest you. The first is the fact that it is not the melting point of refractory substances that gives a high efficiency, but it is the point of disintegration or vaporization, shown by the tungsten filament and tantalum filaments which have a much lower melting point than carbon, but are much more difficult of vaporization, and hence show a great increase in efficiency. Mr. Walter G. Clark and I have been experimenting for a number of years on the subject of incandescent lighting, and we hope in the near future to present before the Institute some of these results which we think are of interest. A certain filament with which we have been experimenting, one substance of which is supposed to have a melting point of about 1400° cent., has shown an efficiency in experimental lamps of about one watt per candle, with an average life of 700 to 1200 hours. The vapor-tension of this substance is remarkably low; that is, it is almost impossible to vaporize the substance. This bears out in a remarkable manner the statement of Dr. Steinmetz. Another point about this filament is that if at the low temperature of 1800° or 1900° cent., it will give an efficiency of one watt per candle, we certainly must believe that some substances have a considerable selective radiation in the solid form, notwithstanding what the experiments of Messrs. Waidner and Burgess have shown regarding the tungsten and tantalum filaments."
"C. D. Ehret: Will Dr. De Forest please state the difference in principle and action between this audion and the Fleming rectifier, whose structural circuits so closely resemble those which he has placed on the blackboard"
