"Objects of the Institute. Among the objects of the Institute, expressed or implied, may be considered the following: the discussion of important questions relating to electrical engineering; the development of the science and the promotion of the arts in connection with the electrical industry; the present ation of papers which shall contain the newest discoveries and inventions, and also papers giving the present status of the art in different lines; to promote social intercourse and acquaintance among members of the profession; the creation of a standard of ethics; the standardization of engineering practice, and the development of the members of the organization."
"The regular meeting of December 18 was called to order at 8:15 p.m. in the Engineering Society room by Vicechairman Oehne. The secretary being absent, Mr. Lockwood read the minutes of the previous meeting, which were approved as read."
"The two hundred and twenty-fifth meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, Friday, February 14, 1908. President Stott called the meeting to order at 8: 00 p.m."
"Mr. S. B. Williams, Jr., has been transferred from the Chicago to the New York factory of the Western Electric Company."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgements: GIFTS"
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Earth connections in electric circuits are frequently made by driving a gas pipe into the ground. Such grounds are of fairly high resistance, and therefore not permissible where a low resistance ground is required. Their great simplicity and cheapness makes them desirable, where very low ground resistance is not necessary, as for discharging static charges, earthing overhead ground-wires, etc. To get data on the resistance offered by such gas pipe grounds, their permanence, and the variation of the resistance with the seasons, an investigation was started two years ago."
"Light is not a physical quantity, but a physiological effect, that of certain wave-lengths of radiation, and therefore can not be expressed in absolute physical units; it must be measured by comparison with an arbitrarily chosen standard of physiological effect. As a result thereof, even with the best existing primary standard of light, the amylacetate lamp, the difficulties of reproduction, and maintenance of its constancy, are such as to involve errors very far beyond those considered permissible in physical measurements. A radical increase in the accuracy of reproduction and maintenance of a primary standard of light appears possible only by relating the standard of light in such manner to physical quantities, that it can be determined by energy measurements."
"The following notes are based upon the results of tests conducted by the authors during the autumn months of 1907 on a section of the Lehigh Canal near Mauch Chunk, Pennsylvania. The object of the tests was to determine: a. Pull required to propel canal boats at various speeds and with varying numbers of boats in tow. b. The relative merits, for the purpose contemplated, of locomotives supplied by trolley and operating upon a track of 42-in. gauge, and a monorail system. c. The best speed and length of tow as fixed by physical conditions. d. The power required to operate the canal between Coalport and Bristol. e. The equipment required for such operation."
"The fundamental law of electromagnetic induction, which is the basis of all our present mechanical generators of electric currents, is, in general, stated in two different ways. Faraday's statement is to the effect that if a conductor cuts magnetic lines of force, an electromotive force is generated. This simple statement, however, has been changed by later authorities, who define the same law by saying in effect that when the amount of flux enclosed by an electric circuit is changed, an electromotive force is induced. This is the more usual form taught to-day and recopied in most text-books in preference to Faraday's statement of it."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The two hundred and thirtieth regular meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, Friday, October 9, 1908. President Ferguson called the meeting to order at 8 p.m."
"Samuel Sheldon: At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held on February 14, 1908, upon the expiration of the three years' service of a trustee of the United Engineering Society, the Board desired to put on record its hearty recognition of this trustee's earnest, faithful, and efficient services throughout the inception, construction, and completion of the Engineers' Building."
"Applications have been received by the secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"It is a great pleasure to-night to welcome you all at the first meeting for the year of the Philadelphia Section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. In beginning our year's work, it will be profitable to spend a few moments in considering what the general aim of this Section should be, and in looking back over what has been accomplished in the five years since its organization, as well as in outlining briefly the policy of the present Board, to whom you have intrusted its affairs for the coming year."
"At the first meeting of the school year for this Branch, held in Chapin Hall, Oct. 1, Mr. P. G. Downton read a paper on “Booster Systems.” This paper dealt entirely with boosters used in connection with storage-battery installations. Each type was taken up and explained in detail by means of diagrams. Special stress was laid upon the automatic types, both reversible and non-reversible. The speaker cited cases where boosters were used, and gave interesting figures showing the improvement and saving in the service rendered. The size of the plant in relation to the system employed was taken up and the speaker pointed out the conditions governing this choice. The use of storage-batteries in connection with alternating-current installations was touched upon and some of the booster schemes used were explained. In the discussion following the reading of the paper, Mr. Simpson explained in detail the split-pole synchronous converter and its relation to alternating-current central station economy."
"Mr. James R. Wilson, formerly of New York City, is now residing at Niagara Falls, New York."
"Albert Morrison Bullard, of the Western Electric Company, New York, died on September 19, 1908, at Liberty, New York. Mr. Bullard, son of Gardner W. and Fanny K. (Field) Bullard, was born January 6, 1868, at Boston, Mass., and was the youngest brother of the composer, Frederic Field Bullard, who died in June 1904. He was elected an Associate of the Institute on March 27, 1903. His preliminary education was received in Boston grammar and high schools, and in 1885 he entered the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Leaving that institution in 1888 he entered the employ of the Thomson-Houston Company, Lynn, Mass. From 1891 to 1903 he was engaged in special work on electrical welding, mechanical devices of telephony, and automatic telephones, for various companies. In 1903 he entered the employ of the Western Electric Company, New York, and until the time of his death was directly in charge of the installation of automatic plants at Queens and other points, and other larger problems of similar nature. In 1904 he married Marion Rorty, sister of Malcolm Rorty, of the Pittsburg Telephone Company. Mr. Bullard was artistic in temperament, refined in his tastes, a congenial co-worker, firm in friendships, kindly and considerate toward all. In addition to his natural mechanical talents he was a lover of music, and was a performer of ability. Both parents and a sister survive him."
"The following donations have been made to the library since the last acknowledgement:"
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The sensitiveness of the incandescent lamp to changes in voltage, both with reference to candle-power and life of the lamp, demanded very early in the history of electric lighting a close control of the voltage on constant-potential circuits. With the small direct-current generators that were first used this was easily accomplished by the simple field adjustment of the generator, but when the size of the generators increased and several were operated in multiple, several circuits were usually operated from one station bus-bar. With the low voltage used in direct-current distribution, the feeders could not have a negligible drop; therefore an adjustable artificial loss, in the form of a rheostat, had to be inserted in each feeder and adjusted according to the load. We all remember the early direct-current stations in which these rheostats took up almost as much space as the generators, and consumed enough energy to increase materially the cost of operating the plant. In these rheostats is found the first elementary feeder regulator."
"Comfort A. Adams: Eight or ten years ago I worked out, for the purpose of transmission line calculations, a method which, with tables and curves, was an almost exact equivalent of Mr. Pender's method. If one had frequent occasion to make transmission line calculations these tables and curves would be a great assistance, but for infrequent use it takes longer to become familiar with the method than to solve the problem by the long way."
"Percy H. Thomas: This paper is a little out of the ordinary, but the subject which it treats is well worth the attention of light and power men, as indicating how under certain conditions additional load may be gotten. I think the main lesson to be taken from what Mr. Waddell says, is that it is necessary to treat such matters as engineering problems when dealing with electric heating on a large scale, just as in the case of the boiling of water on a large scale in steam-electric plants. The heating of tea kettles and curling irons can be handled satisfactorily without special engineering training, but when large quantities of water are to be heated by electrical means of any kind it is necessary to treat the case as an engineering problem."
"W. L. Waters: Mr. Fechheimer is to be congratulated on the success obtained in his attempts to reduce the design of alternators to a series of mathematical formulas. A good many attempts have been made in the past to reduce electrical machine design to an exact science, but they have met with little success. The first attempt was made in regard to transformer design, when rules for the most economical dimensions were formulated by various engineers, but even in this extremely simple case such rules met with very little success. I think that such attempts only serve to emphasize the well known statement that electrical machine design is an art and not an exact science."
"W. S. Franklin (by letter): The establishment of a reliable and reproducible light standard is of very great importance, and we naturally look to our Bureau of Standards to carry out such researches as may be necessary for its realization. I therefore move that the Bureau of Standards be requested by the Institute of Electrical Engineers to undertake such researches as may be necessary to determine the practicability of the light standard suggested by Dr. Steinmetz, and, to develop such a primary standard of light if it be found practicable."
"J. F. Vaughan (by letter): It is gratifying to have a careful, independent analysis of the Taylor's Falls lightning records such as Mr. Thomas has given in his paper, and interesting to see wherein his conclusions differ from those of the original papers on this subject."
"Comfort A. Adams: This is not an easy paper to discuss, for although it presents many familiar phenomena, it presents them in a new language with which it takes time to become familiar. It is a very good kind of language, however, as it assists greatly in visualizing the problem in hand. This is of value, not only to the beginner in getting a picture of what goes on, but to the man who has to make the calculations, because when he can see the problem clearly in his mind's eye he is far more apt to get accurate and reliable results from his calculations."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"William Arnold Anthony was Past-president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 1890-91. He was born November 17, 1835 and died May 29, 1908."
"Owing to the large number of papers to be presented and discussed at the Atlantic City convention, and the limited time allotted to the professional sessions, it will be necessary to set a time-limit on the presentation of papers and discussions. As most of the 35 papers to be presented have been printed for some time, those not appearing previously being contained in this Proceedings, all members taking part in the discussion will have had ample time to prepare their remarks before the convention begins. Nor under the conditions will it be necessary for any author to read his paper in full; much time will be saved for discussion by having the authors present their papers in abstract within the time-limit set by the chairman of the Meetings and Papers Committee. The papers to be presented cover, approximately, 17 pages in the March Proceedings, 164 pages in the May Proceedings, 350 pages in the June Proceedings, and 250 pages in the July Proceedings — a total of 667 pages, not counting the President's address. In accordance with the convention program, these papers are to be presented at eight different sessions from Monday, June 29, to Thursday, July 2. The total time allotted to these eight sessions is 1320 minutes, or approximately 39 minutes for every paper and the complete discussion thereon. Allowing for the time occupied by the Address of Welcome and the President's address, and the intermissions of one kind or another that usually attend meetings of this sort, it is unlikely that more than 30 minutes can be allowed on the average for each paper and the discussion on it. As some of the papers are of more than ordinary interest, it may be necessary in such cases to extend the time-limit for both the paper and discussion; whenever this is found advisable, the extension will be regulated by the presiding officer at the session at which the paper is presented."
"The Institute Headquarters during the convention will be at the Hotel Traymore. Upon arrival in Atlantic City, please register at the Institute headquarters and obtain an identification badge. The convention sessions will be held in the Hotel Traymore."
"To the President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers:"
"A meeting was held May 7, 1908, Professor M. E. Rice presiding, with an attendance of 22. The executive committee was instructed to prepare a special program and furnish refreshments for the last regular meeting of the year on May 21. T. T. Hambleton discussed difficulties encountered in his senior thesis work on “Determination of Iron Losses” and Professor Rice then led the discussion on the Institute paper, “The Engineer's Activity in Public Affairs”, which appeared in the April Proceedings. A brief outline of the paper was given by Professor Rice, and a general discussion followed."
"At a special meeting of the Board of Directors at 33 West 39th Street, New York on Friday June 12, 1908, at 3:30 p.m. The following 134 Associates were elected:"
"Applications have been received by the secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"Mr. F. P. Fish has resigned as a director of the General Electric Company, in order to devote all of his time to the practice of law."
"Henry Chase Buck, who was elected an Associate December 26, 1906, died of heart failure on February 25, 1908, at the American School of Correspondence in Chicago. He was born in Strafford, Vermont, March 27, 1851, and graduated from Tufts College in 1875, receiving the degree of A. B. The following year he received the degree of A.M. For several years he was associated with the Dolbear Telephone Company. He organized and built several gas and electric light plants, and for three years was the New England agent of the Wagner Electric Manufacturing Company of St. Louis. During the last three years he had been an instructor in the electrical engineering department of the American School of Correspondence, at Chicago."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgments :"
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Introduction. The following investigation of the general equations of the electric circuit was carried out during the last year, and necessarily is still very incomplete, and in some instances may require modification. As, however, our incomplete knowledge of the phenomena resulting from the stored energy of the electric field is at present the main hindrance to a practically unlimited extension of high potential transmission and distribution, the study of these phenomena represents the most important problem of electrical engineering, and the following outline is given in the hope of inducing other investigators to take up and continue the study of the subject."
"Under the conditions of modern life electricity is an indispensable adjunct to the successful conduct of an establishment the size of Biltmore House; in this residence, besides the power, lighting and signal service, it is now also used for heating."
"Conditions in the commercial world necessitate an increasing consideration being given to the perfecting of organization and to raising the standard of individuals composing the same. The present may be said to be distinctly an age of organization, and in the competition which naturally exists, the relative efficiency attained by different organizations has much to do with their survival in the competitive struggle of modern times. Much thought is now being expended on this question and a great deal of good is resulting from the study being made of it. A whole can reach its best condition only when all of the parts which compose it are of the first class. This means that the individuals composing an organization must be of the best quality both as regards natural and acquired ability. There is an increasing demand for highly trained men, and there is considerable discussion as to what that training should be. A man who has concentrated his energies for four years on a special line of work is naturally more efficient in that line than would be possible otherwise, and consequently the properly trained college man is more efficient than the man without a college education. The ranks of industrial manufacturing concerns are, without question, becoming more largely filled with college graduates and therefore the importance of the technical graduate is increasing. There will always be men of unusual natural ability who will succeed without a college education, but such individuals undoubtedly would have been able to accomplish more if they could have had the advantages of concentrated training correctly applied for a number of consecutive years."
"In order to insure the supply of timber and to protect the water sheds and conserve the water of our mountain streams, the government some years ago adopted the policy of withdrawing large timber areas from entry by creating national forests. The preserves were to be operated by the forestry department for use and not for profit. Recently the government has given permits to companies proposing to make power developments on condition that the permits be revocable at the pleasure of the Secretary of the Interior, and that there be a conserving water royalty charge by the government on the power output of the plant."
"The following study of the Taylor's Falls line lightning data has been made for the purpose of discovering what inferences as to the nature of the attack of lightning on a transmission line can be safely and properly drawn from the unusually complete data recorded."
"In the rapid development attending the introduction of the steam turbine, there has been but comparatively little tendency to introduce radical departures from accepted engine practice. The most important changes have taken place in the boiler room, while in the rest of the plant very few changes have been inaugurated other than a general increase of compactness in the turbo-generating room. Outside of the tendency to structural foundations for generating units, there is little opportunity for originality in design without involving a radical change in the ensemble."
"In this paper an attempt is made to present a general study of a problem upon which only very limited data seem to be available — power generation by gas-engine-driven plants, its commercial efficiency, and ultimate cost. I think it best to approach the subject from the operating standpoint, basing calculations upon actual working results from a specific case, one of demonstrated fact. The Richmond tests are conclusive in this respect, and although somewhat limited in scope (being only a commercial test), nevertheless provide a starting point for further deductions. While of a somewhat cursory nature, it is hoped the data presented will serve at least to emphasize the wide field of the modern gas power plant."
"The discussion of the theory, practical operation, and possibilities of wireless telephony is facilitated by first briefly considering the history of the development of wireless signaling generally."
"A. E. Kennelly (by letter): The paper presents a certain fundamental physical proposition relating to a fundamental standard of luminous intensity, and also a practical proposal suggesting a means for carrying out the proposition. In so far as concerns the physical proposition, it seems to be unassailable, and to offer a theoretical solution for the problem of realizing a standard luminous intensity of definite physiological value, and definitely measured energy; that is, in ergs per steradian, or ergs per cubic centimeter from point to point of the luminous beam."
"Chas. P. Steinmetz (by letter): Mr. Hering's paper is interesting in that it draws attention to a looseness in the form of expressing this law, which is frequently the cause of serious misunderstanding, and the waste of much energy and time. For instance, in the attempts to invent a coil-wound unipolar machine much useless effort could have been avoided by a clearer distinction between the general law and the special case of its application to a continuous closed conductor. While Mr. Hering's experiment is interesting in showing an instance of a closed electric circuit in which the number of interlinkages with the lines of force changes without inducing an electromotive force, it is not startling to me, as the reverse case, the electromagnetic induction of an electromotive force, in a closed circuit, without any change of the number of interlinkages of the circuit with the magnetic flux, is illustrated by practically every unipolar machine. There are thousands of kilowatts of such machines now in commercial operation."
"The Board of Directors presents herewith for the information of the Institute a report of its work during the year, and of the various standing and special committees, also the financial standing of the organization."
"We beg to submit herewith our report giving the more important features of the growth and operation of the library for the year ending April 30, 1908; with a statement of the present condition of the several library funds and of the expenditures for the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"THE first meeting of the Institute in New York for the year 1908–1909 will be held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, on Friday, October 9, at 8 p.m. Messrs. Peter Junkersfeld and E. O. Schweitzer, of the Commonwealth Edison Company of Chicago, will present a paper entitled “High-Potential Underground Transmission”."
"The subject of electric cables, in its entirety, is so broad that several papers would be necessary to do it full justice. Much could be written about the material entering into the construction of cables, much about the manufacture of cables, and a great deal about the testing and installation of cables. A description of the different kinds of cable and the use for which they are intended would of itself be enough for one paper. In addition to all this, the subject of cable data such as would be of interest or benefit to operators or consulting engineers covers a large and only partly explored field. Under this heading may be mentioned tests to determine the eddy current losses in the conductors and lead covers of various sized cables transmitting alternating currents, variation of impedances of armored cables and of ordinary cables with and without the lead covers connected at each end, dielectric losses, current carrying capacities, etc."
"On June 30, after considerable but chiefly favorable discussion, it was unanimously resolved by the Institution of Electrical Engineers to secure the building on the Victoria Embankment, known as the Medical Examination Hall, from the Royal College of Physicians and the Royal College of Surgeons, and make it the home of the Institution."
"The forestry department of the Biltmore Estate propose celebrating the twentieth anniversary of forestry at Biltmore together with the tenth anniversary of the Biltmore Forest School, on November 26, 27, and 28. They extend to professional engineers and others interested a cordial invitation to attend the meeting."
"Applications have been received by the secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"The first meeting of the Pittsburg Section for the year 1908–1909 was held in the lecture hall of the Carnegie Institute on September 9, 1908. Besides the reading of the papers, the following officers were elected for the ensuing year:"
"Mr. A. S. Hatch, of Detroit, Mich., has purchased the electric lighting plant at Burnside, Ky., which he intends to remodel, using a water power near by."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Among the many electrical developments of the day the most striking one, the most far reaching in its direct and indirect results, is the successful transmission of energy at greatly increased pressures. From present indications systems operating at potentials of 100,000 volts and over will not be uncommon in a few years, and none dare prophesy what further increase the future has in store. What this means to many communities from an economic and sociologic standpoint can readily be appreciated. Cheap power will enable present industrial communities to improve and new ones to build up in pleasant localities many miles from its source, whether coal or waterfall, and cheap traction will quickly carry their wares to market."
"Chas. P. Steinmetz: The matter of fire protection is of extreme importance, and the Institute should certainly actively coöUperate with other organizations in the effort to reduce the risk. I believe, however, the question is a far broader one than that of fire hazard. Electrical fire hazard may be of interest to the fire underwriters, but it is equally important that the Institute should consider the danger of electric power to human life, to invested capital, to the destruction of apparatus, etc., even if the destruction does not mean an increased fire hazard. The Institute is the one body which could take up this subject in its broader aspect. I think that the Institute should appoint a committee dealing with such questions. Such a committee may better existing conditions by establishing rules. A safer and better way for the committee to act would perhaps be to obtain papers that reflect good engineering practice, calling these papers to the attention of the public at large. This would be more effective than the formulating of a lot of rules. These papers could discuss the practice of carrying extra high voltage lines through towns and cities and indicate good practice in overhead lines of different voltages, and whether these overhead lines of different voltages should be on the same poles or not. Rigid rules on all these matters cannot be insisted upon, but in a paper an author can readily state his views and thereby bring the matter before the whole Institute for discussion."
"J. B. Taylor: The stroboscopic disc illuminated by an alternating-current arc or incandescent lamp has been used for a number of years to determine the speed of induction motors, synchronous machinery, and of other pieces of apparatus. This method of obtaining intermittent illumination is much simpler than by means of the fork described in this paper, and for some purposes gives the desired information with greater accuracy."
"J. H. Finney: Mr. Baum's paper is an interesting presentation of his views as a “power enthusiast and a believer in a cheap source of power,” and his belief that “cheap power is vital and necessary to the present and future development of the country” will be, I am sure, supported heartily in this assemblage. We may also be classed as power enthusiasts. I think, however, that his presentation of the case is wrong from several standpoints:"
"A. B. Smith: For a number of years it has been my hope that the automatic would be able to solve the telephone problem for large cities; that it would bring the rental a little lower for the benefit of the many who need the telephone but cannot now afford it, and that it would afford relief from the party line. That this can only be done by subdivision into small offices with short subscriber lines is acknowledged, but the apparently insurmountable obstacle of trunk lines and office expenses have stood squarely in the way. However, it may now safely be said that the automatic has arrived at that point of development where its claims merit serious consideration."
"J. H. Finney: I believe that many of us here fail to realize the actual value of the work that has been done by the Southern Power Company in the south. I think that there are not many electric plants in this county that I have not seen at one time or another, and I believe the work that has been done by developing the water power system of the Catawba river by the Southern Power Company is as creditable as any similar work in the United States. It is well worth a visit to go down and see that Great Falls plant, the Rocky Creek plant, and the others there."
"N. J. Neall (by letter): It may properly be said of a transmission line structure that factors of safety are both necessary and expensive. It is naturally desirable, therefore, so to shape the design and so to adjust it to its operating requirements as to secure a maximum of service with a minimum of outlay."
"C. W. Ricker: The additional data which I have to present should properly have been included in Mr. Bibbins' paper, but as an analysis of all the vouchers had to be made to determine these data, which could not be done in time, they will be offered as discussion as briefly as possible. The data are as follows:"
"W. I. Slichter: There is a point in the subject of cascade connection of induction motors which the speaker would like to hear discussed, as it is particularly important in connection with railway engineering. The usual and first idea of the result of the cascade connection of induction motors is that it will make it possible to obtain from a given pair of motors a greater torque at a low speed than is obtained in normal operation. But a closer study of this subject shows that the maximum torque of two motors connected in cascade is always less than that of either one of the individual motors. This is a proved fact with regard to the operation of motors with like number of poles, but it would be interesting to know what the relation is with motors having different numbers of poles."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"An important change has been made in the conditions under which the Edison Medal is hereafter to b e awarded."
"The President and Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"A list of the donations made to the Library since the last acknowledgement is given."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this section of the periodical."
"Recent Institute discussions have brought out a decided difference of opinion on the value of certain lightning protective devices and have expressed a demand for positive data on line protection especially. This paper furnishes data obtained last summer on an operating line experimentally equipped with various protective devices. The results are of especial interest in being actual records made by means of tell-tale papers applied not only to the station protective devices but also to those on the line, and even to the line insulators themselves throughout the system."
"It is intended to discuss in this paper the general import to high-tension transmission of the data gained in 1907 as to lightning performance on the Taylor's Falls line, 50,000 volts, of the Minneapolis General Electric Co., and on the Presumpscot Electric Company feeders supplying power at 11,000 volts to the Cumberland Mills, near Portland, Me."
"The single-phase alternator has been in comrrtercial use now for twenty years and it may seem surprising that there should be new developments at this late date. However, single-phase alternators have been used in the past almost exclusively for lighting work, and in units of comparatively small output and low speed. Recently, on account of the adoption of single-phase current for traction work, an important demand has arisen for large high-speed, low-frequency, single-phase generators. It is in the design and manufacture of such units that the engineer has had to overcome new difficulties. In large, high-speed, single-phase generators for 15 and 25 cycles the difficulties met with are due almost entirely to the large pole-pitch and high armature reaction which it is necessary to adopt. A 500-kw., 60-cycle, 72-pole, single-phase generator would have a pole-pitch of about 7 in., while a 6000-kw., 15-cycle, 2-pole machine would have one machine of about 120 in. It is easily seen that the design of these will be radically different."
"The method of attacking the problem of the location of substations in electric railways is governed by the physical layout of the road. The problem involved in the case of networks serving a limited territory, such as urban or suburban lines, may be solved from a study of the magnitude of the various relatively fixed load-centers which are created by the configuration of the lines; and the sub-stations may be placed at the different centroids of the system. In the case of long single roads connecting distant communities, such as interurban and trunk lines, there is presented the study of more or less uniformly loaded stretches, in which there are no distinct centers of load, except those that result from the characteristics of the line profile or the traffic movement. The latter problem is more susceptible to mathematical treatment, so that the contents of this paper will be confined to the consideration of interurban and trunk line projects, or, in other words, to relatively long roads."
"General. The Underground Electric Railways Company of London, Ltd., control and operate electrically the Metropolitan District Railway and contingent lines, 56 miles of main-line double track, and three deep level “tube” railways, with connections, aggregating approximately 28 miles of double track. A detailed description of the electrification of the system, by the writer, appeared in the Street Railway Journal of March 4, 1905."
"Based on the commonly accepted definition of power-factor, as “The ratio of true power to volt-amperes”, there can be no single factor that will exactly express such a physical relationship in a delta-connected, unsymmetrical, three-phase system."
"As bearing on the general problem of conversion from steam to electricity for railroad operation, attention may be drawn to the probable influence of the methods followed and results obtained in equipping single-track roads. Of the total mileage in this country, about 60% is single track. The conditions obtaining on such roads are necessarily widely different from those on the large trunk-line sections which have been recently electrically equipped. While the several notable papers which have recently appeared on this and kindred subjects have taken quick advantage of the data available from the short periods of operation of several large installations, it cannot be said that the conditions in those cases are typical of more than a part of the entire problem."
"Fractional pitch windings have been treated by various authors in the past, especially with regard to the influence they have upon the self-induction of the armature winding. The object of this paper is to deal briefly with the points leading to the use of a chorded winding for alternating-current generators from the standpoint of manufacture and design, and to indicate the influence this winding has on the performance of a machine."
"If news had been received during the last six months of the total destruction of our fleet of battleships on its way to San Francisco, even without any loss of life, what a calamity it would have been considered, and how messages of sympathy would have poured in from all the governments in the world. The value of that fleet is probably less than $125,000,000; the property loss by the conflagration in the city of San Francisco, toward which that fleet was headed, of $350,000,000 by one fire, brought similar messages because it was an unusual occurrence."
"It has long been known that when an arcing ground occurs in a system, abnormal voltages and consequent failure of apparatus often result. This series of tests was started with the hope of being able to deduce some mathematical expression which would represent these phenomena with reasonable accuracy. The mathematical expression did not materialize, but in view of the importance of the subject, and believing that the results will prove of some interest and value, I give them in the following paper. The theoretical explanation might form the subject of a future paper."
"This paper treats of three principal topics: 1. The enormous economic waste which the wire, cable, and conduit equipment of a telephone system involves. 2. A recapitulation and discussion of reasons which make this waste necessary or expedient in manually operated systems. 3. How this waste can and should be greatly reduced in systems employing automatic switchboards."
"It is the object of this paper to call attention to what has already been accomplished by others in the direction of measuring rotary speeds with the stroboscopic fork, and also to a certain new modification of the principle which has been developed by the authors."
"The broad statement may be made that it is no more difficult to commutate an alternating current than an equal direct current. Such a statement would appear to be entirely contrary to the usual experience, but a little study of the matter will show where the apparent discrepancy lies. In commutator type alternating-current motors, as usually built, a relatively large number of commutator bars pass off under the brush during one alternation of the supply current. While the current supplied is varying from zero to maximum value and back to zero, possibly 50 bars have been passed under the brush, and therefore 50 coils in the armature have been reversed or commutated. Some of these reversals occur at the top of the current wave which has a value of about 40% higher than the mean or effective value which is read by the ammeter. The motor is therefore at times commutating 40% higher current than that indicated by the instruments. It is thus evident that in comparing the commutation of 100 amperes direct-current with 100 amperes alternating-current we should actually compare the direct-current with 141 amperes alternating. In other words, for commutating equal currents alternating-current or direct-current, the alternating-current ammeter should register only 71% as much current as the direct-current. Another way of expressing it is that we have to commutate the top or maximum of the alternating-current wave, while our instruments only record the mean value."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"In order to make clear to all, the basis on which the papers read before the Sections during the past year and sent to the secretary of the Institute for consideration, have been judged, the retiring chairman of the Meetings and Papers Committee wishes to make the following explanation. All such papers have been examined when received, either by the chairman or some other properly qualified person, and when found to meet the general standard that has been set up for the regular meetings of the Institute, have been accepted for publication. There have been some papers of merit which have not been on subjects quite in line with the usual custom, and which, though perfectly appropriate for Section meetings where local conditions dominate, have not been published. No Section papers have been published in the last two issues of the Proceedings, since all the available space was occupied by the convention papers."
"A Very important duty which every member of the Institute can undertake, is to correct the erroneous impression that the technical press publishes everything of value that is printed in the Proceedings. While the Institute places no restriction upon reprinting its papers and discussions, the amount of important matter published is so great that our exchanges cannot undertake to print it in full. Non-members not familiar with the work of the Institute do not always realize what they miss, and frequently apply for copies of papers which are out of print. Notable instances of this nature are the papers by H. A. Foster on the “Cost of Steam Power”, by Dr. M. I. Pupin, on “Wave Transmission over Non-uniform Cable and Long-distance Air-lines” and C. O. Mailloux on “Speed Time Curves.” As all important papers and discussions printed in Section II of the Proceedings are subsequently included in the Transactions, membership in the Institute has a permanent value to the electrical engineer which can only be appreciated by actual participation in its work."
"The twenty-fifth annual convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held at Atlantic City, N. J., from June 29 to July 2, was undoubtedly the most successful meeting ever held by the A. I. E. E. While the attendance in point of members was not above the average attendance at the Institute conventions during recent ford Martin, Carl Hering, Samuel Sheldon, Louis Duncan, John W. Lieb, Jr., Arthur E. Kennelly, and Elihu Thomson all were there engaged in looking after the welfare of the Institute. Commenting on this interesting feature of the convention at one of the sessions, President Stott said: As a nation we frequently find ourselves asking, ‘What shall we do with our ex-presidents?’ As a national engineering society we ask years there were 469 members and guests yet the proportion of prominent and well-known electrical engineers present and active in one way or another at one or more of the sessions was much greater than usual. Including President-elect Louis A. Ferguson, there were present no less than twelve men that have been honored with the office of president: Charles P. Steinmetz, Charles F. Scott, Schuyler Skaats Wheeler, Henry G. Stott, T. Commerthe same question and then answer it by saying, ‘We make them continue to work for the Institute.’ There are ten of them here now, disinterestedly doing this very thing."
"To the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, September 28, 1906, and in accordance with the action of the board, President Sheldon appointed a committee consisting of John W. Lieb, Jr., Schuyler Skaats Wheeler, and Ralph W. Pope, to prepare a suitable testimonial for presentation to the Institution of Electrical Engineers in acknowledgment of courtesies to the representatives of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers who participated in the Circular Tour through Great Britain in July, 1906. The committee decided that the testimonial should be made in the form of a bronze bust of Benjamin Franklin, bearing a suitable inscription, and mounted on a mahogany pedestal. This was subsequently forwarded to Mr. Horace F. Parshall, Local Honorary Secretary of the Institute for Great Britain, by whom it was presented to the Institution of Electrical Engineers, at the general meeting held at London on April 30, 1908. The following is an extract from the official proceedings on that occasion."
"A meeting was held in the engineering rooms on May 14, C. R. Morey presiding, with an attendance of 13. Mr. Morey read a paper on “Lightning Protective Apparatus.” He discussed atmospheric conditions making lightning protection necessary. The effect of lightning discharge was pointed out and similar effects produced in switching were also shown. The theory of the lightning-arrester and its component parts was taken up together with their location to afford the most efficient protection. Mr. Morey described the more important types of arresters from the earliest forms to the most recent. The operation of each was fully explained. A few foreign types of arresters were discussed briefly. The multigap and electrolytic arresters were considered in detail. A short discussion followed the reading of this paper."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered b y the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"The Engineers' Club of Philadelphia has removed to 1317 Spruce street, Philadelphia, Pa."
"The following volumes have been received and placed in the Library of the Institute: Radio-Activity. By Fredk. Soddy, M.A. 214 pages, Illustrated. England: “The Electrician” Printing and Publishing Company, Ltd. 1904."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Eighty years ago Thomas Tredgold defined engineering as “The art of directing the great sources of power in nature for the use and convenience of man.” Progress in engineering has been greater in the eighty years which have elapsed since this definition was made than in the previous period of 4500 years beginning with the first great, tangible piece of engineering, the pyramid Cheops."
"Without disparaging other aspects of our progress, it is not too much to say that our time is preeminently the age of power. This applies to the world at large, but especially to the United States. Our population is increasing with unprecedented rapidity, but our mineral production is increasing so much more rapidly that some have called this the age of metal. Steel, copper, and wood are combined in mechanical devices at a rate increasing more rapidly than ore production, so that others have characterized this as the age of the machine; yet that aspect of modern life which most impresses the student of progress is the increasing use of mechanical power through the development of prime movers and the utilization of new power sources. Rapidly as our population advances, it is outrun by metal production, and that in turn by machine building; yet our most rapid progress — the feature in which our advancement exceeds all others — is in the development and use of power."
"George S. Coleman: In one respect I agree with Mr. Floy, engineers as a class are, perhaps, a little too modest; but I do not quite agree that engineers ought to be considered in any wise responsible for matters which are hard enough for other men to handle, men who are devoting all their time to it. I do think, however, that the time has come when groups of engineers, different kinds of engineers, should give the benefit of their concerted thought and action to any public question on which they are supposed to be especially well informed. In the case of a new bridge across any of our rivers, or a new subway, or a new elevated railroad, in fact any kind of engineering work likely to affect the public, this Institute, and every body of engineers who in any way might be related to that enterprise, should be heard officially. If Mr. Floy's suggestion this evening shall encourage among engineers the habit of not merely quiet, independent thought in their work, but concerted action after discussion, he will have accomplished a notable result."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"With the closing of the year, the greatest scientist of the world has passed away. The active life of one late Lord kelvin covered the industrial development of the electrical art, with which he has been continuously associated. It was his good fortune to have entered the exact field for which he had been apparently best fitted by nature, and his education and training combined to make his career the most notable of the two centuries. He embodied all the qualifications of a genius without the usually accompanying eccentricities. He recognized his duties to his fellow men, while true to his love of science. His inventions were of the highest type, and through their utility and value, he was enabled to pursue his chosen paths throughout an active and useful life, and until he was actually stricken down by fatal illness. Never has a man been so universally honored; never have honor; been more honestly deserved; neve; have honors been more modestly accepted; and it may be well said never were honors more heartily appreciated. Looking back over the career, he may well have felt thankful that he had been granted ingenuity, ability and opportunity to perform his part in adapting the forces of nature to the welfare of mankind."
"The rather serious question of suitable halls for meetings has been most satisfactorily solved in at least two instances this season through the courtesy of the Philadelphia Electric Company and the Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston. The introduction of welfare work by many of the larger electrical companies has led to the establishment and equipment of suitable auditoriums for the use of their employes. Most of these halls are available for meeting purposes, and are centrally located. It will be remembered that during the construction of the Engineers' Building in New York City, the New York Edison Company placed its fine auditorium at the disposal of the Institute for two seasons, and this courtesy was most heartily appreciated, as at that time no suitable hall could be hired. Now that permanent buildings are being erected in many cities, it appears probable that local electrical companies may in many other cities coöperate with Sections to the great advantage of their employes. Section officers should keep this matter in mind, as a mere suggestion may in many instances lead to the designing of a meeting or lecture hall which might otherwise be overlooked."
"William Thomson, first Lord Kelvin, the noted scientist, President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, died at Glasgow, Scotland, December 17, 1907, at the ripe age of eighty-three years. Born in Belfast, Ireland, June 25, 1824, William Thomson began life without a title, or any heritage, save that of brains. In 1832, his father James Thomson, professor of mathematics in an institute in Belfast, removed the scene of his activities to his alma mater at Glasgow, which thenceforward remained the home of his distinguished son. William received his education in part from his father and in part from the College of Glasgow. In 1845 he was graduated from St. Peter's College, Cambridge, where he won notable honors, being first Smith's prizeman of his year, as well as second wrangler. While at Cambridge, Thomson was devoted to athletics, and rowed in the winning boat in a race with Oxford."
"The regular meeting of the Armour Institute branch was held on Nov. 22, in the electricity lecture room. Vicechairman Oehne called the meeting to order at 7:45 p.m."
"The two hundred and twenty-third meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York, Friday, December 13, 1907. President Stott called the meeting to order at 8:15 p.m."
"MR. J. M. Fried, formerly of Chicago, is now associated with the Weinburg Electric Company, at Pittsburgh, Pa."
"MR. John James Skidmore died of pneumonia at his home, 615 West Forty-fourth street, New York, on October 23. Mr. Skidmore was born at Douglaston, Long Island, August 28, 1873. He entered the service of the American Bell Telephone Company Feb. 20, 1893, as inspector in the instrument department, and from 1900 to 1904 was superintendent of the testing laboratory. On Oct. 31, 1904, he was transferred to the experimental laboratory where he remained until the present year, when he entered the employ of the Western Electric Company in New York. Mr. Skidmore was elected an Associate Sept. 28, 1906."
"The following volumes have been received and placed in the Library of the Institute: Dynamo-Electric Machinery. By Silvanus P. Thompson, D. Sc., B.A., F.R.S. Seventh edition (corrected). Vol. I. Continuous Current Machines. 984 pages. Illustrated. New York: Spon & Chamberlain. London: E. & F. N. Spon, Ltd. 1904. Price, $7.50."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"At the Wisconsin Steel Company's Mill at South Chicago the turbine utilizes the exhaust steam from a reversible engine which drives the blooming rolls. The steam passes first to the receiver which takes out the shock of the puffs of steam, thence to the steam accumulator or “regenerator”, and from there to the turbine and condenser. The general layout of the plant is shown in Fig. 2."
"In the very valuable paper on “Power Plant Economics,” presented before this Institute, Jan. 26, 1906, by Mr. H. G. Stott, (Trans. Vol. XXV, pp. 1–27), attention was called to the utility of records of the percentage of CO2 (carbonic dioxide) present in the flue gases of a boiler plant, as a means of determining and of preventing those fuel losses which might be termed “avoidable”."
"In view of the extended treatment which has already been accorded to this subject on the floor of the Institute, and elsewhere by distinguished engineers during recent years, it is difficult and in fact hardly necessary to add anything to the electrotechnical side of the subject. So many are the electrical schemes proposed for the accomplishment of the various ends that it now seems desirable to examine the subject from standpoints other than electrical, in order to facilitate intelligent consideration of the problem as a whole."
"The various single-phase railway motors which have been developed during the past few years have been styled in general as either repulsion or as series motors."
"The method and distance chosen for sectionalizing the high-tension wires supplying power for alternating-current traction is worthy of careful consideration. Local conditions play so important a part in the correct conclusion of method and proper distance to be applied, that no precedent or convention can be followed and standardization is quite out of the question."
"The recent rapid development of the electrical industry owes its vitality to the engineering school. Its graduates have done the designing, constructing, operating, and directing which have made possible the rapid progress and wide extension in the use of electricity. The ideals, the equipment, and the methods in engineering education, as well as the number and size of the schools, show a remarkable rate of progress. In fact, the advance in the electrical industry, in engineering education, and in the American Institute of Electrical Engineers closely correspond when measured numerically. There has been a close interrelation between them."
"When in the following I dwell more on those features of our electrical engineering education which appear to me unsatisfactory, it is not that I overlook the many good points, but rather that a criticism of the few defects appears to me more important, for the purpose of urging their elimination."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of hotels, guest capacities, proprietor or manager, guest plans and rates for hotels in  Atlantic City, NJ, USA."
"The undersigned, representing approximately 20,000 American engineers, respectfully recommend the following resolutions for adoption by this Conference:"
"Major Edgar Russel - assistant to the chief signal officer of the US Army, who was one of the passengers in the signal Corps balloon which made a flight on May 13, from Washington D.C. to Patuxent, MD - said that the wireless experiments conducted during the flight were highly successful and will be continued. Russel is quoted as saying: \"I think that I can safely predict that wireless telegraphy to and from a balloon can be used in war. This means that I am sure that we will shortly perfect an apparatus that can be safely and successfully used in both receiving and sending messages from a balloon to any station within a radius of many miles.\""
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this section of the periodical."
"In a single-phase alternating-current circuit, the ratio of the mean effective pressure E to the mean effective current I, is defined as the impedance z of the circuit;"
"During the last ten or fifteen years a great deal of work has been done toward perfecting methods for varying the speed of induction motors. Each of these methods has certain disadvantages, which have precluded the general adoption of any one of them for practical use. The method most generally applied for varying the speed is that of inserting resistance in the secondary circuit. This method of speed regulation, however, has the one great disadvantage that, for a certain load and speed a certain amount of resistance is required; and as soon as the load changes, the resistance must be changed in order to maintain the same speed. When the load is taken off the motor will return to its synchronous speed. It is also evident that such speed regulation can be obtained only by a great sacrifice of efficiency, due to the high ohmic losses in the secondary circuit."
"A new generating plant of considerable magnitude has been completed recently at Niagara Falls. This plant is the new plant of the Niagara Falls Hydraulic Power and Manufacturing Company. A number of large direct-current generators to be used for the manufacture of aluminum has been installed in this plant, each generating unit consisting of two direct-current generators connected to 11,000-h.p. turbines. A large alternating-current generator, one of an aggregate of three wound for 12,000 volts, has also been installed in this station. The power house is located at the foot of the falls, on the American side, below the old power house of the Niagara Falls Hydraulic Power and Manufacturing Company."
"Even though in times of business depression it may seem to us as if there were more applicants than positions, yet no thoughtful man denies that, while the number of positions in such times may have greatly decreased, the importance of filling them by thoroughly capable and competent people has correspondingly increased. For example, a position which, in times of exceptional prosperity may be filled fairly well by an average man, will be sorely in need of a man of exceptional ability when business prosperity is on the wane. If there is any one fact more patent than another it is the fact that there is always room at the top of the ladder for men of integrity, of moral courage, and of intellect. There are plenty of men who possess any one of these qualities; there are few who possess all three, and these the manufacturing companies, or the world at large, most require. In their anxiety to secure the raw recruits for officers thus endowed, the manufacturers turn of necessity to the universities and their graduates."
"During the past year investigations have been continued in the study of lightning and the operation of lightning-arresters on transmission lines. Another effort was made to supplement laboratory studies with experimental measurements on transmission lines. Two lines were chosen well up in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado as offering the greatest facilities both from the interest of the managers and the frequency and severity of lightning storms. New types of apparatus were developed for measurements and new data were collected. The object of this paper is to describe briefly the instruments and methods used in the measurement of duration, potential, current, frequency, and the theory and practise of lightning protection and earth connections with data collected during two years of study; also resistance measurements of cement under the heating effect of dynamic current, and comments on the action of lightning-arresters."
"Introduction. The interesting discussion on the split-pole converter at the February New York meeting of the Institute instigated the following paper, which consists of a purely theoretical analysis, the principal object of which is to show how the field distortion of a split-pole converter does not necessarily involve electromotive force distortion."
"The object of this paper is to evolve diagrams by means of which nearly all the phenomena of the rotating field may be easily studied, and the various factors necessary for the calculation of fluxes, exciting current, etc., exactly determined. In order to avoid too frequent repetition of certain expressions, the author has adopted the expedient of using the words “addition” and “subtraction” to mean geometrical addition and subtraction of vectors according to the well-known conventional method."
"The general function of a storage battery in connection with an alternating-current system is the same as in a direct-current system, namely, to relieve the power plant and in some cases the transmission lines of the fluctuations of load, permitting the generating machinery and conductors to be utilized to the greatest advantage and at maximum economy by subjecting them to a steady load equal to the average, instead of a load whose fluctuations in some instances, as in heavy interurban railway work and in many industrial plants, are exceedingly rapid and severe. In many cases where alternating currents are developed, the advantages of a regulating storage battery are even more pronounced than in direct-current service, for the following reasons: 1. Alternating-current generation is particularly applicable to long distance interurban railway work where steam railroad conditions prevail, involving heavy units operating at comparatively infrequent intervals, producing fluctuations of load abnormally high as compared with the average. These conditions are comparable, except on a largely magnified scale, with those obtaining on the four or five car electric roads so common in the early history of electric railways."
"Many radical changes have accompanied the rapid development of alternating-current generators. In the early days, when alternators were designed by rule-of-thumb methods, the relative proportion of copper to iron was high. These machines had very poor inherent regulation, and in many cases failed to give the voltage for which they were designed. These “copper machines” were relatively light, and were considerably cheaper than the “iron machines” which succeeded them. The iron machines, though much heavier and more expensive than their predecessors, had much better regulation. Following this, the characteristics of alternators were more carefully studied so that the designer was able to reduce the weight and again approach the copper machine. Competition between the various manufacturing companies made it necessary for their engineers to design cheaper machines, resulting in a compromise between the “copper” and “iron” machines. We are now at this period, and the designer is to-day confronted with the question: what shall be the relative proportions of copper and iron in this machine? Doubtless the answer is, so to proportion the iron and copper as to obtain the cheapest possible machine."
"Before the work of designing a tower or pole for a given transmission line can proceed, a statement must be made setting forth the loads which the structure should be capable of withstanding. This statement is, in general, based on a forecast of the probable extreme weather conditions which may occur in the vicinity of the line, and also on a prediction as to what accidents will probably occur to the conductors of the line."
"The specification herein proposed as standard for the testing of high-voltage line insulators was written at the request of the chairman of the High Tension Transmission Committee in order to bring this matter before the Institute for discussion. It is not presented as representing the writer's personal opinion so much as an endeavor to harmonize information which he has obtained from various sources with the view of producing such a specification. Quite a large number of porcelain manufacturers and others interested in the testing and use of high-voltage porcelain line insulators in this country and in various parts of Europe have been consulted, and the information received is embodied as far as possible in the proposed specifications. It is fully appreciated that differences of opinion may exist on any point which is incorporated in such a specification. The fact that such differences do exist, and that tests are so different in different places, seems to the writer to be ample justification for the attempt at a specification which can be used by all as a standard of reference."
"In the autumn of 1896, the writer of this paper undertook an investigation of the phenomena existing when transmission line conductors are subjected to high alternating voltages. The work was carried on near Telluride, Colorado, and extended over a period of about a year. The results of this work were embodied in a report made by the writer in 1897."
"It has been aptly stated that in order to build a hydroelectric power system there are three fundamental requirements: 1. A sufficient source of power. 2. A market for the sale of power within economical transmitting distance. 3. The necessary capital."
"A century ago higher education in American colleges and universities aimed primarily to develop a man for the professional life of a preacher, a doctor, a lawyer, a teacher, a writer, or a philosopher. Colleges and universities responded to the demands of the life of that time. A college bred man occasionally, from choice or through circumstances, entered business activities, but the direction of the commerce and industry of the country rested chiefly with those who had worked their way up to important positions through all the steps of practical commercial and industrial life. The advantages of the broad culture and of the power of observing and reasoning, secured and developed in institutions of higher learning, were very little recognized in commercial and industrial work; and the mathematical and physical knowledge with which the colleges equipped their graduates found comparatively little call in the business activities."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
