"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Seattle Section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, in conjunction with the Northwest Electric Light & Power Association, has made arrangements to maintain a booth on the grounds of t h e Alaska-Yukon Pacific Exposition, for t h e benefit of visiting electrical men. The booth is located in t h e northeast corner of Machinery Hall, and bears the emblems of the A.I.E.E. and t h e N.W.E.L.&P.A. All visiting electrical men are cordially invited to call at this booth, where information regarding electrical development in the northwest will be available. Arrangements have also been made with the Exposition authorities for three electrical days. The dates set aside are September 7, 8 and 9. Institute members who may be in Seattle or vicinity on these dates are urged to attend the Exposition and take part in the meetings of t h e Section. Such members as may wish to present a paper at one of these Section meetings will be particularly welcome, and they are requested to communicate with the Secretary of the Institute. A special invitation is also extended t o Institute members, while in Seattle, to make use of t h e headquarters of the Seattle Section, in the Central Building."
"The Twenty-sixth annual convention of the AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS will be held at the Hotel Frontenac, Frontenac, Thousand Islands, N. Y., from June 28 to July 1, 1909."
"The May meeting of the Boston Section was held on May 19, with a total attendance of 90, Professor A. E. Kennelly in t h e chair. The following officers were elected for the year 1909–10: Chairman, D. C. Jackson; vicechairman, J. W. Corning; secretary and treasurer, A. L. Pearson; executive committee, J. F. Vaughan, N. J. Neall, L. L. Elden, N. B. Ayres, G. W. Palmer. At the conclusion of t h e business session, Professor E. E. F. Creighton, of Union University, Schenectady, presented a paper on “Demonstrations of Lightning Phenomena.”"
"Applications have been received by the secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting."
"MR. FOSTER VEITENHEIMER, of the Signal Corps, U. S. Army, has been transferred from Fort Preble, Maine, to Fort H. G. Wright, N. Y."
"Charles Luman Buckingham, a charter member of the Institute, died at his home at 104 East Eighty-first Street, New York City, on May 31. He was born at Berlin Heights, Ohio, on October 14, 1852, and was educated at the University of Michigan and the Columbian University. He made a specialty of patent law, and was counsel for the Western Union Telegraph Company in many of its important patent suits early in the '80s. He was also counsel for the General Electric Company, the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, the Edison companies, and many others. He became a charter member of the Institute on April 15, 1884, when its first meeting was held, and the following year he was elected a manager, serving one term on the Council, 1885–8. He was one of five who purchased for donation to the library of the A. I. E. E., a valuable classified collection of all the United States electrical patents issued down to 1891, numbering more than one hundred volumes. He was also a member of the Ohio Society, the Metropolitan Club of Washington, and the University Club. The funeral services were held on Thursday evening, June 3, in the Madison Avenue Reformed Church, Fifty-seventh Street, New York City, and the interment took place at Woodlawn Cemetery on June 4. One of his sons, Henry H. Buckingham, is a student at Cornell University."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment:"
"It is well known that when an electrically heated wire is supported in air, it dissipates its heat by conduction, radiation and convection. Conduction takes place longitudinally through and into the metallic terminals of the wire, and would take place laterally through the air, if the latter were kept at rest like a rigid medium. The metallic conduction at the ends may be eliminated by confining observation to parts of the wire not near the ends. The lateral conduction through the air is also negligible, because the air does not remain at rest but expands and flows convectively. Consequently we may safely ignore conductive thermal loss."
"The theory of the single-phase induction motor has, until recently, been complicated by the general use of Ferrari's expedient of resolving the impressed alternating magnetic field into forwardly and backwardly rotating components; this conception, though it leads to correct results if consistently handled, is open to the objection that it departs unnecessarily from the physical facts, and gives rise to the notion that the ordinary laws of electromagnetic induction are not immediately applicable, as in the direct-current machine. Within the last few years, however, the tendency in treating this problem has been to go back to first principles, and several valuable contributions have appeared, notably those of Fynn and McAllister. The following treatment has been based largely on the theory advanced by Fynn in his several publications."
"Several experimenters have investigated the phenomena of corona and published very complete results of their investigations, which, however, have been confined almost entirely to the conditions found in transmission lines. The experiments recently made by the authors, some of which will be described in this paper, were not undertaken with any idea to add to the available information applicable to transmission lines, but rather with reference to apparatus, and especially static transformers."
"The tests in this paper were taken from a 9-in. merchant mill, a plan of which is shown in Fig. 1. The mill consists of seven stands of three-high rolls and one finishing stand of two-high rolls driven by a two-speed two-phase, 60-cycle, 2200-volt induction motor of squirrel-cage rotor construction, connected to the mill by means of a 42-in. three-ply belt. The ratings of the motor are 600 h. p. at 600 rev. per min. (synchronous speed) and 450 h. p. 450 rev. per min. The pulley reduction gives a mill-speed of one-half these values."
"The first electric-driven steel rolling mill in the United States was installed about four years ago by the Carnegie Steel Company at their Edgar Thomson Works. Since then a number of other electric mill drives have been installed and run with entire success, a noteworthy example being found at the steel plant at Gary, Indiana."
"Protection is extremely important in the steel mill where conditions are necessarily uncleanly, and electrical apparatus must work in the midst of dust, moisture, and gases. Large motors should be enclosed in solidly built tight compartments, ventilated by clean air if necessary, or should be of the totally enclosed type."
"The method of connecting the shape of the flux distribution curve of a synchronous converter with the shape of its induced electromotive force wave, developed by the writer in his Atlantic City paper,∗ is here applied more specifically to the alternator, with an illustration taken from Mr. Bache-Wiig's Atlantic City paper on the “Application of Fractional Pitch Windings to Alternating-Current Generators”. Parts of the explanation of the method are reproduced in a somewhat modified and condensed form for the benefit of those who did not read the other paper."
"It is well known that if the wave-shape or the frequency varies from the normal, the loss in a transformer core at normal voltage varies also. It is obvious, however, that the normal loss, that is, the loss with the sine-wave shape and the normal frequency of, say, 60 cycles, can be obtained under the abnormal conditions of wave shape and frequency by either raising or lowering the voltage. What is needed then, is an indicator which will enable the voltage to be so adjusted that the loss in a transfomer core as measured upon an ordinary wattmeter will be the same as it would be at normal voltage on a circuit having a sine-wave shape of normal frequency."
"Up to the present time comparatively little attention has been devoted to single-phase motors having shunt characteristics, as they have been completely overshadowed by the series type, on account of its utility for traction purposes. Nevertheless, these shunt-wound machines have many advantageous features and should have a considerable field of utility. A certain amount of work has been done on them by Milch in this country and by Latour, Fynn and Punga in Europe, and considerable success has been attained in compensating the machine, that is, in raising the power factor to unity."
"The investigations referred to later in this paper were begun by the authors early in the summer of 1908 and covered a period of from eight to ten weeks. The system of the United Electric Light & Power Company, of New York City, seemed particularly desirable for this class of investigation, as it is the largest alternating-current light and power system that is entirely underground and therefore subject to the particular class of phenomena treated by the paper; moreover, it is without the variations that might be encountered in a system having a part of its lines overhead."
"Education is not the learning of a trade or profession, but is the development of the intellect and the broadening of the mind, afforded by a general knowledge of all the subjects of interest to the human race, as required to enable a man to intelligently attack and solve problems in which no previous detail experience guides, and to decide the questions arising in his intellectual, social, and industrial life by impartially weighing the different factors and judge their relative importance. These problems, and thus the educational preparation required to cope with them, are practically the same in all walks of life, and the general education of mind and intellect, required by the engineer, the lawyer, the physician, etc., thus is essentially the same. The only legitimate differences in the training for the life's work, required by the different professions, thus are those pertaining to the specific instruction and study of the details of the particular branch of human knowledge, by which the student desires to make his living."
"Inasmuch as the paper presented by B. R. Shover before the Institute at the meeting in New York on March 12, 1909, gave a general description of the power plant at Gary, including a brief outline of the storage-battery and regulating apparatus, and the paper presented by the writer at the 25th annual convention of the Institute in 1908, set forth the general theory of the operation of this storage-battery regulating apparatus, it has seemed advisable in this paper, after a brief description of the battery plant and accessories, to dwell more particularly upon a few of the features which have not as yet been fully described, and then to give an account of the actual commercial operation."
"The conditions governing the operation of the open link fuse and the enclosed fuse are radically different. That such a difference exists is due largely to the presence in the latter of a confining case of relatively small dimensions and of a material, the porous filling, which acts in two capacities: first, to disintegrate the vaporized metal; secondly, to condense or cool it and render it non-conducting."
"To those not closely in touch with the telephone situation to-day, the importance of the modern telephone cable may be indicated by stating that of the 8,000,000 miles of wire in the exchange plants of the Associated Bell telephone companies, more than 6,800,000 miles are in the form of underground, aerial, or submarine cable. These figures refer solely to the wire used for outside construction and do not include the thousands of miles of wire in cable form employed in central offices or the wiring of large buildings."
"In the usual presentation and consideration of wave-forms in alternating-current circuits we are so used to the mathematical expressions which omit the second, fourth, sixth, etc. harmonics and so generally assume that these even harmonics can be neglected at the outset, that a short consideration of usual and special conditions, giving rise to even harmonics in alternating-current circuits, seems opportune."
"The induction motor, as generally used, has a speed which varies slightly with the load but which is usually spoken of as being constant. For work where variable speed is required, a motor with collector rings is used, the speed variation being produced by varying the amount of resistance inserted in the secondary circuit. Such a motor is wasteful of power whenever resistance is used, and the speed varies greatly with the load when much reduction in speed is required."
"Modern requirements make it necessary to measure alternating current, volts, and watts on circuits where the magnitude of these quantities and the safety of the operator require that some means be provided so that the instruments used are not directly connected to the circuit. In certain special measurements it may be found accurate and convenient to use resistances to multiply the indications of the instrument, these resistances being used as shunts to the current coil or in the potential coils of voltmeters or wattmeters."
"Of the various systems for controlling electric motors, none surpass in interest and economic importance those which make use of electrically actuated switches controlled by automatic or semi-automatic means. A few years ago the drum controller was quite sufficient for any motor then in use. Since then the use of larger motors and the need for automatic features, unattainable in a simple manner with drum controllers, have resulted in the development of a great variety of magnetically controlled switches, and of various means for operating them in control systems."
"The object of this paper is to discuss the conditions which should be realized in the measurement of energy losses in sheet-iron and steel subjected to alternating magnetization, with a description of a modification of the Epstein method and apparatus. This method is believed to better satisfy the desired conditions and to give an accuracy of one per cent with the use of less than two kilograms (4.4 lb.) of material."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"MR. LEWIS B. STILL WELL, President, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 100 Broadway, New York City. DEAR SIR:"
"The advantages of a high loadfactor are so manifest as to require no discussion. During the last 10 years great advances have been made in methods of attaining a load-factor of 100 per cent, by t he use of household labor-savers that depend upon electric current as their source of power. Perhaps the greatest increase in the day load for the central station has been due to the installation of motors for industrial purposes, although the time of demand for power by these motors during the winter overlaps the time of demand for lighting current, thus increasing somewhat the peak load, yet the average load-factor has been bettered by their installation. From midnight to dawn there is little demand for electric power from the central station, and electric power that could be furnished between the hours of 12:00 at night and 6:00 in the morning, would greatly improve the loadfactors of central stations and increase their revenue accordingly. The electric vehicle can be made the means of establishing a load for that part of the twenty-four hours, when it is most desirable for the central station company to furnish it. By the use of the electric vehicle the load is taken off the peak indirectly by filling in that portion of the time when there is small demand for power of any kind."
"UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS BRANCH A reorganization of this Branch was effected at a special meeting held on October 5, 1909, at which 2 2 members were present. Mr. W. B. Stelzner, professor of electrical engineering in the university, was elected chairman. Mr. F. S. White was reelected secretary. Professor W. N. Gladson outlined the work of the Branch for the coming year and spoke of the benefits to be derived by the students from participation in its work. He then conducted some interesting experiments in magnetism and electric welding. The program was concluded with a talk by Mr. Stelzner in which he described the experiences of a new man entering the General Electric Company's works at Schenectady. The Branch will hold meetings on the first and third Thursdays of every month."
"A most valuable addition to the Institute library has been received from the Western Electric Company. The gift is a patent specification library, and is the largest and most valuable accession since the gift of the Latimer Clark collection, by Dr. Schuyler Skaats Wheeler."
"CHARLES STRONG has removed from Mexico City to Fulton, Mo., where he is chief engineer of Hospital No. 1."
"Mr. FRANK N. SIMPSON, of Janesville, Iowa, died on June 10, 1909. Mr. Simpson was born in Janesville, and after graduating from the Iowa State Normal School he went to Denver, Colo., where he entered the employ of Albert Sechrist & Company and engaged in general electrical construction. He remained with this concern for four years. Removing to Minneapolis, Mr. Simpson took a position with the Minneapolis General Electric Company. For the last four of his thirteen years of service with this company he was superintendent of electric power. He became an Associate of the Institute on June 21, 1907."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The first three-phase installation on a trunk line railway in the United States was put into operation early in July of this year at the Cascade Mountain tunnel on the Great Northern Railway, in the State of Washington, about one hundred miles east of Seattle."
"The subject that I wish to discuss in this paper is the protection of electrical apparatus and transmission lines from the danger of breakdown to which such apparatus is subjected by electrical surges. The most frequent and severe source of electrical surges is lightning. There are other causes, arising from the operation of a transmission line and the electrical apparatus that goes with it to make up a complete plant. For instance, switching, particularly on the high-tension side, may give rise to surges. Also grounding of high-tension transmission lines, particularly if the ground be an arcing one; for instance, such as would occur were the limb of a green tree to come occasionally in contact with one of the conductors of the line. Also a short-circuit on the transmission line or on other electrical apparatus may give rise to an electrical surge."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The two-hundred and thirty-fifth meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York City, on Friday, March 12, 1909, at 8 o'clock p.m. Mr. Barton R. Shover, electrical engineer of the Indiana Steel Company, will present a paper entitled “The Industrial Application of the Electric Motor as Illustrated in the Gary Plant of the Indiana Steel Company” The paper is printed in this issue of the PROCEEDINGS, in Section II. It deals with the many novel features of the electrical installations in the Gary plant, undoubtedly the largest steel-making plant in the world. One of the most interesting features of this plant is the electrical equipment of the rail-mill. This mill has a capacity of 4,000 tons of finished rails every 24 hours. The rails are rolled directly from the ingot without reheating, the roll-trains being direct-connected to the largest induction motors ever made. Some of these motors are of 2,000 h.p. capacity; others have a capacity of 6,000 h.p. All of the motors are operated at a pressure of 6600 volts."
"On Wednesday evening, March 24, 1909, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, will hold a joint meeting in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, New York. The topic to be discussed is the Conservation of Natural Resources. A representative from each society will present a paper in regard to some specific feature of this vital economic problem. All four societies have announced the names of their representatives and the titles of the papers to be presented. The authors and titles are:"
"The April meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in New York City, April 9, 1909. This meeting will be under the auspices of the HIGH-TENSION TRANSMISSION COMMITTEE. The following papers will be read:"
"The object of this paper is to assemble in a form convenient for comparison and discussion the various systems of high-tension transmission in the Northwest, and to discuss the relative merits and defects of each system. As each section of the country has its own characteristic set of climatic and industrial conditions, transmission practice features that are economical and good practice in one section may be more or less unsuitable in another section."
"I have been asked to speak to the Section members to-night regarding “Pioneer Developments within the General Electric Company.” I have attempted many different lines of work since the beginning of my business career, some 28 years ago, but this is the first time I have tried to fill the post of historian. Dr. Steinmetz has said that he always likes to play the rôle of a prophet, because to be a successful prophet it is only necessary to put the date of your prophesies far enough in the future to insure that all your present listeners will be dead."
"At the regular meeting of this Branch, held January 7, 1909, Mr. A. P. Strong read a paper on “The Design of the Conduit System for a Multi-office Telephone System.” He first took up the two methods of laying conduits; the one based on present needs, and the other on those of the future. A method of making estimates of future business from the population and conditions in the districts under consideration was discussed. The question of deciding between a central office system and a multiple office system was then considered, and it was shown that the conditions in a large city favor the latter. The economical distribution of office, was the next point taken up, and the conclusion was reached that, in general, the best location is at the line center or center of distribution."
"The growth of the Institute in recent years and the wide extension of its membership geographically have made it difficult in many cases for the Board of Examiners to pass with justice upon all applications for election as Associates and for transfer from the grade of Associate to that of Member."
"Mr. William Pestell has associated himself with the Boston office of the Allis-Chalmers Company, 50 Congress Street, Boston, Mass."
"CLARENCE EDMUND GIFFORD, Member of the Institute, died at the home of his parents 236 Fulton Street, Jamestown, N. Y., on January 23, 1909, after several years of enfeebled health. He was born at Jamestown, N. Y., April 18, 1853, son of Walter C. and Eliza C. (Robertson) Gifford. His preliminary education was received at Jamestown high school. Having an ambition for a professional career, he took the course in civil engineering at Cornell University, graduating from that institution in 1876. For the next two years he engaged in civil engineering. His interest then being aroused by the possibilities of the electrical field, then developing, he directed his energies to telephone engineering. In 1888 he turned his attention to the broader field of lighting and power engineering, to which he devoted himself for the succeeding 15 years."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgement:"
"Introduction and historical. Twenty years ago electricity, except for lighting purposes, was virtually unknown to the iron and steel industries, while to-day in all of the steel works in this country it is used as a motive power for most of the auxiliary machinery, from the ore docks to the loading beds. The electric drive is utilized in ore unloaders, ore bridges, car dumpers, bin-filling cars, scale larries, blast-furnace skips, hot-metal mixers, electric cranes of all sizes and descriptions, open-hearth charging machines, ingot buggies, gas producers, roller tables, lifting tables, transfers, hot-bed apparatus — in short, a multitude of machines too numerous to mention here. This development has been such that it would probably be no exaggeration to say that the steel industry in this country would never have reached its present proportions without the use of electric motors. As a further gauge of progress, it is significant that the larger electric manufacturing companies have been forced to establish special departments to look after the business of the steel industries."
"The following paper is to be read at the regular meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in New York City, April 9, 1909. This meeting is to be held under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"The manufacture of apparatus for pressures of 88,000 volts or more resolves itself into the proper selection and arrangement of insulating materials. Of all the problems involved in this selection and arrangement, that of insulating the terminal wires where they pass through the case presents the greatest difficulty. When the terminal wires are carried through a metal cover the danger from breakdown is increased, yet the tendency of the latest designs is toward the use of metal tanks and covers. Even with present voltages the greatest difficulty lies in bringing out the terminal wires through the case. What may be termed “brute force” has characterized the proportioning of high-tension terminals up to the present time, as almost every class of insulating material in nearly every possible shape has been used to surround the conductor as it passes through the top of the case. The top itself has often been made of insulating material such as wood, simply to assist in insulating the lead."
"The following paper is to be read at the regular meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in New York City, April 9, 1909. This meeting is to be held under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"Outdoor or weatherproof transformers for ordinary distributing purposes, and for potentials up to about 2500 volts, have long been in general service. With the exception of arc lamps and series incandescent lamps, transformers have been about the only apparatus in high-tension service not protected by buildings. Distributing circuits operating at 6600 volts are now quite common. There are also a few 10,000-volt, and a small number of 15,000-volt distributing systems using outdoor transformers."
"Elihu Thomson: The paper I have to present is in large measure incomplete. It is merely a sketch or outline, and much of it is historical, going back to the early days of the inception of the art which this Institute represents. It was thought it would be well to bring together in one paper and place upon the records of the Institute some of the historical facts connected with the subject treated in the paper."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Secretary Ralph W. Pope, accompanied by Past-president Chas. F. Scott and Vice-president Paul M. Lincoln attended a joint meeting of the Seattle Section and the Northwest Electric Light and Power Association at the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition on September 7, 8, and 9. On September 11, Mr. Pope visited. the Portland, Oregon, Section, on September 15 and 16 the San Francisco Section, and, one week later, the Los Angeles Section. He will visit the St. Louis Section on October 9, stopping en route from Los Angeles at Stanford University, Visalia, Salt Lake City, and Denver. An extended account of this tour will appear in t h e November PROCEEDINGS."
"Applications have been received by the- secretary from the following candid ates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting. Any member or Associate objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the secretary before November 1, 1909."
"The first regular meeting of the Fort Wayne Section for the year 1909–1910 was held on Thursday evening, September 9, 1909. The paper of the evening, entitled Volcanic Energy was presented by Mr. J. J. Kline. Mr. Kline described some of the well known volcanoes and the various localities in which they are found on the earth. A number of stereoptican views which he had brought with him from his recent trip to Japan served to illustrate the lecture."
"MR. ROBERT HAWXHURST, JR. has resigned the management of the Poderosa Mining Company of Chile, and has returned to London."
"MR. SAMUEL J. HOUSTON, an Associate, died at his home, 6 Gillespie Street, Schenectady, X. Y., on Friday, September 3, 1909. Mr. Houston was born in Raphoe, Donegal County, Ireland, on April 7, 1861. After graduating from Trinity College, Dublin, he came to this country and entered the employ of the Thomson-Houston Company, which afterward was merged with the General Electric Company. In 1888 he located in St. Louis as a construction engineer, and in 1893 he installed and had in charge the moving sidewalk at the Columbian Exposition at Chicago. In 1900 he went to India, where he installed the 90 mile transmission line of the Cauvery Falls Power Scheme. He returned to this country in 1906, and for some time was associated with the Dayton Lighting Company, Dayton, Ohio. For t he last two years he was a resident of Schenectady, and was in the construction department of the General Electric Company. Mr. Houston became an Associate of the Institute on October 23, 1903. He is survived by his widow, one sister, Mrs. A. Porterfield, of Raphoe, Ireland, and one brother, Andrew A. Houston, of Saskatchewan, Canada. The body was sent to Cleveland, Ohio, for interment."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"General. In the early days of the electrical industry the telegraph practically had the field to itself. The telephone and electric light were introduced at about the same time, and later on the alternating-current systems gradually came into general use for lighting, general power, and railway purposes. At the outset, the telegraph systems made use of earth return and continue to do so at the present day. The telephone systems started out using an earth return, but soon found that satisfactory service, except in isolated cases, could be obtained only with metallic circuits. The power systems (this term includes alternating-current systems whether used for lighting, for power or for railway purposes) have until recently almost invariably used metallic circuits, which, when properly installed and under normal conditions, cause little interference to telegraph and telephone lines. Abnormal conditions, however, such as grounds, open circuits, and the like, upset the normal balance, giving strong external fields, both electrostatic and electromagnetic, which are likely to make trouble for sensitive systems in the immediate neighborhood. Recently the single-phase railway system has come into prominence. With this system the conditions are continuously very similar to those conditions which exist occasionally but of short duration on the power systems."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"On pages 681–698 of this PROCEEDINGS will be found the annual report of the Board of Directors for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1909. This report consists partly of abstracts containing the gist of the more extended reports submitted by the nine standing committees and eleven of the special committees appointed in accordance with Article VII, Sections 41 and 46 of the Constitution. The reports of the Finance Committee and the Library Committee are printed in full. The report of the Finance Committee shows the monetary affairs of the Institute to be in excellent condition. The receipts per member were $13.21, or $0.20 greater than the receipts per member for the previous year. The disbursements per member were $10.49, or $1.24 less than the disbursements per member for the previous year."
"The Twenty-sixth annual convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held at the Hotel Frontenac, Frontenac, Thousand Islands, N. Y., from June 28 to July 1, 1909."
"The two hundred and thirty-seventh regular, and twenty-sixth annual meeting, of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York City, Tuesday, May 18, 1909. President Ferguson presided, and called the meeting to order at 8 p.m. The secretary announced that at the meeting of the Board of Directors held in the afternoon 151 Associates were elected, and two Associates were transferred to the grade of Member. Those present at the directors' meeting were: President Louis A. Ferguson, Chicago, Ill.; Past-President Henry G. Stott, New York City; Vice-Presidents James G. White, New York; W. C. L. Eglin, Philadelphia, Pa., Calvert Townley, New Haven, Conn.; Managers Paul M. Lincoln, Pittsburgh, Pa., Paul Spencer, Philadelphia, Pa., William S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., Percy H. Thomas, New York, W. G. Carlton, New York, Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y., H. E. Clifford, Boston, Mass.; Treasurer George A. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J., Secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York. The secretary then presented the annual report of the Board of Directors, which on motion duly seconded was accepted. This was followed by the report of the Committee of Tellers on the election of officers of the Institute. The secretary announced that he had received 578 proxies, of which 503 were valid, constituting a legal quorum. The report of the Committee of Tellers follows."
"The appearance of a radically novel and really great invention which pioneers a new industry or which effects remarkable results in the service of man, is invariably and inevitably followed, when brought into commercial use, by a host of more or less direct satellite improvements, real or fancied, and supplemental or accessory inventions, to make such use more effective, convenient and profitable. This statement expresses so general a truth that the magnitude of the environment of subsidiary invention thus stimulated, ultimately affords, in some degree at least, a rough measure of the consequence, merit, and usefulness of the primary invention or discovery so supported."
"The United States Civil Service Commission announces an examination on June 9, 1909, to secure eligibles from which to make certification to fill a vacancy in the position of electrical expert (wireless telegraphy), in the Bureau of Equipment, Navy Department, at a salary of $3,000 per annum, and vacancies requiring similar qualifications as they may occur."
"At the meeting of the Branch held on April 22, Mr. G. E. Marsh delivered a lecture on the “Pinch Interrupter”, a name used to designate the so-called electrolytic type of interrupter by reason of the phenomenon on which the apparatus operates. The general nature of the pinch phenomenon, which may be defined as the contraction in the cross-sectional area of a liquid conductor when the current passing through it is sufficiently large, was described in detail. The mathematical relations connecting the various factors and several equations were shown by means of their graphs, which indicated the involved relationships. The active pressure directed along the axis of a liquid conductor in consequence of this pinch effect was exhibited by means of a modified interrupter. The latter part of the paper dealt with the constructional features of the apparatus. The dependency of the frequency on the size of aperture, and the current density and inductance of the circuit were pointed out, as well as the high capacity effect displayed by the apparatus when operating under certain conditions. The interrupter was of a construction that involved several new and marked features which contribute to its successful operation over long periods. The lecture was followed by a general discussion."
"MR. J. M. FRIED is special lamp salesman for the General Electric Company, Harrison, N. J."
"ARTHUR WARREN KENDALL PEIRCE, a well-known American engineer, and a Member of the Institute, died at his residence at Driehoek, Transvaal, South Africa, on April 13, 1909. Mr. Peirce had been located in South Africa since 1897. Early this spring he developed symptoms of veridigris poisoning, which was followed by an attack of bacterial malaria. The complication affected his heart, and death resulted. He was born in West Boylston, Mass., on November 19, 1873. His preliminary education was acquired in the Plymouth, Mass. high school, and his technical education by home study and experience in the engineering departments of various electrical companies. In July, 1897, he was appointed electrician to the Knights Deep, Ltd., a gold mining company in Transvaal, South Africa. A year later he became consulting electrical engineer to the Consolidated Gold Fields of South Africa, Ltd., a corporation controlling a number of mines in the Transvaal."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The limitations of the power transmission line as to distance, power, and voltage, and its characteristics as to voltage-variation and energy-loss, have always excited a great deal of interest in the electrical art. The subject has been treated by a number of prominent engineers in its various phases, notable among these being Scott, Perrine, Steinmetz, and Mershon. These men and others have done pioneer work and have outlined the general limiting conditions of transmission. There are some of the relations and peculiarities of the long line, however, that are of importance and interest which have not, to the writer's knowledge, been clearly presented before electrical engineers. It is the object of the present paper to discuss some of these features, more especially the line-output, regulation or voltage-variation, and the line energy-loss."
"Neglecting matters of cost, the electrical performance of the high-tension transmission line becomes the critical factor as the quantity of power and distance of transmission become large. The loss and variation of voltage and, to a lesser extent, perhaps, the loss of energy in the line tend to become the dominating features. A careful study of these characteristics is thus most important in planning such a transmission. It is the purpose of the present paper to discuss the calculation of the high-tension line as relating to the important matters of regulation and energy line loss, and with especial reference to the unusually long and high-power lines. For this purpose certain new formulas suited for practical calculations are derived."
"It has been asserted frequently that no form of iron protective covering is permissible for single conductors carrying alternating currents. Experience and simple calculation show this assertion to be well founded with regard to even the thinnest walls, if such walls form a completely closed magnetic circuit about the conductor. In a recent single-phase railway installation it was necessary to carry the trolley circuit across a drawbridge and the nature of the traffic through the draw rendered it advisable to armor the cables, several of which were to be installed for reserve and emergency. Obviously, the use of single-conductor, steel-armored cables was permissible if the reactance and losses in the armor were not prohibitive. There being an apparent absence of data on the subject, and some opinion adverse to the use of such cables, the values of reactance were calculated as explained below. The results showed that even at 60 cycles, and with outgoing and return cables placed close together, the reactance would not be serious; and the subsequent measurements indicate that in cables as manufactured the effect is considerably less than the calculated value, so that for purposes similar to that mentioned the use of the cables is entirely practical."
"It is well-known that polyphase motors of both induction and synchronous types overheat when supplied from circuits in which the ideal conditions of voltage balance and phase angle are not maintained. In order to determine definitely the performance under other than ideal conditions, and to ascertain the points at which overheating commences, a series of tests was run under varying conditions of voltage unbalance, unsymmetrical angular relations between phases, and combinations of these two."
"It is well known that the iron losses in all kinds of electric motors and generators are invariably much greater than those calculated from iron-loss curves, such as are obtained from tests of samples of iron, unless an allowance is made for additional losses."
"The statement is frequently made that 25-cycle alternators are more expensive than 60-cycle machines built for the same output, speed, voltage, and phase. A considerable difference of opinion exists at the present time as to how much more the low-frequency machine should cost than the corresponding high-frequency machine. When an attempt is made to analyze conditions, by examining the cost records of machines built by a large manufacturing company, one is confronted by a maze of figures which assist but little toward solving the problem. This is not at all surprising when one considers the many changes which have accompanied the rapid development of alternating-current generators. Some machines have a relatively great amount of iron, while others have a relatively great amount of copper; there is considerable difference in the results obtained from the various methods used for ventilating alternators; some are much more liberal as regards heating, or voltage margin, or regulation, than others; the excitation differs appreciably in machines for nearly the same rating; some were built when material and labor were high, etc. In this paper an attempt has been made to eliminate, as far as possible, some of these variables."
"The object of this paper is to show the limitations imposed on the designer of induction motors by the heating of the machine, and also to show how this heating may be predetermined."
"For all kinds of motor drives and particularly for rolling-mill service, where the load conditions are very unstable, the use of a suitable fly-wheel is of great importance. As is well known, the function of a fly-wheel is to take up the sudden shocks and equalize the unsteady loads as much as practicable in order to produce the cheapest installation and obtain the most satisfactory and economical operation. The smallest size of motor and the minimum capacity of the generating plant are obtained when the action of the fly-wheel is such that the load on the motor is constant and equal to the average of all the loads. To a certain extent this will be impossible in rolling mills, and it will be the problem for the engineer to determine the most suitable size of fly-wheel, motor, and generating plant with the auxiliary equipments."
"A characteristic feature of the electrical developments of late years has been the extension of the use of alternating-current to every field where it is practicable. The reasons for this preference for alternating current are so well known that reference need only be made: first, to the advantages of the distribution system; and second, to the fact that the best and most reliable of all motors is the induction motor."
"Before entering into a description of the form of generator dealt with in this paper, it may be of interest to give a short review of the history of the high-frequency alternator. Heretofore the 10,000-cycle machine has represented the highest frequency in commercial use. Such a machine was developed by one of the electrical manufacturing companies in 1900 and a number of them are now in service. A similar machine for 10,000 cycles was described by Lamme in a paper before the Institute in 1901.∗ Reference may be made particularly to a paper by Dudell read before the Physical Society of London, giving a synopsis of his work with this kind of apparatus and describing the experiments made by him."
"The boiler plant of the traction company which operates the street-car system of Cleveland, Ohio, is representative of modern practice in both the nature of the equipment installed and the means employed in handling and firing coal. Of the total cost of manufacturing a kilowatt-hour in this plant, exclusive of investment charges, taxes and insurance, the fuel item amounts substantially to 70 per cent. The calorific value of the fuel used is obviously of the utmost importance, and to insure a supply of coal having a high thermal value is therefore greatly to be desired. This may be accomplished by making use of one of three means which are at our command:"
"The Board of Directors presents herewith for the information of the membership its annual report, including brief references to the work of the various standing and special committees; also the usual statements showing the financial standing of the organization."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The two hundred and thirty-third meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, on Friday, January 8, 1909, at 8 o'clock p.m. Mr. Elihu Thomson, past-president of the Institute and electrician of the General Electric Company of West Lynn, Mass., will present a paper entitled, “Conditions Affecting Stability in Electric Lighting Circuits.” The paper is printed in this issue of the PROCEEDINGS, pages 1–22, and paper contains an interesting account of the various methods tried during the last 30 years in the effort to obtains tability of current or potential, or both, in electric lighting circuits, circuits whose load is inherently unstable owing to the peculiarity of the arc-resistance falling with increase of current."
"The two hundred and thirty-second regular meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth street, New York, Friday, December 11, 1908. President Ferguson called the meeting to order at 8:00 p.m."
"For a temporary employment extending from a few months to several years, the United States Patent Office offers opportunities which are ideal. Since the profession of engineering is fundamentally the profession of invention, and the engineer's ideas are his capital, or stock in trade, a knowledge of the means of protecting these ideas is of considerable importance. And this knowledge a term in the United States Patent Office gives."
"I went to work for the Boston El. Ry. Co. in the capacity of pitman on the elevated division at Sullivan Square. Now the duties of a pitman are not very inspiring. I thought I was going to start off at least by being with some one who worked on electrical jobs, but these were my first duties. I had a big monkey wrench, a lantern, machinist's hammer, box containing various sizes of cotter keys, nuts, screws, etc., a gauge for measuring the distance apart of wheels. I pounded all wheels to test their soundness, gauged them to see that they had not spread beyond a prescribed limit. I was supposed to have an eye out for missing bolts, nuts, cotter keys and the electrical connections from the third rail shoe to the car body. This latter consisted in shoe, shoe-beam, braid, fuse, and lead. The work was hard as the beams are very heavy and were being constantly changed. The work, was not only hard but very dirty. I was generally one even color all over about one-half hour after starting in to work at night, a greasy black."
"A meeting of this Branch was held on December 3, 1908, in the engineering hall of the university. Mr. T. D. Williamson read an abstract of a paper on “The Manufacture of Okonite.” The various steps in the process of manufacture was illustrated by means of lantern slides. Mr. Paul Mardis read the Institute paper entitled “New Types of Incandescent Lamps.”"
"MR. GEORGE A. BURNHAM has been transferred from the construction department to the engineering staff at the Boston office of the General Electric Company."
"Whereas, Frederick Auten Combs Perrine, as a graduate student at Princeton University, as electrician of the United States Electric Light Company, as manager for John A. Roebling's Sons Company, as treasurer of the Germania Electric Company, as chief engineer of the Standard Electric Company, as president of the Stanley Electric Manufacturing Company, and as professor of electrical engineering in Leland Stanford, Jr. University, was of great influence in raising the standard and in extending the scope of the electrical engineering profession, and"
"A bronze tablet, of beautiful design, in honor of the memory of Andre-Marie Ampere was unveiled by Ambassador Jules J. Jusserand at Ampere, New Jersey, on Thursday, December 3, 1907, in the presence of many members of the Institute, and distinguished citizens of New York and New Jersey, invited guests of the Crocker-Wheeler Company. The tablet was presented to the Lackawanna Railroad by Dr. Schuyler Skaats Wheeler, past president of the Institute and president of the Crocker-Wheeler Company, who in his address paid a well deserved tribute to the work of the celebrated French scientist. The gift was accepted by vice-president Caldwell of the Lackawanna Railroad, who expressed his hearty appreciation of the cordial relations existing between the railroad and the manufacturing company which had founded the leading industry of Ampere. After unveiling the tablet, Mr. Jusserand gave an eloquent address, giving most interesting details of the life of Ampere, who, like the speaker, was a native of Lyons, France."
"For the purpose of giving information to the membership in connection with future nominations for officers of the Institute, after the distribution of the nomination forms, in February, the following by-law was adopted by the Board of Directors November 13, 1908:"
"The following volumes have been received and placed in the Library of the Institute:"
"The term stability in this paper refers to that condition in which the current or potential, or both, remain at a steady value. Instability implies fluctuation which may arise from internal causes or be provoked by slight changes; and the fluctuations so arising may tend to be perpetuated automatically. An example of such action is the well known “surging” in series arc-light circuits, which in the early days of development often became a difficulty."
"B. A. Behrend: Permit me to discuss the paper by Mr. Alexander, suggesting a new method for training engineers by alternating shop work with college work. Let us see how difficult it would be to have such courses at institutions situated far away from manufacturing centers like Cornell, Leland Stanford, University of Wisconsin, or Pennsylvania State College. How could the students in these universities attend the lectures for one week and go into the shops for the next week, or for one month and go into the shop for the next month? There are no shops or manufacturing plants near enough in which the students could pursue practical work, and thus the proposed “Coöperative System” is altogether impossible in a large number of our universities."
"P. M. Lincoln: These papers give a much clearer insight into the theory and expected performance of the so-called “split-pole” synchronous converter than anything which has been produced up to date. With these papers before him, the engineer who contemplates using this type of machine is in much better position to judge of its merits than ever before."
"The function of a fly-wheel in a system with a rapidly fluctuating load is to equalize the power requirements, thus reducing the sudden shocks to the moving parts and thereby the strains on the machine frame and both the mechanical and electrical strains on the driving motor. For the fly-wheel to be effective the speed characteristic of the motor should be such that the motor will slow down as the load increases and will increase in speed as the load decreases. In the case of large shears the full working load is applied suddenly and the fly wheel is called upon to deliver energy through a very short space of time, varying from one-half a second to two seconds, according to the size of the machine and the size and condition of the material cut. Thus it is evident that the speed characteristics of the driving motor must be inherent, as the time is too short to depend upon a practical control means for changing the motor characteristics."
"President Ferguson: The subject for discussion this evening, gentlemen, is not only interesting from a scientific standpoint, but is of great importance commercially, because of its possible influence upon the investment and methods of operation of our large lighting and power systems."
"Adopted by the Board of Directors, April 22, 1904, Amended February 24, 1905, March 24, 1905, February 23, 1906, May 19, 1908, and November 13, 1908."
