"The American Institute of Mining Engineers will hold a meeting in the Canal Zone, Panama, in November, 1910. The steamer Prinz August Wilhelm of the Hamburg-American Steamship Company, accommodating about 150 passengers, has been engaged for the trip, and will sail with the party from New York on October 21, returning to New York about November 15, 1910. The cost of the round trip, including berth in stateroom, meals on steamer, railroad transportation, meals and accommodations at the Hotel Tivoli in the Canal Zone, will be $200 for each member or guest. This rate can be obtained only by those who secure accommodations prior to September 15, after which date an additional charge of $50 per capita must be made. The dates of payments necessary to secure a reservation are $100 not later than September 15, and $100 on October 1. Stops will be made at Havana, Kingston, Colon, Port Limon, and a call at Fortune Island. About 136 persons have made reservations, but there is still room for more in the party, and the members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers are cordially invited to participate in this meeting. As the first week in November belongs to the rainy season, and it may rain hard for brief periods during the visit, members who attend should be provided with water-proof coats and high water-proof foot covering suitable for tramping in mud and water. Thus provided they need not fear the terrors of the rainy season, and they will have an opportunity to see how American engineers deal with such unfavorable climatic conditions. This trip will be of unusual interest to engineers owing to the rapid progress of the work on the canal. The details of the visits and excursions while on the Isthmus and the time and place of the technical sessions of the Institute have not yet been completed. The management of the trip is in the hands of Dr. Joseph Struthers, Assistant Secretary of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, 29 West 39th Street, New York City, to whom remittances and communications should be addressed."
"The Second National Conservation Congress will be held in St. Paul, Minn., September 5 to 9, inclusive, 1910. The objects of this National Conservation Congress will be:"
"Mr. J. B. Cameron has been appointed assistant engineer with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company at Somerset, Pa."
"Albert Spies, engineer, author and editor, died suddenly at his home, 40 Glenwood Ave., Jersey City, N. J., on August 16, 1910. At the time of his death Mr. Spies was proprietor and editor of the newly established Foundry News. Mr. Spies was born in New York, July 20, 1862. In 1881 he graduated from Stevens Institute and was in engineering practice and technical journalism until 1893, when he became editor of Cassier's Magazine. Until the death of Louis Cassier and the subsequent sale in 1906 of Cassier's Magazine and the Electrical Age, Mr. Spies was vice-president, treasurer and managing director of the Cassier Magazine Company and vice-president of the Electrical Age Company. In February 1907 he assumed the editorial conduct of the Electrical Record, continuing until February of this year, when he resigned to bring out his own paper, Foundry News. In 1895 Mr. Spies was married to Miss Gretchen A. Weisker, who, with a son, survives him."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The perfection of the tungsten incandescent lamp as a highly efficient means of converting electrical energy into light has made it a subject of great commercial interest. The tungsten lamp has reached in a comparatively short time a most enviable position in the field of artificial illuminants. It has been developed for multiple use on commercial lighting circuits up to 260 volts, for series street lighting, for low voltage decorative, display and train lighting, and for many other purposes. Its commercial success in all these various applications bears witness to its merit as a convenient and efficient source of illumination and its production and characteristics are consequently worthy of consideration from an engineering standpoint."
"During the year 1908 it became apparent that owing to the cost of increasing traffic in the New York subway, it would be necessary to have additional power available for the winter of 1909–1910."
"For Year Ending April 30, 1910 We submit herewith our report giving the more important features of the growth and operation of the Library for the year ending April 30, 1910, together with a statement of the present condition of the several funds and expenditures for the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The success of the Southern Convention at Charlotte, N. C., leads us to hope for an equally enthusiastic and successful meeting at San Francisco on May 5, 6 and 7, 1910. As announced in previous issues of the Proceedings, the meeting will be under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee, Ralph D. Mershon, Chairman. The members on the Pacific coast have been very active in their preparations for this meeting, and through their efforts, some of the features arranged for will be of unusual interest. In San Francisco visitors will be given an opportunity for sight-seeing trips around the city, which will include visits to the local generating stations, and the Entertainment Committee has arranged for special parties to visit points of unprofessional interest. On the evening of May 6 the San Francisco Section will give a reception to President Lewis B. Stillwell and the visiting members. The Pacific Gas and Electric Company has very kindly arranged for a tour of inspection of several of its mountain plants, and will provide special transportation and entertainment for those making the trip. The party will leave San Francisco on the evening of May 8, and in the course of the tour will make a side trip to the Big Bend plant of the Great Western Power Company, as guests of the latter company. The entire trip will require four days. Arrangements have also been made for members who visit Seattle, Portland and Los Angeles, to be accorded the privilege of inspecting electrical plants in these cities."
"Upon the recommendation of the committee appointed by President Stillwell early in February to consider and report on a suitable date and place for the Annual Convention of the A.I.E.E. for 1910, it was decided by the Board of Directors at its meeting on April 15, 1910, that the convention will be held at The Waumbeck and Cottages, Jefferson, N. H., in the White Mountain district, on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, June 27, 28, 29 and 30, 1910. The White Mountains are too well known to warrant any description here. The Waumbeck is delightfully situated, at an altitude of 1,500 feet, and affords a magnificent view of the mountains. The hotel and cottages are equipped with every convenience and comfort and pleasure seekers will find ample opportunity for diversion in golfing, fishing, trap-shooting, and rambling, riding and driving in the mountains. Jefferson is distant from New York about 10 hours on the train, from Boston seven hours, and from Philadelphia, 12 hours."
"The meeting of the Institute at Charlotte which opened on March 31 exceeded the anticipations of the Institute officers, especially in the attendance from distant points. The usual date of the Annual Convention during the last week in June has discouraged any recent' attempt to hold it in the South. President Stillwell satisfied himself that a special meeting in that territory during the Easter holidays would strengthen the Institute, and lead to the development of greater interest in its affairs. A sufficient number of members could not be concentrated from the North to warrant the running of a special train over the Southern Railway, so that proposed feature of the program was necessarily abandoned. The Secretary left Washington on March 29, where he was joined by a delegation of 15 from Pittsburg, arriving at Charlotte, N. C., in the evening where they were met by the Local Committee and escorted to the Hotel Selwyn."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Institute Board of Directors was held at 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Friday, April 15, 1910. The directors present were: President Lewis B. Stillwell, New York; Past-president Henry G. Stott, New York; Vice-presidents Paul Spencer, Philadelphia, Pa., Calvert Townley, New Haven, Conn.; Managers H. W. Buck, New York, Percy H. Thomas, New York, D. B. Rushmore, Schenectady, N. Y., W. G. Carlton, New York, Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y., A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., W. S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., H. H. Norris, Ithaca, N. Y., Severn D. Sprong, New York; Treasurer George A. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J.; Secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"Aber, Guy Le Roy, Electrical Contractor, Guy L. Aber & Co., Liberty St.; res., 22 W. Morris St., Bath, New York."
"University of Arkansas Branch The University of Arkansas Branch held its regular meeting on March 15, 1910. Mr. H. C. Lamberton read a paper on “Block Signalling.” Mr. C. A. Moreland reviewed recent technical publications. Mr. S.B. Graham followed with a paper on “Automatic Telephones.”"
"“Unit coal and the composition of coal ash,” by S. W. Parr and W. F. Wheeler, is issued by the Engineering Experiment Station of the University of Illinois as Bulletin No. 37. By unit coal is meant the organic material which is involved in combustion, as apart from the mineral constituents which, in their natural state, enter into the composition of all coals. From the experiments described in the bulletin, it appears that when similar cases are compared, the variations in composition are chiefly in the extraneous matter; that for a given district, and more especially for a given mine, the value of the unit coal is practically constant. The heating value of the actual coal may vary considerably, but when the portion of the whole which is not coal is eliminated, the resulting material is of constant value."
"Mr. A. J. A. Kean has been appointed chief operating engineer to the Guanajuato Power and Electric Company, Guanajuato, Mexico."
"Mr. James J. Mahony, who for many years was connected with the General Electric Company, in the New York office, died on Saturday afternoon, March 19, 1910. Mr. Mahony was born in Worcester, Mass., on June 16, 1863. For some years he was in the employ of the Thomson-Houston Electric Company. Later he entered the engineering department of the General Electric Company. From 1888 to 1898 he was chiefly engaged in superintending the installation of electrical equipment in railway stations. All of the West End Street Railway Company's stations, the Metropolitan Elevated Railway stations in Chicago, and all of those of the Brooklyn Heights Railway Company were equipped and completed under Mr. Mahony's supervision. He became an Associate of the Institute on May 17, 1898, and was transferred to the grade of Member on July 25, 1902."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The subject of motor application to machine tools is rather a difficult one to treat satisfactorily in an abstract way. However, in this paper I shall try to point out the fundamental principles underlying motor applications to machine tools and trust these these will aid, not only in the election of the proper motor; and control, but in their application to machine tools as well. Observing these principles will have a marked effect upon production and will reduce maintenance to a minimum."
"The following paper is to be read at the meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in San Francisco, May 5–7, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting;.or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"Neutral Currents The difficulty of operating three-phase star-connected generators with their neutrals in parallel, was most forcibly brought to the attention of the engineering world when the company with which I am connected attempted to operate its plants in this manner. The various phenomena of this attempt have been fully described by C. W. Ricker (Experience with a Grounded Neutral on a High-tension Plant, Electric Journal, September, 1906) and by the writer (Experience with a Grounded Neutral on the High Tension System of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company, Transactions A.I.E.E., Vol. XXVI, Part II, page 1605)."
"The following paper is to be read at the meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in San Francisco, May 5–7, 1910. This piper is to be presented under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"Introduction Ever since Professor Ryan presented his famous paper on “Transformers” before the Institute, in which attention was called to the lack of symmetry between curves of instantaneous values of current and potential applied to the transformer, numerous writers have discussed the subject from various view points."
"The following paper is to be read at the 27th annual convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers at Jefferson, N. H., June 27–30, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the High Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"Experience with high voltage transmissions and distributions shows that high frequency oscillations and other disturbances of limited power do not exert as high a disruptive effect, at least on oil and solid insulation, as should be expected from their voltage. Discharges have been observed between the terminals of high-potential oil transformers through the air, which require voltages far beyond those which the transformer insulation could stand, and the absence of a break-down of the transformer could not always be explained by the screening effect of the reactance of the transformer leads."
"In the copper mining district of northern Michigan a fair-sized mine usually operates two or more shafts along the strike of the lode, these shafts being usually at least a thousand feet apart. The tonnage to be hoisted from each shaft is large, — from 13,000 to 25,000 tons per month. The hoisting engines used are generally steam-driven, non-condensing, duplex engines with Corliss valves, supplied by steam from separate boiler plants where the distance between shafts is great."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"June 27–30, 1910. The twenty-seventh Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held at The Waumbek, Jefferson (White Mountains) N. H., June 27, 28, 29 and 30, 1910."
"The Pacific Coast Convention, organized by the High-Tension Transmission Committee, was the first regular Institute meeting held west of the Rocky Mountains, and marks another advance step in carrying out a policy which will emphasize the national character of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. The registered attendance was 150 of which 19 were from distant points, there being seven from the Atlantic States. The local attendance was 131, mostly Members and Associates but including many engineers of other branches."
"The 27th Annual Meeting of the Institute was held in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West 39th Street, on Tuesday, May 17, 1910. Mr. Calvert Townley, in the absence of President Stillwell, called the meeting to order at 8:15 o'clock promptly, and announced that the President had requested him to preside at the meeting, by reason of his absence on the Pacific coast in connection with the recent Institute meeting in San Francisco. After the appointment of a proxy committee, consisting of Messrs. H. W. Buck H. H. Barnes, Jr., and W. G. Carlton, the Chairman called for the presentation of the Directors Annual Report; which was read in abstract by the Secretary. [Report in full at end of Section II.]"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Institute Board of Directors was held at 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Tuesday May 17, 1910. The Directors present were: Past-President Henry G. Stott, New York; Vice-presidents, Cummings C. Chesney, Pittsfield, Mass.; Calvert Townley, New Haven, Conn.; Paul M. Lincoln, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Paul Spencer, Philadelphia, Pa.; Managers, David B. Rushmore, Schenectady, N. Y.; W. G. Carlton, New York; Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y.; A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis.; William S. Murray, New-Haven, Conn.; Percy H. Thomas New York, Severn D. Sprong, New York; Treasurer, George A. Hamilton; Elizabeth, N. J.; Secretary, Ralph W. Pope."
"Anderson, Samuel Horace, Electrical Engineer, Pacific Electrical Railway Co.; res., 935 Dunn Avenue, Los Angeles, Cal."
"Boston At a meeting of the Section on April 9, 1910, in the auditorium of the Edison Building, Mr. Harold S. Osborn presented a paper on “Potential Stress' in Dielectrics.” Professor D. C. Jackson presided; there were present 27 members and visitors."
"University of Arkansas The members of the University of Arkansas Branch met in the engineering hall of the university on the evening of April 19, 1910. Mr. C. M. Moreland gave an account of a trip that he made to Joplin and Pittsburgh for the purpose of obtaining data for thesis work. Mr. R. E. Thompson described the water power survey trip recently made by the senior electrical engineering students. The main feature of the evening was a paper by Mr. W. B. Stelzner, in which he told of his experience while with the General Electric Company. Mr. Stelzner gave a general description of the Schenectady works and showed many views of the machinery, tests and shops."
"Copenhagen Sept. 7–11, 1909 To the President and Board of Directors of the A.I.E.E.: Sometime last summer the writer had the honor of being appointed by President Ferguson, a delegate of the Institute to the International Congress for Testing Materials, to be held in Copenhagen September 7–11, 1909."
"A project for the opening of a new avenue midway between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, New York City, and paralleling those thoroughfares from 14th to 59th Streets is being discussed. The proposed avenue would pass directly through the Engineers' Building. Although the plan is tentatively approved by Mayor Gaynor, it will not be seriously considered until thoroughly investigated. Chief engineer Nelson P. Lewis has already suggested a route which will avoid the demolition of most of the important buildings, including the property of United Engineering Society, in which the Institute holds an equity of approximately $530,000."
"Mr. Julius Hermann has accepted a position with the Potosina Electric Company at San Luis Potosi, Mexico."
"Townsend Wolcott, a former member of the Board of Directors, and for about ten years a member of the Board of Examiners of the Institute died of pneumonia in Brooklyn, N. Y., April 29, 1910. Mr. Wolcott was elected an Associate of the Institute March 6, 1888 and was transferred to the grade of member December 16, 1890. He was elected a Manager for the term 1902–5 and a Vice-president 1905–7. He had been an active factor in Institute affairs throughout his association with it, and his judicial temperament, and strict integrity were thoroughly appreciated by his colleagues. Mr. Wolcott was born in New York City, July 18, 1857, and although his education was confined to the common schools of that era, he was throughout his life an earnest student, and was conspicuous for his thorough familiarity with public affairs, as well as his practical grounding in mechanical and electrical engineering. He had made a specialty of the study of physics and mathematics, which was of great service to him in his professional career. He was associated with several of the pioneer electrical companies from 1879 to 1888 having been a laboratory assistant of Edward Weston with the United States Electric Lighting Company; electrician with the Julien Electric Traction Company, having charge of storage batteries and motors in street car work; the Mutual Electric Company as designer of electrical apparatus; and the new American Electric Arc Light Company, constructing ammeters and voltmeters. That he profited in his training by this varied experience was shown in his papers, articles, and discussions. As early as 1886 he presented papers before the New York Electrical Society “On the Theory of Magneto Electric Induction as applied to the Gramme Ring” and on “What is Electricity,” the latter having been printed in the Electrical World and the Electrician (London). Through his efforts the first self-exciting dynamo built in the United States, by Professor Charles A. Seeley was presented to the Institute in 1893 accompanied by a descriptive paper by Mr. Wolcott entitled “An Early Dynamo” proving that it was constructed in 1867, in New York City. Mr. Wolcott was a most conscientious man in whatever he undertook. He could be relied upon as doing his duty, and as an officer, or a member of a committee faithfully gave his best thought and closest attention to his Institute work. At the time of his illness and subsequent death he was in the employ of the government as electrical engineer of the United States Signal Corps in New York City. The nature of this work was such that he could not draw upon it for that class of papers in which the electrical engineers of the day are especially interested. At the New York meeting, May 28, 1902 he presented a paper on “Submarine Cable Testing in the Signal Corps, U. S. A.” which was a notable contribution in that comparatively limited but important field of American electrical practice. In discussion and criticism his thoughts were based on logical grounds, and whatever differences of opinion may have existed, none could doubt his sincerity. Those who recall the early struggles in the gradual upbuilding of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers can the more thoroughly grasp the calls of necessity, which brought out the best qualities of so loyal a supporter. It was through this unselfish and enthusiastic assistance that Mr. Wolcott gained the friendship of his co-workers, and to those who formed his acquaintance during this period, the news of his untimely death was especially depressing. To have gained the esteem of all with whom he was associated was in itself a fitting tribute to a life of well-doing."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The first commerical metal-filament lamp was the osmium lamp, the filaments of which were made of osmium. They had a good commercial life at 1.5 watts per c-p., and were used in considerable quantity in Vienna and Berlin where they were made. They were not shipped to distant points, as the filaments were very fragile, and the metal osmium was so valuable that it was desirable to recover all the lamps after they had burned out."
"The modern, so-called lighting station is in reality not exclusively a lighting system but a composite system, and is rapidly changing in character."
"Porcelain possesses some qualities which make it a very good material for line insulators and especially strain insulators. It can be moulded and worked into almost any desired form or size; when made of proper materials and properly burned it has practically no depreciation when exposed to the weather, acid fumes or gases, which sometimes create so much havoc on electric lines. It is hard and dense and has high dielectric strength. It is practically non-absorbent and so is not affected by frost."
"During the past twenty years overhead trolley construction for electric railways has become such a familiar type of engineering construction, and apparently so settled in practically all its detail, that it is apt to be regarded as commonplace compared with many other features of electric railway equipment engineering. As long as the electric energy for train propulsion was everywhere standardized at 500 to 600 volts direct current, trolley construction practice followed a comparatively well settled and practically uniform line of standards; but since 1904 wide departures have been made from the original forms of railway motors, both as to current and voltage. This advance, made entirely in the interest of economy in transmission, has been accompanied by radical changes in trolley construction which have required the closest engineering attention and have lifted it above the level of the commonplace into which it had generally come to be relegated."
"It is necessary to protect: 1. The railroad communication circuits (telegraph, telephone and signal) from mechanical injury and from contact with high tension wires."
"Under this head it is intended to touch briefly upon a few of the important considerations which may be of general interest relating to the production of electricity. The generating system here spoken of includes everything from the coal at the mine to the outgoing wires from the substations."
"The following paper is to be read at the 27th Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical-Engineers in Jefferson, N. H., June 27–30, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the Industrial Power Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"Recent innovations in the method of driving roll trains by the induction motor as accompanied by a rotor of considerable inertia effect has compelled the study of a dynamical problem of some complexity. The problem is essentially a commercial one in requiring that the mechanism involved shall exhibit the greatest return on the investment. This unavoidably imposes the consideration of the prime mover as well as the motor and equipment immediately attached to the roll train. While a complete statement of the solution of this commercial problem cannot be evolved at this time, it is the purpose of the following analysis to exhibit the manner of disposition of certain important elements."
"The following paper is to be read at the 27th annual convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Jefferson, N. H., June 27–30, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the Telegraphy and Telephony Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"The telephone requirements of a large city differ in certain essential points from those of a city of small or moderate size. The chief of these are as follows:"
"When work was first started on the problem of producing a ductile form of tungsten, the metal looked very uncompromising. It was so hard that it could not be filed without detriment to the file, and was, at ordinary temperatures, very brittle."
"The following paper is to be read at the 27th Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Jefferson, N. H., June 27–30, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the Electric Lighting Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"The oil switch has become a fundamental part of all large generating systems, and so well has it fulfilled its function that not only has it superseded practically all other forms of switches for such service at all voltages, but manufacturers unhesitatingly claim that it can be constructed so as to safely open short circuits under the worst possible conditions in systems of unlimited kilowatt capacities, the only limiting condition, of course, being that the consumer be willing to pay for it."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith for the information of the membership its annual report for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1910. The report shows the financial status of the Institute, and includes brief statements regarding the work accomplished by the various standing and special committees."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The two-hundred and forty-second meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York, on Friday evening, January 14, 1910, at 8 o'clock. This meeting is to be held under the auspices of the Railway Committee. Professor W. S. Franklin and Mr. Stanley S. Seyfert of Lehigh University will present a paper entitled “On the Space Economy of the Single-phase Series Motor.” All members wishing to discuss this paper, either orally or by letter, should notify William McClellan, Chairman Railway Committee, 90 West Street, New York, not later than January 12, 1910."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Thursday, December 16, 1909. The directors present were: President Lewis B. Stillwell, New York; Past-President Henry G. Stott, New York; Vice-Presidents C. C. Chesney, Pittsfield, Mass., Bancroft Gherardi, New York, Calvert Townley, New Haven, Conn., Paul M. Lincoln, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Managers H. W. Buck, New York, Percy H. Thomas, New York, David B. Rushmore, Schenectady, N. Y., Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y., H. E. Clifford, Cambridge, Mass., A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., Severn D. Sprong, New York; Secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"Applications have been received by the secretary from the following candidates for election to the Institute as Associates; these applications will be considered by the Board of Directors at a future meeting. Any Member or Associate objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the secretary before January 25, 1910."
"The following Associates were recommended for transfer by the Board of Examiners at a meeting held on December 10, 1909. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary."
"For the purpose of giving information to the membership in connection with future nominations for officers of the Institute, after the distribution of the nomination forms, in February, the following by-law was adopted by the Board of Directors November 13, 1908:"
"The requirements for the degrees of doctor of engineering and doctor of philosophy at this institution have now been made substantially equivalent, as far as the period of study and the candidates' attainments are concerned. The Executive Committee has voted to maintain two Austin research fellowships carrying a grant of $500 each and the remission of tuition fees; these are now to be open equally to candidates for the two degrees mentioned above. Fifteen other graduate scholarships and fellowships are also maintained."
"The semi-monthly meeting of the University of Arkansas Branch was held on November 18, 1909. Mr. H. Herbert read the Institute paper on “The Electric System of the Great Northern Railway Company at Cascade Tunnel.” The paper was discussed by Chairman Stelzner, who is familiar with the equipment on this system. Professor A. A. Steel then presented a paper on “Electric Wiring in Mines”, speaking from many years of personal experience in mining engineering. The last paper read was contributed by Mr. G. C. Baker, a former student, who is now first-class electrician on the U. S. S. Virginia. It described the many applications of electricity in the U. S. Navy, including wireless telephony and telegraphy, lighting, signaling, and the handling of big guns by electricity. There was an attendance of 33 members."
"Mr. F. G. Wiechmann has removed his offices from No. 1 Madison Avenue to Room 908, 24 State Street, New York."
"Dr. Charles B. Dudley, chief chemist for the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, died at his home in Altoona, Pa., on Tuesday evening, December 21, 1909, of typhoid pneumonia, after an illness of three days. Dr. Dudley was born at Oxford, Chenango County, N. Y., on July 14, 1842. He was graduated from Yale University in 1871, and from the Sheffield Scientific School in 1874. Subsequently he became assistant to the professor of physics at the University of Pennsylenia. In November 1875, he became associated with the Pennsylvania Railroad Company as chemist and scientific expert, retaining this position to the time of his death. In his capacity as chemist for the Pennsylvania Railroad Company he performed work of much importance in testing railway materials, establishing a standard which has been adopted by nearly all of the railroads in this country. Dr. Dudley was president of the American Chemical Society, the Iron and Steel Institute, the International Association for Testing Materials, and the American Society for. Testing Materials. His presidential address before the latter society, on “Engineering Responsibility”, delivered on June 29, 1909, was reprinted in the December issue of the Institute Proceedings. He became an Associate of the Institute on October 1, 1889, and was transferred to the grade of Member on November 12, 1889."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The following paper is to be read at the regular meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in New York City, January 14, 1910. This meeting is to be held under the auspices of the Railway Committee of the Institute. All members of the Institute are invited to be present and participate in the discussion of the paper."
"It is not the object of this paper to argue for single-phase alternating-current electrification versus direct-current electrification, nor to argue for the locomotive versus the multiple-unit system of electric propulsion, nor to argue in favor of the axle motor as against the detached motor with side-bar or gear connections. The sole object of the paper is to discuss the question as to the maximum single-phase series motor rating that can be placed within a given space, and indeed the authors approach this question, not on an absolute basis, but on a basis of comparison. Given a well-designed single-phase alternating-current series motor of the usual construction, as represented, for example, by the motors of the present locomotives of the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad (and every one who has seen these motors in operation must admit that they represent a splendid achievement on the part of their designer) the question is how great an increase of rating can be realized by certain alterations in the design and by the use of certain new auxiliary devices. As will appear in the sequel, this question admits of a qualitative answer in every particular and of a quantitative answer in several important particulars."
"The following paper is based upon experiments conducted at Stanford University during the past two years upon the regulation of transformers under varying conditions. The first test was made upon a single phase, 200 watt, 11,000–110 volt meter-transformer. Owing to the importance of voltage and phase regulation in such a transformer, particularly when applied to the measurement of a large amount of power, a knowledge of its behavior in this regard is extremely desirable."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A public engineering meeting will be held in the Engineers' Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Monday evening, October 17, 1910, at 8:00 p.m. Engineers who are members of other societies are invited to attend and participate in the discussion. The subject to be discussed is the “Rapid Transit Requirements of Greater New York” and will be presented in an informal paper by Mr. Frank J. Sprague, past-president, and chairman of the railway committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. A brief statement will be given of the general facts pertaining to routes, and construction and equipment of the existing and proposed subways, illustrated by lantern slides. As the meeting is to be an informal one, intended to afford opportunity for the expression of engineering views upon a subject of great importance, the proceedings will not necessarily form any part of the published records of the Institute, but the discussions, with the assent of the speakers, may be published in a separate pamphlet."
"The second national conservation congress was held at Saint Paul Minn., September 5, 6, 7 and 8. The American Institute of Electrical Engineers was represented by a complete delegation of five, consisting of W. B. Jackson, Chicago, chairman, Morgan Brooks of Urbana, Ill., E. P. Burch and A. W. Leonard of Minneapolis, and Ralph W. Pope of New York. At a conference of the delegates it appeared that any possible technical features of the congress would be overshadowed by the political questions, which were introduced by the advocates of state versus federal control of streams and forests. This state of affairs led to an improvised conference of all technical delegates who could be reached, called by Isham Randolph of Chicago. The conference was organized on September 7, with Mr. Randolph as chairman and Mr. Pope as secretary. Twenty-eight civil, mechanical, electrical, mining and chemical engineers, surveyors and architects responded to the call. Sub-committees were appointed to prepare resolutions bearing upon the five subjects recommended by the congress for consideration by the resolutions committee of the congress. The resolutions of the technical delegates on water, minerals, forests, lands and vital resources were accordingly transmitted to the general committee on resolutions for the information of that body, through the courtesy of Cyrus C. Babb, of Augusta, Maine, a Member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, who was a state delegate and a member of the resolutions committee of the congress. At the closing session, September 8, John Wallace, of Des Moines, Iowa, was elected president. The time and place of the next congress, will be fixed by the executive committee."
"The Mexico Section held a meeting at the American Club, City of Mexico, on August 2, 1910. The subject of the meeting was a paper by Professor Francisco Uriquidi, of the National School of Mines, entitled “Engineering Education.” Professor Uriquidi described in detail the course designed by him for the electrical engineering students in the Mexican National School of Engineers. The proposed course is based upon Professor Karapetoff's concentric method, great stress being laid upon the practical work done by the students, both in the shops of the schools, and in the various electrical industries in the vicinity. In every case the theoretical investigation of a subject is undertaken after the student has become thoroughly familiar with the manner in which the principles involved are put into use in modern commercial practice."
"Mr. L. Clyde Chatfield has resigned from the construction department of the Edison Electric Illuminating Company, Brooklyn, N. Y., and will return to England."
"George Nial Eastman died at Riverside, Cal., on June 14, 1910. Mr. Eastman was born in Arkona, Ontario, Canada, on December 10, 1874. At an early age he moved to Michigan, where he attended school at Fort Gratiot and Imlay City. He graduated from high school at the latter place in 1891. A year later he became a student in the mechanical engineering department of the Michigan Agricultural College, graduating in 1897 with the degree of Bachelor of Science. Early in 1898 he entered the employ of the Chicago Edison Company, in the construction department, and in September 1899 was given charge of the testing laboratory. About five years ago Mr. Eastman's health failed, and after an extended tour through Europe, he went to California, where he has since resided. He became an Associate of the Institute on November 22, 1901. Mr. Eastman was the author of a number of valuable papers on various technical subjects."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"High Voltage Insulation The property of a dielectric in which one is particularly interested in the design of high voltage insulation is its ability to resist the stresses exerted upon it by the voltage, tending to disrupt it, and to force a large current through the puncture."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A meeting will be held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, New York City, December 8, 1910, by the National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education, with the coöperation of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the American Institute of Mining Engineers. The subject of the evening will be “Industrial Continuation Schools of Munich,” by Dr. Georg Kerschensteiner, Superintendent of Schools, Munich, Bavaria. Dr. Kerschensteiner has been for many years at the head of the progressive movement in Germany for more practical industrial education, and is responsible for the development of the part-time schools in Munich that are attended by all apprentices and other boys and girls at work between 14 and 18 years of age. The keynote of Dr. Kerschensteiner's theory of industrial education is coöperation between the employer and the public school system. This is the basis upon which is founded the successful system of schools for every important industry in Munich. The address will be illustrated by lantern views of the Munich schools and classes."
"The subject of light is worthy of exhaustive study. The goal of illuminating engineers is light without heat, or light by luminescence. The common candle was in its time a very useful invention. As the development of light proceeded, various forms of lighting appeared. The advent of the Geissler tube, which in its simplest form is a sealed glass tube with air exhausted to a low point, opened a new field to the electrical engineer. This was followed by the Crookes tube, similar in principle to the Geissler tube, but having a higher degree of vacuum. This led to the discovery of the X-ray. It was in 1891 that the writer, noting a statement that 99.7 per cent of the energy of coal used in producing light is lost, thus only three-tenths per cent of one per cent being utilized, resolved to bend his energies in the direction of developing a more efficient light. The result of his efforts has been the development of a new form of light which has been brought to a high state of perfection. Those who have visited the large stores and public buildings of any of our larger cities have seen the Moore vacuum tube light in actual operation. As usually installed it consists of a long glass tube strung on the ceiling, and giving off a brilliant but soft light. There are two standard qualities of the Moore light; yellow and white. The yellow used for general illumination, employs nitrogen vapor in the tubes. The white, which produces a light exactly similar to the light of day, employs carbon dioxide as a vapor. The white light is the only light by which color values properly can be judged. Its greatest use is in lighting such places as department stores, dye factories, silk mills, etc., where colors are handled. The efficiency of the yellow Moore light is higher than that of any other form of light; that is, it uses less energy for the same effective illumination than any other form of light. Probably the most ingenious feature of the Moore light is the valve which automatically supplies the proper amount of vapor to the tube in order to keep the vacuum within the proper range. A plunger, operated by the change in current value, displaces a varying amount of mercury in a tube leading into the Moore tube proper. The mercury normally covers a carbon plug, thus sealing the tube, but with an increase in current the plunger rises, displacing less mercury and uncovering the carbon plug, through which the mercury percolates, thus lowering the vacuum again to the proper point."
"For the insulation of electrical devices designed for operation at temperatures under 100 degrees centigrade, there is no more important class of materials than the complex mixtures of hydrogen and carbon known as the bitumens. They might be classified as follows:"
"Transformer installations may be classed under the following heads: (a) Choice of transformers with regard to size and construction; (b) Location of transformers with regard to accessibility and fire hazard; (c) Methods of Cooling; (d) Testing of oil and treating of deteriorated oil; (e) Choice of connections for high pressure windings, whether star or delta. In making a choice of transformers for plants up to 5,000 or 6,000 kw. capacity having only one transmission line, two banks of transformers connected in parallel, each bank comprising three single-phase units, and one extra single-phase unit for use in cases of emergency, are preferable. For larger stations, and especially those supplying several independent transmission lines, preference should be given to the three-phase type of transformer on account of its space economy."
"Resume of the Work of the Unofficial Conference, Held at Brussels, August 8, 9 and 10, 1910."
"Mr. James J. Fox, electrical engineer, formerly of Newark, N. J., is now with the Commonwealth Edison Company of Chicago, Ill."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment:"
"Of late years an increasing amount of consideration is being given to the economic production of power, and as the cost of coal in a steam power station is the largest item of expense, it naturally follows that the efficiency of the apparatus for generating power should be high. In order to determine these efficiencies, certain accurate measurements, or tests, are necessary, and it is the intention to outline what precautions must be taken, in order that the results may not be misleading, and also to consider the relative degrees of accuracy of different methods."
"1. General Mechanical forces appear wherever magnetic fields act on electric currents. The work done by all electric motors is the result of these forces. In electric generators, they oppose the driving power and thereby consume the power which finds its equivalent in the electric power output. The motions produced by the electromagnet are due to these forces. Between the primary and the secondary coils of the transformer, between conductor and return conductor of an electric circuit, etc., such mechanical forces appear."
"The slightest puncture of a transformer means that it must be dismounted entirely before repairs can be made. The oil must be drawn out, the leads disconnected, and the structure moved to a location where there are facilities for hoisting. Moreover, there is interruption of service with consequent loss of revenue and impairment of prestige. At its best, transformer repairing in a station does not inspire a feeling of enthusiasm for the electrical arts. And yet the damaged coils with their slime are the starting point of progress along manufacturing lines, as well as of progress along those lines that lead to the consideration of electric stress, line oscillations, temperature gradient, and other similarly advanced features of the science."
"The values in use for the conductivity, resistivity, and temperature coefficient of copper vary considerably. The standard values for annealed copper as used by various institutions in different countries are given in the following table."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Circumstances have made it expedient to change the date of the proposed meeting at San Francisco, from April 21–23 to May 5, 6 and 7, 1910. The meeting will be under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee, and will be held in the auditorium of the Home Telephone Company's building, 333 Grant Avenue, San Francisco, Cal. There will be four professional sessions on the first two days, and a tour of inspection on the third day and several days of the succeeding week. The sessions will be held at 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. on May 5 and May 6, 1910. The following papers will be presented by their respective authors:"
"The 246th meeting of the Institute will be held at Charlotte, N. C., on March 30, 31 and April 1, 1910. The official headquarters will be at the Selwyn Hotel, which is on the European plan. Other hotels in Charlotte are: Buford Hotel, American and European plan; Stonewall Hotel, European plan; Central Hotel, American plan."
"On January 14, 1910, the Board of Directors after careful consideration, adopted resolutions which have a most important bearing upon the future activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. These resolutions were published in Section I of the Proceedings for February, but it is thought advisable in view of the fundamental and far reaching importance of the step which has been taken to call attention to them, and request the Institute membership to read them carefully and coöperate effectively to the end that the utmost possibilities of the Institute, conducted along broad lines as an organization in every sense continental and not local, may be realized. The principal objects which the Directors have had in view in developing the plan which is made effective by the resolutions referred to, are the following:"
"The Annual Dinner of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE) was held at the Hotel Astor, New York City, Friday, February 24, 1910, 278 guests being present. Professor Elihu Thomson was the guest of honor, and the dinner marked the celebration of the first award of the Edison Medal for meritorious achievement. Previous to the presentation of the medal to Professor Thomson an elaborate dinner was served in the large banquet room of the hotel, the electrical decorations of which were supplied by the New York Edison Company and the Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Brooklyn. After the service of the dinner President Stillwell made a short address of welcome and introduced the Toast-master of the evening, Past-president T.C. Martin. Mr. Martin opened the exercises by reading several telegrams of congratulation from friends of Professor Thomson, including Mr. Thomas A. Edison, Mr. B.E. Sunny, Mr. H.M. Byllesby and others."
"A meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers with the coöperation of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in New York on March 8, 1910, at which Past-president Henry G. Stott, of the A.I.E.E., read a paper on “Tests of a 15,000-kw. Steam-Engine-Turbine Unit.” A limited number of copies of this paper are available for distribution, and will be sent to members upon request until the supply is exhausted. Members desiring copies should address the secretary, Ralph W. Pope, 33 West 39th Street, New York City."
"Our readers will recall the paper presented by Dr. Cary T. Hutchinson at the Institute meeting in New York on November 12, 1909, which appeared in the November Proceedings, on the electric system of the Great Northern Railway at Cascade Tunnel. It may not be generally known that the avalanche which occurred at Wellington, at the western end of the tunnel, on March 1, caused considerable damage to the equipment of the system. All four of the electric locomotives, with two trains, three steam locomotives, and a rotary snow-plow, were swept away by the slide. Some idea of its force may be gained from the fact that the weight of each of the electric locomotives is 230,000 lb. A portion of the overhead catenary construction was also swept away. The extent of the damage to the electric locomotives has not yet been determined. If much of the apparatus has to be rewound, it may be six months before the electric service can be resumed, as the locomotives will probably have to be sent to Seattle or some other city for repair."
"In conformity with the Constitution, President Stillwell appointed in February a Committee of Tellers to count the nomination ballots cast for the offices to be filled at the close of the present administration year. The committee was' constituted as follows: Messrs. G. A. Baker, chairman, A. A. Frank, William Nesbit, C. K. Nichols, and S. N. Castle. Having completed this work, the committee submitted its report to the Institute Board of Directors at the meeting of the Board held on March 11, 1910. This report, which is a summary of the nomination ballots cast, is printed herewith:"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Institute Board of Directors was held at 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Friday, March 11, 1910. The directors present were: President Lewis B. Stillwell, New York; Past-president Henry G. Stott, New York; Vice-presidents C. C. Chesney, Pittsfield, Mass., Bancroft Gherardi, New York, Calvert Townley, New Haven, Conn., P. M. Lincoln, Pittsburgh, Pa., Paul Spencer, Philadelphia, Pa.; Managers H. W. Buck, New York, Percy H. Thomas, New York, David B. Rushmore Schenectady, N. Y., W. G. Carlton, New York, H. E. Clifford, Cambridge, Mass., A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., W. S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., H. H. Norris, Ithaca, N. Y.; Secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"Affolter, Paul Henry, Inspector, Laramie Electric Company, Laramie, Wyoming."
"Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas Branch The second meeting of this Branch was held in Gathright Hall on February 25, 1910, with an attendance of 38 members and visitors. Mr. R. T. Shiels read the paper on “Protection of Electrical Equipment”, presented by Mr. P. M. Lincoln before the Seattle Section on the occasion of his visit there last September during the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition."
"The municipal water and light plant at Columbia, Mo., was the topic of discussion at a meeting of the University of Missouri Branch on January 10, 1910. The following phases of the subject were presented and discussed: “Financial History,” by Professor L. M. Defoe; “Water Supply,” by Professor T. J. Rodhouse; “Load Factor,” by Mr. K. A. McVey."
"Mr. H. T. Eddy recently opened a large garage at 2108 May Street, Walnut Hills, Cincinnati, Ohio."
"Mr. Dirk Kos died in Amsterdam, Holland, on December 23, 1909, after a short illness. Mr. Kos was born in Ursem, Holland, on April 15, 1880. In 1898 he entered the Polytechnical Institute of Delft, graduating as a mechanical engineer in 1902, after which he took a post-graduate course in electrical engineering in the Polytechnical Institute of Karlsruhe. Subsequently he came to the United States, remaining for a number of years, during which period he held positions with various companies. Early in 1908 he returned to Europe to accept a position as electrical engineer with the Allgemeine Elektricitats Gesellschaft, of Berlin. Mr. Kos was admitted to membership in the Institute as an Associate on June 21, 1907."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The following paper is to be read at the meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Charlotte, N.C., March 30–April 1, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"There seems to be a prevalent opinion that engineers in general, and electrical engineers in particular, do not occupy as important positions among the leaders in this country as engineering enterprises occupy in affairs in general. An attempt is made in this paper to determine how far this opinion is warranted, to give the characteristics of electrical engineering leaders, to consider the educational advantages which they have enjoyed, to formulate those essential characteristics of leaders which can be imparted to the individual by educational processes, and to discuss some of the problems met by educators in carrying on these processes."
"Of primary importance in mine installations is the hoist, which has a very direct bearing on the successful operation of a mine. Conditions vary greatly with different mines, and especially in different localities. Such factors as depth, incline, the number of levels, permissible or desirable speeds, conditions of ore, etc., are always more or less special in each case. Veins of ore are never exactly duplicated, and the nature of the ground through which shafts are sunk may considerably modify permissible values. As mining laws are made by the different states they necessarily vary somewhat, and, even when not fully observed, they introduce factors which qualify the conditions of hoisting men and ore. The amount of timbering required is often of importance as relating to hoisting conditions. Methods of loading ore affect the time required, as also does the question of the use of cars or skips. Safety precautions must be very carefully considered, and the number of men in each mine, the number of compartments, and often the method of removing water from the mine must have careful consideration."
"The following paper is to be read at the 246th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Charlotte, N. C, March 30–April 1, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the Industrial Power Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"It is the purpose of this paper to deal especially with the employment of electric power, derived from hydroelectric systems of distribution, for the operation of textile mills. It is impossible in a paper of this kind to go very fully into detail, and no attempt will be made to discuss the forms of drives, kind of motors or, in fact, any other technical details, since any one of the more important ones would require a special paper to do it justice."
"The following paper is to be read at the 246th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Charlotte, N. C, March 30–April 1, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the Industrial Power Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"It is not the object of this paper to present the subject of internal combustion engines from a scientific point of view, or to report on results obtained from tests made under the most favorable conditions with apparatus and facilities only to be found in an experimental laboratory, but to consider the subject under the following heads:"
"The following paper is to be read at the 246th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Charlotte, N. C, March 30–April 1, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the High Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"It is the purpose of this paper to sum up in a general way some of the advantages to be gained by operating a sytem of hydroelectric plants connected in parallel so as to exchange power from one plant or territory to another. The disadvantages of this system, which are almost all transmission operating conditions, have been purposely omitted, in the hope that some member may at a future meeting treat this phase of the subject, giving a solution of the problems involved. The deductions, although drawn from conditions existing on the southern Appalachian slopes, will in most cases apply to other localities."
"The following paper is to be read at the meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in San Francisco, May 5–7, 1910. This paper is lo be presented under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"No matter what care and skill are exercised in designing and constructing a hydroelectric plant, with accompanying high-tension transmission lines, absolute continuity of service is a thing which cannot be assured. This is more particularly true of our western plants as compared with those of the eastern section of the country, and is especially true in California. Practically all of our important hydroelectric plants are located on streams which find their way down the western slope of the Sierra Nevada range of mountains through deep canyons. The sides of the canyons are usually very steep, and furnish very poor foothold for ditch construction. The cost of driving tunnels is usually prohibitive, and in the majority of cases, box flumes, built of lumber, are used to carry the water."
"The following paper is to be read at the meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in San Francisco, May 5–7, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"The greatest incentive to the development and construction of hydroelectric transmission systems has been high fuel costs. This is particularly true in California, where, until the discovery of oil a few years ago, practically every industry using steam as a motive power had to depend on coal imported from Australia or British Columbia."
"The following paper is to be read at the meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in San Francisco, May 5–7, 1910. This paper is to be presented under the auspices of the High-Tension Transmission Committee of the Institute. All those connected with the Institute and desiring to take part in the discussion of this paper may do so by being present at the meeting; or, if this is not possible, by sending in a written contribution."
"Introduction Among the many uses to which hydroelectric power is being applied, that of electrically pumped water for irrigation is being advocated at present in a great many instances; and while the mere pumping of the water is so simple as to be hardly worthy of discussion, it may be of interest to point out some of the operating conditions encountered in a project formed chiefly for this purpose."
"It may seem strange that the subject of lightning protection for transmission lines is receiving so much attention on the part of electrical engineers, since lightning protective devices have nothing whatever to do with the ordinary operating characteristics of a transmission system. However, the reliability of a line is often dependent upon its adequate protection from lightning-discharges and in some sections of the country satisfactory service would be out of the question without such protection."
"The various 1200-volt interurban railways have now been operating a sufficient length of time to prove that there are no material objections to the use of this voltage on passenger cars. The nature of such minor difficulties as have been experienced have been such that their correction has required only detail changes of design which have been readily made. The important items of reliability and low cost of upkeep have met all expectations."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The national character of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was again emphasized by the twenty-seventh annual convention at Jefferson, N. H., the registered attendance from various parts of the continent being 178. This has been exceeded several times in the past, but the hotel was filled, the sessions well attended and the various entertainments were enlivened by enthusiastic participants. The weather was delightful, the accommodations excellent, and the mountain scenery at its best."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Institute Board of Directors was held at The Waumbek, Jefferson, N. H., on Wednesday morning, June 29, 1910. The directors present were: President Lewis B. Stillwell, New York; Vice-President, Paul Spencer, Philadelphia Pa.; Managers Percy H. Thomas, New York, David B. Rushmore, Schenectady N. Y., Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y., A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., S. D. Sprong, New York, and secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"(Full text of existing Standardization Rules, may be found in any one of the following publications'. Year Book for 1910, pp. 60; Part II of the Transactions for 1907, (Vol. XXVI), pp. 1797; Proceedings for July 1907, pp. 1077; or a separate pamphlet containing the Standardization Rules may be obtained from Institute headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York.)"
"The Atlanta Section held its regular monthly meeting in the Equitable Building, Atlanta, on June 14, 1910. After a discussion of various business matters relating to local affairs, Mr. E. P. Peck, in charge of the laboratory of the Georgia Railway and Electric Company, read a paper on The Test and Operation of a 2,000 kw. Frequency Changer Set. The paper was discussed by Messrs. H. P. Wood, A. M. Schoen, F. G. Sidell, and M. E. Bonyun."
"Mr. H. A. Lardner, manager of J. G. White and Company's San Francisco office, is convalescing from a prolonged siege of typhoid fever."
"FREDERICK H. LINCOLN, vice-president and general manager of the Pay-Within Car Company, Philadelphia, Pa., while attempting to board a moving train at the West Philadelphia station on July 11, fell beneath the wheels and was almost instantly killed. Mr. Lincoln was born in Boston, Mass., on May 28, 1867. After three years' apprenticeship at the machinist's trade, he began his electrical career with the Thomson Houston Company in 1886. In 1888 this company started the development of its street railway system and Mr. Lincoln was transferred to the railway department, and placed in responsible charge of electric railway installations in various cities throughout the country. In 1893 he entered the employ of the People's Traction Company of Philadelphia, serving as assistant engineer during the construction period, and later having charge of the company's power plants. When all the surface roads in Philadelphia were consolidated into the Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company, in 1895, Mr. Lincoln was made superintendent of lines and cables and had charge of the redesigning and rebuilding of the company's electrical distribution system. In August 1905 he was appointed assistant general manager of the company and was placed in charge of the operation of the Market Street elevated and subway division, as well as of the maintenance of equipment of the entire system. While the elevated and subway system was being planned Mr. Lincoln was one of the party of Philadelphia Rapid Transit officers sent on a tour of Europe t o study conditions in continental cities. He subsequently resigned his position to become vicepresident and general manager of the Pay-Within Car Company. He was one of the inventors of the pay-within car. He took an active interest in the work of the American Street and Interurban Railway Association, and at its convention in Denver last fall was made president of the organization. Mr. Lincoln was admitted to membership in the Institute as an Associate on May 16, 1905. He is survived by a widow."
"Electric Motors. By F. B. Crocker and Morton Arendt. New York, Van Nostrand Co., 1910. (Gift of Authors.) Price $2.50."
"The conference of governors, which assembled at the White House, in May, 1908, in response to an invitation extended by President Roosevelt, focused the attention of the American people upon a subject which all recognize as one of fundamental national importance and one which appeals to the engineering profession with all the force which comes from special knowledge. True conservation of our natural resources means wise utilization of those resources without unnecessary waste. Such utilization of materials used in construction and of energy is the primary and essential business of the engineer. Since the days of Smeaton and of Watt, the engineer has been building the lighthouses of material prosperity and releasing and directing for the common welfare, those vast forces of nature imprisoned and overlooked for centuries but now utilized on a scale which dwarfs the physical powers of man to insignificance."
"The Los Angeles aqueduct extends from the intake in Owens valley, about 12 miles north of the town of Independence, to the storage reservoirs at the head of the San Fernando valley, about 24 miles distant from the city of Los Angeles, from which point the city water department will take care of the distribution of the water. The length of the aqueduct proper is, therefore, 240 miles."
"In the distribution of electricity for lighting and power purposes over a large city, the maximum demand of the day upon the distributing system varies from day to day during the week, and from month to month during the year. The varying length of the day due to changing seasons, the habits of the population served, and the character of the district, whether residence, mercantile or manufacturing, combine to produce this situation."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The two hundred and fifty-third meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Friday evening, November 11, 1910. A paper entitled “Interpoles and Synchronous Converters” will be presented by Messrs. B. G. Lamme and F. D. Newbury, both of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, Pittsburg, Pa. The paper is printed in this issue of the Proceedings."
"The John Fritz Medal was established by the professional associates and friend of John Fritz, Honorary Member American Society of Civil Engineers, of Bethlehem, Pa., on August 21, 1902, his eightieth birthday, to perpetuate the memory of his achievements in industrial progress. The medal is awarded by a Board of sixteen, made up in equal numbers from the membership of the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. It is awarded for notable scientific or industrial achievement, and there is no restriction on account of nationality or sex."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Institute Board of Directors was held at 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Friday, October 14, 1910. The directors present were: President Dugald C. Jackson, Boston, Mass.; Past-president Lewis B. Stillwell, New York; vice-presidents Paul Spencer, Philadelphia, Pa., P. M. Lincoln, Pittsburg, Pa., Percy H. Thomas, New York; managers, W. G. Carlton, New York, A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., H. H. Barnes, Jr., New York, Severn D. Sprong, New York, David B. Rushmore, Schenectady, N. Y., Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N.Y.; Treasurer George W. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J.; Secretary, Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"Very large systems of a few years ago can now hardly be classed as of medium size. A 1,000-light generator, that is, of approximately 100 h.p. capacity, was a monster machine only a few years ago. Now we are designing 20,000 h.p. units. The size of generators gradually grew larger and larger, but as the cities took up this new power the growth was so rapid that many systems were obliged to tie in with others, making the regulation of the voltage on the lights very poor. Then the multiple voltage and the three-wire systems came into use. The three-wire system aided wonderfully in giving better regulation, but it was due to the modern alternating current systems that electric lighting became so successful. This was not without a bitter fight, however, between the direct and alternating current advocates, which lasted for many years. The alternating-current systems had a sad history, due largely to the fact that there were then no alternating-current motors, and therefore practically no load on the system during the day. This was costly. The frequencies used at that time were too high, being 125 and 133 cycles per second. It was realized, however, that there were vast possibilities in the alternating-current system. At this period, the rotary converter, which changes direct into alternating current, or vice versa, made its appearance. A combination of the alternating and direct-current systems was first tried out on a large scale by the New York Edison Company, and then by the Chicago system with a double current generator. The direct current was used near the station and distributed from three-wire mains, while the outlying districts were supplied with 3-phase, 25-cycle current at 6,600 and 13,200 volts. This alternating current was transformed at the generators to 6,600 or 13,200 volts and then re-transformed at suburbs to low voltages, and connected to rotary converters, giving three-wire direct current as near the station. As these stations developed in size the question naturally arose as to the limiting size of an economical station. Calculations were made showing that this limit was from 10,000 to 20,000 kw. These calculations were, however, based on one character of load. If a station has a very varied load, such as light, power, and railway, there is practically no limit to the economical size which can be built. Mr. Insull, of Chicago particularly brought out this argument and was willing to try it in the Fisk Street Station in Chicago, one of the largest in America. This station now has connected up 180,000 kw., equal to almost 250,000 h.p. On such large systems, problems arise which are very difficult of solution and which were not even heard of in the smaller stations where the voltages were low, capacities limited, and the net-work and bus bars were of comparatively high resistance. There are high-frequency disturbances on the lines all the time, and enormous capacities behind any break-down. In fact, with a modern turbine station not equipped with special reactance coils for limiting the current, if a short circuit should occur at the bus bars, and the normal rating of the station were 250,000 h.p., there might be concentrated for a moment at the point of short circuit over 12,000,000 h.p. Apparatus such as switches, circuit breakers, etc., can hardly be made to take care of such enormous powers and it has been found necessary to install reactance coils in each generator circuit and also in the bus bars between groups of generators. These reactances, in order not to saturate, or “lay down”, on such enormous currents are constructed with non-magnetic cores. They are also subject to enormous mechanical strains, up to hundreds of tons, when the short circuit current is thrown upon them, so that their design is very difficult. A comparison of these disturbances to waves of water facilitates an understanding of this subject by the non-technical man. With a small body of water, it takes a hurricane to raise a wave of appreciable size; while on the ocean, even on calm days, there are always wave disturbances. The electric waves caused by switching, etc., may be of limited power, but when they meet an obstruction, just as is true with water waves, they may rise to unlimited heights or voltages, depending on the nature of the obstruction. It is for this reason that the end turns of high voltage transformers are more heavily insulated than the other turns. Owing to the damage resulting from enormous short circuit currents, it is now becoming customary to specify regulation by giving a limit to the short circuit current in terms of full load current, usually 15 times normal. Other difficult problems have arisen with the advent of our very large systems, and much time and effort is being spent on them, both by manufacturers and customers."
"The Stevens Engineering Society, which is affiliated with the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and which comprises a society of students of Stevens Institute, announces a course of lectures which will be delivered at Stevens Institute during the coming season."
"An informal public engineering meeting was held in the Engineering Societies Building, October 17, to discuss the rapid transit situation in Greater New York. The paper of the evening was presented by Mr. Frank J. Sprague and was discussed by Messrs. W. J. Wilgus, L. B. Stillwell, W. S. Murray, R. E. Dowling and T. K. Thomson."
"Mr. R. F. Trennert has changed his address from Pinchot, Cal., to Healdsburg, Cal., Box 556."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"[Note: The following addenda have been contributed by the authors since the publication of the above paper in the Proceedings for May, 1910, and should be considered a part of that paper.]"
"Synchronous converters with interpoles have been used but little in this country, but they have been built to some extent in England and on the continent of Europe, principally by companies which are either directly connected with or very closely allied to the companies which have manufactured the great bulk of the converter apparatus installed in this country. Considering that interpole generators and motors came into extensive use in this country at about the same time as in Europe, the question would naturally be raised why interpole converters have not come into similarly extensive use, especially as the principal designers of converters in this country are in direct touch with the designers of the commutating pole converters in Europe. The reply might be that the introduction of any new type of apparatus is a relatively slow process; but, on the other hand, interpoles on direct current generators and motors came into general use in a relatively short time, especially so in railway motors. This indicates that there has been a more or less pressing need for interpoles in certain classes of apparatus and the greater the need for the change the quicker was the change made. Any important change in design or type must be justified by engineering and commercial reasons, such as improved performance greater economy, or lower cost. In the railway motor, placed under the car, and more or less inaccessible, improved operation at the brushes and commutator, when equipped with interpoles, represented a pressing reason for the change in type, although the cost and efficiency were not appreciably changed. In the direct-current generator with the modern tendency toward higher speeds with lower cost, the interpoles represented a practical necessity. This has been recognized for several years and the change to the interpole type has been made as rapidly as circumstances will permit. Also, in variable-speed direct-current motors interpoles have been in general use for a number of years, simply because the interpoles represent a very definite improvement in a number of ways."
