"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Introduction and Summary The power diagram indicator was produced as a feasible, inexpensive instrument to observe dielectric or similar stray power losses that occur in high-tension circuits.1 A cathode ray-pointer is used to trace the power diagram. It is actuated electrostatically. The pressure of the high-tension circuit applied to “quadrants” causes a proportional displacement of the ray-pointer in one axis; the pressure drop between the terminals of a condenser in series with the high-tension circuit is applied to the other pair of quadrants and gives the ray-pointer a quadrature velocity proportional to the current. The ray-pointer is thus made to trace a diagram that encloses an area proportional to the e.m.f.-current-time product.2 Alternating current will produce a closed diagram or “card” having an area which is proportional to the energy of the circuit delivered per cycle. At constant frequency, therefore, the card-area measures the power applied in the circuit. The form of the card tells of many things besides the amount of power just as the steam-engine indicator card does in steam engineering."
"In the experiments described below, investigations were made upon the variation in hysteresis loss in sheet steel when passing from ordinary atmospheric temperatures up to the point at which the material becomes non-magnetic. The measurements were made over as wide a range of induction as possible. In order to get consistent results it was found to be important that the observations at each temperature be made quickly, partly on account of the difficulty of holding the temperature constant and partly because, even with constant temperature slow changes occurred in the hysteresis which become especially pronounced at the higher temperatures."
"It is the purpose of this paper to describe briefly the Clement automanual telephone exchange system, explain its principles, and show some of the results it has produced. For proper presentation, and in order to make necessary comparisons, the subject will be developed as follows:"
"In order that a transmission system may satisfy the operating engineer it should fulfill the following conditions:"
"The object of this paper is to give the results of a number of years of operation of the Snoqualmie Falls Transmission system of the Seattle-Tacoma Power Company and to deduce therefrom practical conclusions as to the effectiveness of the method of operation used. The discussion will be confined entirely to the transmission system, and the possibilities of insuring continuous service by means of auxiliary steam plants will not be considered. Each high-tension system is a problem in itself and must be worked out with respect to its individual features and conditions, such as generating capacity in kilowatts, length of lines, size of wires, ratio of resistance and reactance, line voltage and climatic conditions. It is believed however, that a log of the operating results of a particular system is worthy of record, if the conditions of operation are correctly described."
"The furnaces for the refining of steel electrically, which have passed the experimental stage, may be divided into two distinct groups, viz., arc furnaces and induction furnaces."
"The standard means of communication on railroads for despatching and blocking trains and transmitting messages for the past 60 years has been the telegraph. Although the telephone obviously possessed some advantages over the telegraph for railroad work, the fact that the railroads had been using the telegraph for such a long period and with such reliable results, made them loath to adopt a new and to them untried arrangement. About four years ago, however, a combination of circumstances arose which strongly focused the minds of railway officials upon the feasibility of the telephone to replace the telegraph for railroad work. The most important circumstance causing this result was the enactment of a federal law limiting the working hours of an operator transmitting or receiving orders affecting train movements, to nine hours. In addition to this, there had been a growing difficulty among the railroad companies in securing a sufficient number of competent operators to take care of the natural increase in business. It was also felt that the efficiency of the railroad telegraph operators had been steadily decreasing for some time, this state of affairs probably being brought about by the attitude of the Telegraphers' Organization toward student operators."
"The adoption of electricity for power in the lumber industry of the Northwest is of comparatively recent date although conditions are peculiarly favorable to its use. In the greater number of instances power can be generated locally at a very cheap rate by utilizing the waste products as fuel. These waste products have, so far, little commercial value and in the past any fuel in excess of the quantity required for the steam units and auxiliary machinery has been conveyed to a burner and destroyed. Saw mills, as a rule, are located in remote and sparsely settled districts where the problem of transportation to markets where the by-products of sawdust, shavings and inferior slab wood could be used, makes it scarcely worth while."
"Automatic schemes for establishing connections between telephones were devised early in the history of the telephone movement and many of the first patents, which were issued for telephone inventions, were for devices which are the forefathers of the automatic equipment in use to-day."
"The subject of transmission applied to irrigation covers a very broad field of electrical, hydraulic and mechanical engineering. It presents problems of finance and agriculture and must also be viewed from the humanitarian standpoint. There are a number of distinct conditions which lead to the use of transmitted power for pumping in connection with irrigation projects. The more important of these conditions are the following:"
"The object of this paper is to place before the practical engineer and railroad man the facts concerning trunk line electrification, and bring home to him the simple truth that it can be treated in a class of its own; practically no exceptions existing therefrom. I would recommend that we be wary of the old expression so often repeated — “Every situation is a study in itself”, and see if we cannot recognize a standard that will apply to all. In this connection I venture the opinion that there is no trunk line situation that exists to-day, but what there is a construction drawing in the New Haven engineering files that would have immediate application. No one can extract any individual credit for this fact; it is entirely due to the system itself, as it possesses the required elements of simplicity and flexibility. The religion of this paper is to preach the doctrine of universal use of single-phase current on trunk line roads inclusive of suburban and terminal territory, as applied to freight and passenger operation, and I offer for consideration the standardization of 11,000 volts on the contact wire and a system frequency of 25 cycles. In suggesting 11,000 volts on the contact wire, this is advocated for application on railroad right-of-way which may be adjacent to foreign road territory to permit of one company's equipment operating upon the right-of-way of another. This voltage is recommended as a minimum potential; it being recognized that there is no objection to a higher voltage on other lines individual to themselves where transmission economy can be obtained by the use of the higher voltage."
"The oscillations here defined as “cisoidal oscillations” are those of the form"
"The desirability of being able to determine quickly and with reasonable accuracy and cost the hysteresis and eddy losses in sheet iron for use in transformers and other alternating current apparatus is fully appreciated and need not be discussed. The arrangements that have been devised by various workers along this line, some of which have been described,∗ evince the fact that the subject has received much attention from time to time and that the methods of testing samples by means of ballistic galvanometer or by wattmeter test on complete apparatus are not entirely satisfactory."
"The Pittsfield-Schenectady Mid-Year Convention will be held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, February 14, 15 and 16. A tentative program of the papers to be presented is as follows:"
"Preparations for the Institute meeting at Los Angeles, Cal., on April 25, 26, 27 and 28, 1911, are now being made by the local committee appointed by President Jackson, consisting of the following Members and Associates:"
"The Cleveland Section will hold its next meeting on Monday evening, February 20, 1911. The meeting will be in charge of Dr. E. P. Hyde, of the National Electric Lamp Association, and papers upon the following subjects will be presented: “Street Lighting with Mazda Lamps”, by J. E. Henniger “Physiology of Glare”, by P. W. Cobb; “Production of Artificial Daylight”, by Dr. Herbert E. Ives. Howard Dingle, Secretary, 912 N. E. Building, Cleveland, Ohio."
"In the discussion at the meeting of December 9, 1910, the use of the word “deceleration”, by one of the speakers, prompted me to make a vehement protest against such absurd words, and to make a plea in behalf of decent technical American English. My remarks relative to this objectionable word have been expunged from the discussion, as being really extraneous to the subject of the paper under discussion. There are so many, however, who cannot distinguish between the real and the counterfeit, in technical word-coinage, that “deceleration” will continue to grow in popularity, unless attention is called publicly to its spurious character. I am glad, therefore, to accept the suggestion of the editing committee, that my views about this word, and others of the same stamp, be published in the Proceedings."
"The development of the Sections has been the most marked and the most promising feature of Institute activity during the last few years. A movement now on foot, which may lead to the formation of a New York Section, will complete the change of the body from a local to a truly national footing. Undoubtedly with the growth of the Institute the number of Sections will be very much increased and probably nearly every large city will have a Section. The effect of this upon the work of the Institute and especially upon its financial resources demands very serious consideration. The expense of maintaining these Sections has now reached a point where it becomes highly important to plan for its limitation in the future, as all the natural tendencies point to a very rapid increase. In order that Sections may produce the best results they must have available certain funds for legitimate expenses, and the greater these sums the more benefits may be obtained. The object of the local Sections is to give the Institute members living at a distance from New York as nearly as possible equal advantages with residents of that city. It is not generally understood that the Institute rooms in the Engineers' Building are but little used by the membership at large, and the work of the executive offices, by which they are occupied, applies equally to all parts of the country. The changes made last year in the rules for holding meetings make it' possible for regular Institute meetings to be held at any place when regularly authorized, thus putting all parts of the country as nearly as possible on an equal footing. In order, however, to obtain the best results with Section work, it is desirable to evolve some plan for taking care of the expenses other than will be possible with any permissible extension of the present system. Such a way has been indicated by the results which have been obtained at Schenectady, Pittsfield and Fort Wayne. At Schenectady, the local Section was formed from the old General Electric Engineering Society the members of which were not all Institute members but who were continued as local members of the Section after its formation and who contributed annually a nominal amount of dues. This gave them the privileges of the Section, but not all those of the Institute, and finally brought practically all of them into the national body. In the three places mentioned, there are a large number of young men, many recently graduated from college, to whom the question of joining the Institute means an item of some expense and who are more readily induced to become local members of a Section. Whether or not local members should be individuals not fully qualified for Associate membership is a question which can best be left to each local Section. It is, however, not necessary to go beyond the eligibility for the national body in order to obtain a large local membership. A great many men can be induced to become local members who are not prepared to join the national body, but practically all of whom will do so later. This means that local membership becomes an easy step into the Associate grade and acts as a very advantageous factor in finally making Institute members. While the conditions at other places necessarily differ from those where manufacturing interests are established, there is probably no place where there is not a very considerable field for local membership, and this membership can very advantageously be charged with small annual dues — one or two dollars per capita. These men are eligible to attend all of the meetings and to take an active part therein. They may receive the advance copies of Institute papers, and probably many will present original papers before the local Sections. Local membership accomplishes several very desirable objects: It renders the Sections self-supporting and entirely relieves the Institute from any financial expense: it very greatly enlarges the possible scope of local Institute work and permits of many attractive features being added to the yearly program; it brings a great many members later into the national body in an easy way, and is one of the best means of acquiring such membership. In places where the national membership consists of older men, and especially where the number is somewhat limited, it allows a larger and more appreciative audience, and is indirectly of very great benefit to the younger men of the profession. Experience has proved that local members always desire to become Associates as soon as conditions permit. The solution of this problem must lie entirely with the local Sections, and any action in this direction must be entirely voluntary. Sections are, however, strongly urged to investigate this matter, and an appreciation of the benefits to be derived therefrom will undoubtedly tend to greatly increase the number of these local organizations which are self-supporting."
"The quality of steel depends not only on the chemical composition, but also upon the treatment of it during the process of manufacture, and it is essential that samples of the various melts be tested for losses, etc. Due to the hardening effect of shearing or punching, which increases the losses, it is advisable to anneal test samples after punching. From an industrial standpoint the aim is to obtain a test which will give accurate results in the shortest time and using the minimum amount of steel. There are many methods which will give very accurate results, but most of them are slow and therefore impractical for commercial work. The oldest and best known method for determining losses in steel is by the use of the ballistic galvanometer, but the slow and tedious process of plotting a curve of induction and magnetizing force and of obtaining the area of the resulting hysteresis loop is not rapid enough for factory testing; furthermore, it gives no idea of the eddy current losses. Professor Ewing's apparatus for obtaining hysteresis losses offers a purely mechanical determination, the sample of steel being revolved between the poles of a permanent magnet and the torque being read directly by means of a pointer moving over a graduated scale. Its principal advantage is its rapidity of test, small amount of material used, and simplicity of operation. The eddy current losses cannot be obtained, and the samples are so narrow that a large percentage is affected by the cutting; also the range of densities for which it may be used are very limited. Alternating current methods using voltmeter and wattmeter are universally recognized as the most rapid and accurate methods of testing transformer steel. By a single observation at one density and frequency, the total watts lost in the sample due to eddy current and hysteresis are obtained. A sine wave and a generator of fairly large capacity should be used. Voltage control must never be obtained by variable resistance or inductance in the magnetizing circuit. Some of the best known alternating current methods are Kapps' yoke test and the Epstein test which was designed by the hysteresis committee of the German Association of Electrical Engineers. The Epstein method has recently been modified by the Bureau of Standards so that less material is necessary. The so-called “ring test” is also employed a great deal at the present time. It has the advantage of practically no leakage and that but small magnetizing current is required. There are many factors which affect the results of the above method, such as pressure, insulation and temperature, and great care should therefore be taken in making the determinations."
"The high-tension transmission committee of the Institute wishes at this time to call the attention of members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers to the plan and work of a joint committee of the National Electric Light Association, the American Railway Engineering and Maintenance of Way Association, and the American Electric Railway Association, which is preparing an overhead crossing specification applicable to practically all aerial crossings of electric power wires over telephone or railway systems, and which expects to secure the adoption of this specification, when completed, by general consent, as the standard specification for such crossings."
"The regular meeting of the Baltimore Section was held on the evening of December 23, 1910. A paper entitled “A Preliminary Study of a Hydroelectric Plant near Baltimore”, by J. B. Scott and A. P. Meyer was read by Mr. Scott. The development in question was that of the Patapsco River and proposed a dam 20 feet high and a pipe line four miles long to an effective head of 120 feet. Much interesting comment was brought out in the discussion that followed."
"Mr. Humberto Fonts announces a change in his address from Companario 17 to Empedrado 59, Havana, Cuba."
"William H. Browne died at his residence, 86 South Tenth Street, Brooklyn, N. Y., on Saturday night, January 14, 1911. Mr. Browne was 61 years of age. He was born in Troy, N. Y., on December 3, 1849, and was educated in the Academy of Christian Brothers, Ste. Jean Baptiste De La Salle, of that city. From 1866 to 1887 he was engaged in various branches of mechanical work and general contracting. Later he turned his attention to electricity and became general manager of a syndicate which built the Richmond Union Passenger Railway, Virginia Electric Light and Power Company, and other electrical enterprises in Richmond, Va. He subsequently became associated with the United Electric Light and Power Company as general manager and was in charge when the first alternating-current, high-tension generators were installed for lighting purposes. From New York Mr. Browne went to Montreal, P. Q., where he took charge of the Royal Electric Company, which he built up. He changed the entire lighting system from 1,200 volts to 2,400 volts, and installed the polyphase system of current distribution for lighting and power purposes, considered radical departures at the time. In 1897 the Chambly Manufacturing Company, under Mr. Browne's direction, began the development of hydraulic power on the Richelieu River at Chambly Rapids, to furnish power for Montreal. The following year he completed the works of the Cataract Power Company at Hamilton, Ont. He later turned, over to the Canadian General Electric Company the manufacturing business of the Royal Electric Company. The consolidation of the Royal Electric Company, the Chambly Manufacturing Company, and the Montreal Gas Company, under the name of Montreal Light, Heat and Power Company, Mr. Browne's last work in Canada, completed the largest industrial organization in Canada. On January 31, 1902, he resigned his position as head of the new company to become treasurer and general manager of the Stanley Instrument Company, Great Barrington, Mass. When the Stanley Company was merged with the General Electric Company Mr. Browne opened offices in New York as consulting engineer. When taken ill he was engaged in building the largest water power dam in North Carolina, under the name of the Rockingham Power Company. He became an Associate of the Institute on May 20, 1902."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment:"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A few years ago the advantages of electric light and power were considered to belong to cities and the larger towns alone, but it is becoming recognized that with properly organized companies and with plants suitably planned the benefits of electric lighting and power may be supplied at reasonable cost also in sparsely settled regions."
"Introduction. The problem of interrupting an electrical circuit which may be momentarily carrying millions of kilowatts is exceedingly difficult. The greater concentration of power at present under way and the obstacles to be overcome in controlling the huge electrical circuits of these developments are matters which were foreseen by the manufacturers, who keenly appreciative of the importance of these problems, are making earnest efforts to meet the conditions imposed. Unfortunately, it is inconvenient and at times even hazardous to make tests determining the ultimate rupturing capacity of heavy-duty oil circuit breakers, since these tests require the use of the largest power plants now in existence and those responsible for these power developments are rarely willing to loan their equipment for such tests. On account of the variable conditions of service reports obtained are of limited value and manufacturers are forced to accept incomplete information on the action of oil circuit breakers under operating conditions. This state of affairs is greatly improved where the engineers of the large power companies coöperate with the designers and carefully record and freely interchange data relating to all unusual disturbances."
"The voltage regulation of generators was recognized to be an important factor in central station operation as early as the first installation of the Edison bi-polar generator. At the time these generators were first installed it was found that owing to the poor regulation of the prime movers, which were very poor regulating engines, that with fluctuating loads lighting was not very satisfactory when connected to the same dynamo which operated power loads, and in order to produce constant voltage a regulator, which was practically an automatic rheostat having the rheostat switch controlled by a solenoid, was designed."
"The writer has published a previous paper on the subject of electric ship propulsion and has, in that and elsewhere, given out a good deal of information concerning designs which have been prepared. The purpose of this paper is to describe some of the newest designs of this kind which have been made and to explain some of their features more fully so that their merits may be intelligently considered by engineers who may be interested."
"With the many improvements made in distributing transformers during the past few years, especially since the advent of the so-called silicon steels (by the use of which the iron loss of transformers has been greatly reduced), the tendency has been to lay particular stress upon the iron loss characteristics, with the result that other electrical characteristics, such as exciting current and regulation, have scarcely received the attention that their importance deserves. In reviewing the published claims made by the various manufacturers, we find that the two last named characteristics have not been improved in the same proportion as the iron loss. While the author recognizes that both a low exciting current and good regulation are of great importance, this paper will be confined to a discussion of regulation; its relation to the other characteristics of distributing transformers and its effect on the economical operation of the modern central station."
"Limitations on the distance to which power can be transmitted electrically have been investigated from time to time. In this paper it is the purpose to point out that the limiting distance of transmission is not the limit of economical interconnection and that there is probably no such limit. It is also the purpose to outline certain principles of electric transmission which indicate the line along which unlimited extension of electric networks may proceed."
"Everyone understands the vector representation of simple alternating electromotive forces and currents, and therefore a skeleton outline will be sufficient to call to mind the connection between: (a) the two styles of clock-diagram, and (b) the usual geometrical conventions in trigonometry and the usual conventions governing the geometrical interpretations of complex quantity in algebraic analysis."
"The object of this brief is to present the writer's views on the proper vector representation of alternating-current phenomena. The question is attacked from the point of view of the teacher of alternating currents to undergraduate students."
"Introduction Great accuracy in the high tension testing of insulating materials is not yet attainable, due to the variability of the materials, the difficulty of exactly controlling all the conditions of test, and in many cases, to the unreliability of the apparatus and methods employed."
"On January 1, 1911, the Bureau of Standards will adopt a new value for the electromotive force of the Weston normal cell, namely:"
"One of the most largely attended directors' meetings of the Institute in recent times was held on October 13, 1911, promptly at half past three. There were present 18 out of the maximum number of 23 of the directors, as follows: President Gano Dunn, New York; Junior Past-President Dugald C. Jackson, Boston; Vice-Presidents H. W. Buck, Percy H. Thomas and Willard G. Carlton, New York; David B. Rushmore and Charles W. Stone, Schenectady; Managers Arthur W. Berresford, Milwaukee; William S. Murray, New Haven, Henry H. Norris, Ithaca; Robert G. Black, Toronto; Fred S. Hunting, Fort Wayne; Farley Osgood Newark; Severn D. Sprong, Howel H. Barnes, Jr. and W. S. Rugg, New York; Treasurer George A. Hamilton, Elizabeth; and Acting Secretary F. L. Hutchinson, New York."
"The two hundred and sixty-fourth meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the Engineers' Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York — City, on Friday, October 13, 1911. The meeting was called to order by President Gano Dunn promptly at 8:30 p.m. Acting Secretary Hutchinson announced the election of 86 Associates at the meeting of the Board of Directors held during the afternoon, and the transfer of seven Associates, whose names appear elsewhere in this issue, to the grade of Member; also that the Board had authorized Branches of the Institute at Yale University and the Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College. President Dunn then gave a brief account of some of the more important results of the International Congress at Turin and the meeting of the International Electrotechnical Commission, as follows:"
"A large audience gathered at the October meeting of the Washington Section of the A. I. E. E. to hear an address by Dr. F. B. Jewett, transmission and protection engineer of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, on “Telephone Transmission Engineering.” The title of the paper, as explained by the speaker, might well have been made to embrace both telephone and telegraph transmission” engineering, so extensive and important has become the application of simultaneous simplex and duplex telegraphy to telephone circuits."
"The Board of Directors has under consideration the suggestion of arranging for a trip of inspection to the Panama Canal Zone during the coming winter."
"The first meeting of the Chicago Section for this season was held on Wednesday evening, September 27, in cooperation with the Electrical Section of the Western Society of Engineers. A paper was presented by Mr. S. G. Neiler, entitled “The Electrical and Mechanical Equipment of the New Terminal of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway.” This paper was the third of a series of three papers on the new terminal, and was discussed by Messrs. Seely, Ravlin, A. Bernent and Frank F. Fowle."
"MR. ALFRED MULLHAUPT, JR., has resigned his position with the Buffalo Forge Company to enter the sales department of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa."
"MR. EVERETT COPLEY, of the New York sales office of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, died at his home in New York on Thursday, September 27, 1911, after an operation for appendicitis followed by an attack of typhoid fever."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Much attention has been given to the large power plant in technical publications. This paper, on the other hand, will consider the costs of lighting and general service from the numerous small plants where the cost of service is so frequently and persistently referred to, not only before the plants are constructed but periodically during the operating life and also every time a lighting or power contract is let, a new unit is added or other extensions are proposed. As an example of this, at every renewal of arc lighting contracts with private plants there is generally severe competition and rates must be right to retain this business. Franchises for lighting and power generally go with the arc lighting contract, and if the latter business is lost, competition in all other branches is immediately introduced. This means furnishing arc lighting at little or no profit in many cases in order to retain the incandescent and power business which should in this case make a profit for the entire plant."
"It was voted by the Chamber of Government Delegates at the International Electrical Congress of St. Louis in 1904, that an international electrotechnical commission should be established to carry on the work commenced at that Congress. The commission came into official existence in 1906, owing, in large measure, to the work of Colonel R. E. Crompton, C.B., who has served as its honorary secretary from its inception. The initiation of the organization was thus a sequel to the work of the St. Louis Congress. The first meeting of the commission, for organization, took place at London in L906, and was attended on behalf of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers by Messrs. F. B. Crocker, C. O. Mailloux, and C. H. Sharp. Lord Kelvin was elected the first President of the Commission, an organization was formed, and statutes adopted. M. C. leMaistre was appointed General Secretary, with an office in London, at 28 Victoria St."
"The two hundred and sixty-sixth meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, on Friday, December 8, 1911, at 8:15 p.m. A paper on “Methods of Varying Speeds of Alternating-Current Motors” will be read by Mr. Gus A. Maier, of the Power and Mining Department of the General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday afternoon, November 10. The following Directors were present: President Gano Dunn, New York, Past-president Dugald C. Jackson, Boston, Vice-presidents H. W. Buck and W. G. Carlton, New York, David B. Rushmore and Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y., Managers William S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., Henry H. Norris, Ithaca, N. Y., H. H. Barnes, Jr., Charles E. Scribner and Severn D. Sprong, New York, Treasurer George A. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J., and Acting Secretary F. L. Hutchinson, New York."
"HEARING BEFORE UNITED STATES NATIONAL WATERWAYS COMMISSION, WASHINGTON, D.C., Nov. 21, 1911 The difficult and unsatisfactory situation existing at present in regard to the development of water-powers of the United States, some time ago led the United States National Waterways Commission to set a public hearing for the discussion of water-power questions in Washington on November 21. The American Institute of Electrical Engineers was invited to attend and to contribute to this discussion, as were also a number of other. societies and certain individuals prominent in the field of water-power development. The Board of Directors regarded the acceptance of this invitation as a duty to the membership of the Institute in view of the provisions of the Constitution and in view of the public nature of the questions raised. On November 10, after careful consideration, and on recommendation of the Public Policy Committee, it passed the following resolutions unanimously:"
"A pleasing feature of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers meeting held in New York, November 10, 1911 was the presentation by Edward D. Adams of a bronze bust of the great German Scientist Hermann von Helmholtz. President Gano Dunn called the meeting to order and spoke as follows:"
"The two hundred and sixty-fifth meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the Engineers' Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Friday, November 10, 1911. The earlier part of the evening was taken up by the Von Helmholtz bust presentation ceremonies, an extended report of which will be found elsewhere in this issue. At the conclusion of these ceremonies a paper entitled “Magnetic Properties of Iron at Frequencies up to 200,000 Cycles” was presented by Mr. E. F. Alexanderson, of the General Electric Company. The paper was discussed by Dr. Harold Pender, Mr. B. A. Behrend, and Dr. C. P. Steinmetz."
"The committee on Panama trip is pleased to announce that the response of the membership to its circular of October 28th has been so favorable that the Board of Directors at its meeting of November 10th approved the recommendation of the committee that the trip be undertaken."
"At the second regular meeting of the University of Michigan Branch of the A. I. E. E., held on November 8, Mr. B. J. Denman, acting chief engineer of the Detroit Edison Company, presented a paper on “Cost of and Rates for Electric Service.” Mr. Denman explained the division of “cost” into “fixed charges” and “running expenses.” Fixed charges included interest on investment, depreciation of property, office expenses, and insurance. Running expenses included operating cost and maintenance, maintenance taking of minor alterations and repairs not chargeable to depreciation. The amount to be set aside each year to cover depreciation is based upon the estimated useful lifetime of the equipment. It may either be placed in a bank as a reserve fund or invested in the property. Three reasons given for 41 junking “equipment were wear,” “obsolescence”, and “inadequacy.” The latter does not always justify junking a piece of machinery, because it might be in good operating condition and therefore have a second-hand value which is greater than its value as junk."
"The John fritz medal for 1911, which was awarded to Sir William Henry White for “notable achievements in naval architecture,” was presented to the recipient of the honor at the dinner of the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York, on Friday evening, November 17, 1911."
"Mr. H. T. CASE has resigned as technical writer with the General Electric Company at Schenectady, N. Y., to enter the employ of the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario, Toronto, Ont."
"Mr. Edgar Woods Mix, a Member of the Institute, was drowned in the English Channel on the evening of November 12. Mr. Mix was born in Columbus, Ohio, on February 4, 1867. He graduated from the Ohio State University in June, 1888, with the degree of B.S. In August of that year he entered the employ of the Thomson-Houston Company, where he did work of various kinds inside and outside of the factory. In July, 1889 he took up the recording watt meter and conducted that department of the Thomson-Houston works until the regular organization of that department in May 1890. In August 1890 he went to Paris in connection with a watt-hour meter contest and established a factory there for building watt-hour meters for the Thomson-Houston International ElecElectric Company. He occupied the position of chief engineer of this firm until the first of November, when he resigned to become manager of the European division of the General Motors and Export Company. Mr. Mix became an Associate of the Institute on September 3, 1889, and was transferred to the grade of Member on March 20, 1895. Mr. Mix was also interested in aeronautics, and won the race for the Coupe Internationale des Aeronautes by flying from Zurich, Switzerland, on October 5, 1909, to a point near Warsaw, 696 miles, and he had been chosen delegate to the international aviation conference which opened in Rome on November 25, 1911. Mr. Mix was unmarried."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The measurements of magnetization, core loss and skin effect of iron at high frequencies described in the following were undertaken partly in order to get data for predetermining the core loss and magnetic densities in high frequency alternators and partly in order to investigate the possible usefulness of iron for transformer construction at high frequencies."
"The formulas relating to the behavior of long alternating-current lines of uniform resistance, inductance, capacitance and leakance, operated in the steady state, are very simply expressed in terms of hyperbolic functions; but are very long and cumbersome if expressed, with equal precision, without those functions. The absence of suitable tables∗ of hyperbolic functions of complex variables has, however, stood in the way of the general use of hyperbolic formulas. A few tables of such functions, in terms of real and imaginary components, have been published; but these are not so convenient for engineering purposes as tables of vector variables, using polar coördinates."
"At the present time it is the well-known tendency of the electrical industry concerned in the production of commercial power, to produce this power in central stations of as large a capacity as possible consistent with the field to be covered, the object being to thus produce the power at the least possible cost. For this reason, every item of cost involved must be considered and attention must be given to each item of expense which will have a tendency to enable the producer to reduce the power cost. The cost of power production involves various items which may be classed under three general headings."
"Electrical developments of recent years have been toward the extension of the use of alternating currents in every field where practicable, due to the advantages of distributing systems and the simplicity of the induction motor. For constant speed work, the field is well covered by the squirrel cage and polar wound motors. Various methods have been proposed for varying and adjustable speed work and this paper is to discuss the methods used and proposed."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The twenty-eighth Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Chicago, Ill., June 26, 27, 28, 29 arid 30, 1911."
"The Institute meeting at Los Angeles, April 25–28 was not only well attended, but was characteristic of the Pacific coast, by reason of the perfect arrangements, and the enthusiasm and good fellowship which prevailed. A year had elapsed since the San Francisco meeting, and consequently ample time was allowed for making adequate preparations. Notwithstanding the distance, the Atlantic states were fairly represented. Secretary Pope arrived at Los Angeles on May 24 and remained until May 29. He went by the Southern Pacific route in order to meet the members of Atlanta Section, making stops also at Birmingham and New Orleans."
"The annual meeting of the Institute May 16, was the occasion of the presentation of the Edison Medal and the accompanying certificate of award as determined by the Edison Medal Committee. The guests of honor with their escorts formed a procession marching up the main aisle of the auditorium at the opening of the meeting. Past-president Sprague was escorted by President Jackson, Past-president Thomson by Secretary Pope and Mr. Edison by Past-president Martin. Among the other guests of honor were Past-presidents Duncan, Crocker, Scott, Lieb, Wheeler, Sheldon, Stott and Stillwell also officers of national and local engineering and learned institutions."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Tuesday, May 16, 1911. The directors present were: President Dugald C. Jackson, Boston, Mass.; Past-President Lewis B. Stillwell, New York; Vice-Presidents Percy H. Thomas New York, W. G. Carlton, New York, Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y., A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., W. S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., S. D. Sprong, New York, H. H. Barnes, Jr., New York, W. S. Rugg, New York, C. E. Scribner, New York; Secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"Dr. C. P. Steinmetz was the guest and speaker at the meeting of the Baltimore Section held in the physical laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, on Friday evening, April 12. There was an audience of 121 members and visitors. Dr. Steinmetz gave a lecture on “Recent Advances in Electrical Engineering.” The lecture was followed by a discussion."
"Mr. B. A. Behrend has opened offices for engineering consultation at the John Hancock Building, 200 Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass."
"Mr. Richard H. Thomas, of New York City, who was elected an Associate of the Institute on August 17, 1904, died on January 23, 1911. Mr. Thomas was born at Brantford, Ontario, Canada, on January 25, 1868. He served for five years as apprentice with the Watson Engine Works Company of Brantford, and worked for five years throughout the United States and Canada in general engine, machine and electrical construction. He finally engaged in business on his own account at 107 Liberty Street, New York, as machinist and engineer, and general sales agent for the White and Middleton Gas Company of Baltimore, Md."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The phenomena which take place in the rotor of a single-phase motor, can be explained in two different ways. The first is that proposed by Galileo Ferraris, and consists in the resolution of a single-phase field into two fields rotating in opposite directions. The second is the method proposed and developed by Val. A. Fynn, which treats the alternating-current motor problems on a basis similar to those of the direct-current motor. The latter method has given a big impetus to the general understanding of the working conditions of the single-phase motor. Both methods lead naturally to the same result. Frequently it is of interest and very instructive to solve certain problems by the use of both methods, since a comparison between the two frequently throws more light on the subject. In this paper the wave shape of the currents in an individual conductor of a single phase motor will be determined, first by Ferraris' method, by making use of the rotating field theory; and secondly by Fynn's method."
"The design of an electromagnet for a given duty can as a rule be varied considerably, and while it is comparatively easy to design a magnet that will serve a certain purpose, it requires careful consideration to find the most economical design in any given case."
"In a former paper1 with the title of the present one the author described a series of investigations of the conditions under which the air breaks down in the neighborhood of clean, round wires subjected to high voltage. A principal feature of that paper was the description of a method for observing with a close degree of accuracy the critical or corona voltage for various sizes of wire when centred in cylinders forming the opposite side of the source of voltage. There has been a great diversity in the values of critical voltage as given by other observers, who for the most part have used the appearance of the visible corona and the readings of instruments in the primary circuits of transformers as indications of the voltage at which the air breaks down. The method referred to was developed as the result of a conviction that the laws governing the loss between high-tension lines could not be satisfactorily determined without a study and knowledge of the fundamental phenomena. So far therefore these investigations have been concerned only with the conditions under which the air actually breaks down causing a large increase in conductivity and power loss. The results of the former paper show among other things that when corrected for wave form, temperature and pressure the electric intensity at the surface of a clean, round conductor, corresponding to the voltage at which corona starts and loss sets in is a constant for each size of wire. This value of surface intensity varies with the temperature and pressure and is that corresponding to the maximum value of the voltage wave. It is different for different sizes of wire but is independent of the material of the wire, of the moisture content, and of the amount of free ionization in the air. In the present paper some further facts bearing on the fundamental relation between diameter and critical surface intensity are given, and a series of investigations of the influence of stranding a conductor, of variations of atmospheric pressure, and of frequency on the critical electric intensity are also described."
"Solutions for sag and span problems occurring in overhead line construction have been developed from time to time by many authors. Frequently during the process of development one author has taken up the work where his predecessor left off and has endeavored to make the formula more complete. Such solutions heretofore developed are approximate, and apply to the case where the sag is very small compared to the span. All solutions up to the present time are based upon the assumption that a span of wire forms the arc of a parabola. The formulæ are approximately derived and are mathematically inconsistent. For instance, the formula for length of arc in a span, instead of being derived from the parabola is derived in an approximate manner from the circle. Again the stress value is taken at the center of span and assumed to be constant at every point along the wire, when in reality it varies at every point, reaching maximum values at the supports. Further certain small errors occur in formulæ dealing with the effect of changes in temperature and stress. Again, in the case where one support is higher than the other, a certain discrepancy occurs which will be explained later under that particular heading. However, when the sag is very small compared to the span, the error introduced by the formulæ is of no practical consequence, although when the sag increases sufficiently there may be considerable error introduced. The data produced by the solutions are adaptable to a limited number of span values and usually are adaptable to only one material. Complete recalculation is necessary for a second material."
"The method here described for calculating sags, and strains in suspended wires was devised to shorten the process of the transmission line computations, especially where the effect of temperature is to be considered. The method is a semi-graphical one and involves no numerical operations other than may be performed by the simplest slide rule manipulation. The method is based on the assumption that the suspended conductor conforms to the catenary, which is generally considered to be the actual fact, although as far as the writer is informed no scientifically accurate verification on a large scale under practical conditions has been attempted. The results obtained by the use of the catenary basis will not differ from those derived from the usual parabola formulae more than 10 per cent in the strain for a sag of 7.5 per cent. For larger sags, however, the difference rapidly increases. A description of the use of the method will be given, followed by a brief statement of the mathematical justification therefor."
"There is to-day probably no subject requiring more illumination and coördination by the engineering profession than that of depreciation. The recent generally recognized necessity on the part of individuals and corporations, and the increasingly insistent demands by commissions, legislatures, and courts for proper allowances covering the reduction in worth of physical properties — be it more or less rapid — has resulted in a divergence of thought and a lack of uniformity of practice that is bewildering."
"The theory of telegraph transmission, in its broadest aspect, involves the many systems which have appeared from time to time. A treatment of them all is much beyond the scope of a paper of this nature, but fortunately a great many can be eliminated by reason of their limited commercial use. The considerations in this paper are limited to the closed-circuit Morse system, which has been practically supreme in American practice for many years. High-speed automatic systems have enjoyed but little use in this country and a theoretical consideration of such transmission, while very interesting, has a limited practical value at the present time. Considering its commercial importance, it is not easy to understand why the theory of Morse transmission has remained so long in a state of apparent neglect. Perhaps this is due in some measure to the difficulty of the subject, but certainly it cannot be ascribed to the lack of interesting or commercially important problems."
"The experimental results and investigations presented in this paper have the object of showing the possibilities of operating polyphase motors from single-phase circuit, particularly with a view of the use of such a system where heavy starting duty is required. At various times there have been suggested schemes for changing single-phase current into polyphase current for such purposes, but those schemes have never been taken very seriously on account of their ineffectiveness in producing a balanced polyphase current."
"The following paper is an investigation of the losses produced in a system by the distributing transformers, with a view to determining the cost to the central station of supplying these losses. The cost of the losses occurring in a transformer is of the same order of magnitude as the cost of the transformer itself and should, therefore, receive the same amount of consideration. If a transformer had a perfect magnetic (iron) circuit and a perfect electric (copper) circuit, no losses would be produced if it were placed on a system. Hence the losses which do actually occur come into two general divisions, viz.: (1) Losses due to imperfect iron, and (2) Losses due to imperfect copper."
"Some time ago the writer had occasion to look into the matter of the organization and conduct of universities, especially state universities, with a view to making some suggestions along these lines in connection with a state university. A search for printed matter bearing upon the subject seemed to indicate a scarcity of available information of a specific nature and most of such matter as was available bore upon certain phases, only, of the subject. It also seemed to indicate that there is considerable room for improvement in the present organization and administration of most, if not all, of the state universities."
"The load conditions under which motors driving continuous running rolling mills operate is generally understood, and the advantage to be obtained by using a suitably designed flywheel is well known. Owing to the rapidly fluctuating load, some system of energy storage capable of performing a large amount of work for short periods must obviously be of considerable value not only from the standpoint of motor operation but also from that of power supply. Several papers have been read before this Institute dealing with the question of the action of flywheels with such loads and the advantage has been clearly demonstrated. The value of flywheels can be best appreciated when used with mills with very high and short peak loads, such as a blooming mill, where loads up to 10,000 h.p. for one or two seconds are not infrequent. The antithesis of this type of mill is the reversing mill where every effort is made to reduce the flywheel effect to a minimum so that the accelerating force required may be kept within reasonable limits. Most engineers connected with industrial work are familiar with the development of electrically driven continuous running mills but the development of the reversing mill is not generally appreciated except by those more or less connected with their design and operation. The object of this paper is to briefly review some of the more important points in its design and operation."
"The performance of current transformers when their secondaries supply simple series loads, and the methods of test for determining the errors introduced by the transformer when used with known secondary connected loads have been considered in previous papers. The secondaries of two or three current transformers whose primaries are supplied from the lines of a three-phase circuit, are, however, frequently interconnected to save room, simplify wiring, and diminish cost. In this case the equivalent load carried by the current transformer secondary can not be determined in the simple manner that applies to an ordinary series connection, since the devices used in a series circuit may constitute a very different equivalent load when used in an interconnected circuit. An understanding of the equivalent load carried by each transformer is necessary in order to determine suitable limits of load from results of tests made in the ordinary manner. The term “equivalent load” is here used to indicate the load carried by the secondary of a current transformer where this may differ from that obtained by combining in series the resistances and reactances of the devices used."
"The high-efficiency type of suspension insulator has become an important factor in high-tension transmission within the last few years, and it is hoped that the considerations which led to the design of this type will be of interest."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith for the information of the membership its annual report for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1911."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors held at the Hotel Sherman, Chicago June 27, the resignation of Ralph Wainwright Pope, Secretary of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, was received and accepted by the Board to take effect August 1, 1911. The President was authorized to appoint a committee in cooperation with the President-elect to canvass candidates for the office of Secretary and report its recommendations to the Board of Directors. President Jackson subsequently appointed as this committee, Gano Dunn, Chairman, H. W. Buck and W. S. Rugg."
"Nineteen years had elapsed since the Institute held a convention in Chicago, and when the location was selected for the twenty eighth convention in 1911, there were early indications of a large attendance."
"A meeting of the Institute Board of Directors was held at the Hotel Sherman, Chicago, on June 27, 1911. The directors present were: President D. C. Jackson, Boston, Mass.; Vice-President P. M. Lincoln, Pittsburg, Pa.; Managers David B. Rushmore, Schenectady, N.Y. Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y., A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis. S. D. Sprong, New York, W. S. Rugg, New York, C. E. Scribner, New York, and Secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"A special meeting of the Fort Wayne Section was held on Monday evening, June 5, in order that the members might hear a lecture by Mr. W. D. A. Ryan, of the General Electric Company, Schenectady, on “Modern Illumination.” Notwithstanding the heat, 85 members and guests were present at the lecture, which was particularly opportune due to a recent municipal controversy on the subject of street lighting. Mr. Ryan was introduced by Chairman E. A. Wagner, and after a review of the history of lighting, he took up in detail all matters pertaining to the general development of the modern arc lamp, showing the increasing light efficiency with each successive stage of development. This was illustrated with candle-power diagrams which were thoroughly explained for the benefit of the non-technical men in the audience. A number of the” different types of arc lamps were arranged with lenses projecting a view of the electrodes on the screen in such a manner that the action of the electrodes in meeting and forming an arc and crater could be shown in a most interesting manner. The problem of ornamental street lighting was also discussed, and lastly, Mr. Ryan gave a full description of the wonderful electrical effects produced at the Hudson-Fulton celebration."
"MR. NORMAN READ has been appointed electrical engineer with the Denver City Tramway Company, Denver, Colo."
"Mr. William R. Brixey, of the Kerite Insulated Wire and Cable Company, New York City, died suddenly at Milford, Conn., on June 9. Mr. Brixey was born in Southampton, England, on May 11, 1851. After leaving school he entered the British Mercantile Service, commanding his own ship, and visiting all the leading ports of the world. He came to this country in 1878 and went into business with his brother-in-law, Mr. A. G. Day, a pioneer in the American rubber industry and the inventor of kerite. In 1879 Mr. Brixey married Miss Francis N. De Wolfe, daughter of Alva G. DeWolfe, a co-worker of Mr. Day's and also an inventor of some note. The Day plant was at Seymour, Conn., and there Mr. Brixey developed the business with remarkable energy and intelligence, mastering it in every detail and becoming general manager on the death of Mr. Day, and sole proprietor on the death of his sister, Mrs. Day. Mr. Brixey was not satisfied with the use of his cables in the telegraph and telephone field or with the early endorsement of such men as Morse, but pushed out into larger developments in other fields. Noteworthy among these were the supplying and laying of the Alaskan cable, the furnishing of the Canal Zone cable, and the furnishing of the wires and cables for the Pennsylvania tunnel and terminal connecting the two shores of the Hudson and East Rivers. In 1908 Mr. Brixey incorporated the business as a company, and soon after retired, leaving it to the management of his eldest son, Mr. Richard D. Brixey, president of the Kerite Insulated Wire and Cable Company. Mr. Brixey left two other sons, Mr. Reginald W. Brixey, vice-president, and Mr. Austin D. Brixey, secretary of the company. Mr. Brixey was quite active in public life. Besides being an Associate of the Institute, he was a member of the Old Guard of New York City with the rank of captain, a member of the Brooklyn Club, and a highdegree Mason. Mr. Brixey's wife died in 1909, and he is survived only by the three sons mentioned. He became associated with the Institute on September 20, 1893."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers are pleased to refer to electrical engineering as a Profession, and to the Institute itself as a Professional Society. When this occurs as a thoughtless repetition of fine sounding words, it has little meaning, since mere repetition of an alleged truth does not. make it a real truth, and it can be established as a real truth only by tracing it to some adequate foundation. But when those statements arise from a ripe understanding that the word profession means more than a mere organized vocation for earning one's bread, it has a high and commendable meaning. The word profession “implies professed attainments in special knowledge, as distinguished from mere skill; a practical dealing with affairs, as distinguished from mere study or investigation; and an application of such knowledge to uses for others, as a vocation, as distinguished from its pursuit for one's own purposes.” This sets the professional man in a position which demands from him an attitude of service and of leadership. He must have a masterly knowledge, in addition to skill in a vocation. He must deal practically in the affairs or needs of men. His duties must be performed with a touch of disinterested spirit in addition to the vocational spirit of earning his livelihood. Such men have a duty to the public; and in the performance of that duty they must exert their influence on that thought and practice of the day which affects the welfare and progress of the nation. We as electrical engineers cannot escape that duty in case we wish to maintain the professional character of our occupation."
"It is the purpose of this paper to deal with a few of the many operating problems that confront a telephone company, serving a territory made up of several hundred communities of varying types ranging from a large Metropolitan area to sparsely settled rural districts."
"The proceedings of our engineering societies abound in papers and discussions on the merits of steam and electric operation of railroads in which data are used, which to a large extent are lacking in figures taken from the actual cost of operation. A general impression prevails that operating officers of railroads will not consent to the publication of their operating costs. This to some extent may be true, but where such figures are correctly understood and properly used there should be no objection to their publication."
"The transformers at the Glenwood power house and at all substations are delta connected. The transformers at the Boulder power house are Y connected on account of better voltage ratio, and are operated with ungrounded neutral."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, under the auspices of the Boston Section, and with the coöperation of the Boston Society of Civil Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, will be held in Boston on Friday evening, February 17, 1911. Mr. R. A. Philip, of the Stone and Webster Engineering Corporation will present a paper on certain phases of the general subject of economic limitations to aggregation of power systems. This paper is intended to elaborate on the suggestion contained in the paper on “Smoke Abatement in New England”, read by Mr. D., T. Randall before the joint meeting in Boston on November 10, that control of the smoke nuisance could be brought about only by the centralization of coal burning plants in large units and the elimination of miscellaneous coal burners."
"The two hundred and fifty-fourth meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the auditorium of the Engineers Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Friday evening, December 9, 1910. President Dugald C. Jackson presided and called the meeting to order at 8:15 p.m. The Secretary announced that at the meeting of the Board of Directors held during the afternoon 70 Associates were elected, and two Associates were transferred to the grade of Member. The names of the Associates elected and those transferred are printed elsewhere in this issue. A paper entitled “Testing Steam Turbines and Steam-Turbo Generators”, by E. D. Dickinson and L. T. Robinson, was then read by Mr. Dickinson. The paper was discussed by Messrs. Gano Dunn, W. L. R. Emmet, F. M. Hodgkinson, W. L. Robb, E. D. Dreyfus, W. C. L. Eglin, C. O. Mailloux, J. Mason Knox, A. H. Pikler, E. W. Yearsley and E. B. Rosa."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Friday, December 9, 1910. The directors present were: President Dugald C. Jackson, Boston, Mass.; Past-president Lewis B. Stillwell, New York; Vice-presidents Paul Spencer, Philadelphia, Pa., H. W. Buck, New York, Percy H. Thomas, New York-Managers David B. Rushmore, Schenectady, N. Y., H. E. Clifford, Cambridge, Mass., A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., W. S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., S. D. Sprong, New York, H. H. Barnes, Jr., New York, R. G. Black, Toronto, Ont.; Secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"The accepted definition of an electrical power plant is that it is an aggregation of machinery and apparatus for converting the latent energy of some combustible or the potential energy of falling water into electrical energy. The engineer must keep in mind the fact that for every set of conditions there is a particular type of plant which, under those conditions, will return the largest dividends. The most important conditions affecting the design of a power plant are: (1) The site; (2) the cost of coal; (3) water supply; (4) character of load; (5) capacity of the station. The site of a proposed plant is important because accessibility to a market for power often means lower investment cost and subsequent maintenance of transmission lines, and available sources of coal and water must always be large factors in the determination of a proper site. In congested districts where real estate is high the designer must keep within certain reasonable limits as to floor space to keep down investment costs. Coal prices determine largely the result of possible competition. Hydroelectric plants cannot compete with steam plants when coal prices fall much below $2.25 per ton. On the other hand they are serious competitors if prices rise to $3.00 and above. Water supply affects power plant design very largely both in hydroelectric and steam plants. Abundance of water supply is not alone sufficient. Certain localities possess water supplies favorable for hydroelectric plants but very adverse to steam plants because vegetable growths and chemical properties lead to annoying boiler and condenser scale. Load characteristics determine machine types and initial investments. Lighting loads are heavy at night and usually very light during the day. Proper design to meet these conditions enables the installation to stand the peak at 100 per cent overload for a short time and carry the day load at about normal. Power loads, as railway and industrial, are comparatively regular and require therefore their own special apparatus. Load characteristics also affect the price at which power may be sold. Station capacity is of course dependent upon load characteristics and the possible increase in future market. Every plant should be designed to meet competition even though it does not exist, for the successful plant is one properly designed and engineered from the start. It has been said that efficiency does not always mean economy. Efficiency can be had under ideal conditions but these are obtained only by high investment and maintenance costs. The designer's object is to combine efficiency and economy so as to obtain the best plant. Comparatively few items vary with load conditions. These are coal, oil, waste, etc. Labor, maintenance and repairs, depreciation, interest, taxes, insurance, etc., are entirely independent of load conditions. Comparison of various types of plants shows that results are about equal but that first costs and fuel charges influence economical operation greatly. When one realizes that 25 or 30 per cent of power costs above investment charges is for fuel these facts impress him more. Gas engine plants cost more to install than steam engine plants and up to coal costs of $2.00 per ton, the cheaper steam plant is a competitor but when coal prices are higher the results are reversed. Likewise the hydroelectric plant is a competitor of both gas engine and steam plants when coal is high but at lower prices results may be reversed."
"The Necaxa development has its origin in the mountainous regions of Mexico. By an elaborate system of storage reservoirs, dams, dikes, tunnels and inverted steel siphons, extending back into the country 25 miles, the waters of several rivers, including the Necaxa, are diverted into one valley, and there directed onto the turbine wheels which drive the large electrical generators supplying power to the surrounding country. The City of Mexico has approximately 400,000 population, with another 100,000 near by, and it is planned to supply all the electrical needs of this population from the Necaxa development. Perpetual rights have been granted by the Mexican government and many millions of dollars are still to be expended in perfecting the system. Due to the warm gulf winds condensing upon the plateaus there is an average rainfall of 135 inches per year, so that with a large storage system such as is being constructed at Necaxa, the full output of the plants is available throughout the year. The most important of the dams is the Necaxa, which is 190 feet high, being the highest earthen dam in the world. It is 1,000 feet wide at the base, and a quarter of a mile across at the crest. When entirely completed it will be impound 1,590,000,000 cubic feet of water. It will give some idea of the value of every cubic foot of water when it is understood that one cubic foot per second over the Necaxa Falls now means 100 h.p. on the switchboard, and when the system is completed with two other power houses using the same water, one cubic foot per second will mean approximately 300 h.p. The upper Necaxa Falls are 460 feet high, and the lower falls are 740 feet high. The connected load now on the Necaxa lines is 90,000 kw., and it is planned ultimately to take care of 200,000 h.p. The present generating plant consists of six dynamos, each of 6,000 kw. capacity, driven by impulse turbine wheels, which were originally of, 8,200 h.p., but are now rebuilt for 12,000 h.p. Generators of 12,000 kw. capacity are now being built for the Necaxa system. These machines will be able to develop 15,000 kw. continuously, and will be the largest water-driven generators in the world. There will be four nozzles directing water on the buckets of each of the water wheels driving these generators. The transmission system consists of two separate pole lines, each carrying two three-phase circuits. The standard towers are of steel, and are 50 feet high, with a ground wire installed at the top of each tower, and making an equilateral triangle with the wires of the two power circuits. The high tension voltage of the system is 80,000, carried on 18-inch Thomas pin insulators. A telephone line is strung on the same steel towers, and it is stated that no serious disturbances have yet been attributed to the proximity of the power lines."
"The dissatisfaction with existing relations between the inventor and the patent law has led to the organization of the Inventors' guild, the object of which is stated in its constitution as follows:"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Atlanta Section was held on December 7, 1910. Mr. H. P. Wood abstracted a report issued by the Pennsylvania State College in the form of a bulletin, giving the results of experiments and effects of alternating current waves on the life and efficiency of incandescent lamps. There was considerable discussion in the course of which many points were brought out and new ones suggested. Those taking part in the discussion were: Messrs. A. M. Schoen, E. P. Peck, H. D. Winn, W. R. Collier, and M. E. Bonyun."
"The members of the University of Arkansas Branch met in the engineering hall of the university on November 22, 1910. The principal feature of the meeting was a paper read by Mr. F. S. White giving a description of the Rock Island arsenal, which he visited recently. Mr. White gave a brief history of the place, and described the government works there, giving special attention to the electrical power plant. Professor W. B. Stelzner then gave a brief talk on the method of calculating core losses in a generator."
"Mr. William S. Johnson, Stanford '08, is at home for an extended visit with his parents in St. George, N. B."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment:"
"I. Cause of the Great Dielectric Strength of Air Films on the Surface of a Conductor at High-potential a. By the method that employs a conductor of circular section mounted in the air at the center of a hollow conducting cylinder, the electric stresses at the conductor surface required to start corona were observed and reported to the Institute.∗ These observations are recharted, using kilovolts per inch, in lieu of coulombs per inch-cube, for the stresses, so as to locate the single curve, drawn in Figs. 1a and 1b. These data apply to the normal indoor atmosphere at a temperature of 70 deg. fahr., barometer of 29.5 in. (750 mm.) and an elevation of 850 ft. (259 m.) above sea level. The galvanized sheet iron cylinder was new and clean, 3 ft. (91.4 cm.) long, 15 in. (38 cm.) diameter and open at both ends. Approximate sine-wave, 133-cycle, high-voltage alternating e.m.fs. applied the electric stresses between the conductors and the cylinder. The maximum values of these e.m.fs. were checked by needle spark-gaps. The conductors were clean brass rods for the one quarter inch (6.35 mm.) and larger diameters, and clean copper wires for the smaller diameters. The work was done indoors and at night to facilitate visual observation of the complete corona-start. The size of the room employed was approximately 40 by 40 by 15 ft. (12.2 by 12.2 by 4.5 m.), and the air in it reasonably dust free due to ordinary settling. The ions and radioactivity present in the air were not observed because their existence and importance in corona formation were not understood at the time."
"Somewhat over a year ago, Mr. West then assistant general manager and now general manager of the Central Colorado Power Co. made a careful series of high-voltage line loss, wave-distortion and charging-current tests. He gave the writer copies of the results of these tests at the time they were obtained because of the wish on the part of the latter to make a study of the fundamental principles of their highly interesting characteristics. Mr. West has consented to the publication of the data referred to above in the following charts:"
"A little over a year ago Dr. Steinmetz suggested the construction of an artificial transmission line or “slow-speed conductor” in the Electrical Laboratory at Union College. It was proposed to duplicate or reproduce as nearly as possible the conditions of a high-voltage long-distance transmission line in the laboratory in such a way that the various phenomena connected with a line of this sort might easily be investigated. It was not desired particularly to study the effects of very high voltage but rather to investigate and study the various transient and other phenomena in connection with switching, sudden change of load, etc."
"It is generally admitted that corona losses constitute the most serious objection to the use of higher voltages in transmission lines. For this reason a number of physicists and engineers have devoted and are devoting their attention to the study of corona phenomena. Their investigations can be divided into two classes."
"High temperatures are objectionable in transformers for several reasons. The first of these is their effect on the insulating materials, which are subject to gradual deterioration at temperatures of about 100 deg. cent. and to rapid destruction at temperatures greatly in excess of that figure. A second reason, which is not nearly so important, but nevertheless a valid objection, is their effect upon copper loss, which increases about 10 per cent with an increase of 25 deg. cent. in the temperature. Another reason, with oil-insulated transformers, lies in the effect of high temperatures upon some oils, in the deposition of solid hydrocarbons. This forms a coating on the surface of the coils and core, and clogs the ducts, thus increasing the temperature in the windings. The temperature at which this process begins depends upon the character of the oil used. A fourth objection to high temperatures existed formerly in the aging effect of temperatures exceeding about 70 deg. cent. upon the iron used in the core, thus increasing the core loss. This objection does not exist in connection with the present improved steel, which is non-aging."
"It is my intention to bring before the Institute as briefly as may be, the apparent changes in general direction of curves required for predetermining core losses of apparatus, especially transformers, in which silicon steel is used."
"One of the most important problems confronting a designing engineer is the compromise between the design which, in his opinion, is best but too expensive for competition, and the design which can be built to barely meet guarantees and which can be sold for the lowest possible price. The designing engineer is at times compelled to cater to the idiosyncrasies of certain customers, whose special requirements, experience has proved, are unnecessary and detrimental to good construction, but which will be furnished by competitors who are less conscientious in this respect."
"The two hundred and fifty-ninth meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West 39th Street, New. York City, on Friday evening, March 10, 1911, with the coöperation of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. The meeting will be under the auspices of the Institute's Committee on Industrial Power; Mr. Norman T. Wilcox, chairman. The following papers will be presented: “Comments on Fixed Costs in Industrial Power Plants”, by John C. Parker, of the Rochester Railway and Light Company, Rochester, N. Y.; and “The Cost of Industrial Power”, by Mr. A. E. Hibner, of the Toronto Electric Light Company, Toronto, Ont."
"The Pittsfield-Schenectady Mid-Year Convention, February 14, 15 and 16 was a genuine success both in local and general attendance, and every detail of the program was carried through to the satisfaction of all. The papers and discussions were of unusual interest, and the time required for presentation by the authors was reduced to the minimum, thus permitting ample opportunity for discussion in most cases. The attendance at Schenectady was 350, and at Pittsfield 150. This was a duplication to the extent of about 100 who went from Schenectady to Pittsfield and back on Wednesday. About 75 members were present from various distant points and the opening session Tuesday afternoon was well attended. Past-president Charles F. Scott was invited by President Jackson to open the convention and he very effectively called to the attention of the audience the remarkable growth of the Institute, and its successful development as a national organization through the activities of the Sections and Branches, as well as the meetings and conventions, which were now being organized in various parts of the country in addition to the regular monthly meetings in New York and the Annual Convention."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Friday, February 10, 1911. The directors present were: President Dugald C. Jackson, Boston, Mass.; Past-President Lewis B. Stillwell, New York; Managers, W. G. Carlton, New York, Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y., A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., W. S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., H. H. Norris, Ithaca, N. Y., H. H. Barnes, Jr., New York, R. G. Black, Toronto, Ont.; Treasurer, George A. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J.; and Secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"The first attempt of the French engineers to construct a canal across Panama was without careful survey and no thought of sanitation. A story illustrating the unsanitary conditions existing at that time is as follows: An engineer was sent by his chief to investigate certain work and was to report the next morning. He did not report at the appointed time, and on inquiry it was found that he had already been buried two hours. The second attempt of the French was made in 1894. Careful surveys were made and work started, but dishonesty, combined with the deadly work of the mosquitoes, seems to have been the cause of failure. The engineers of the United States Government carefully surveyed 13 different routes before the present route was chosen, the choice being greatly affected by the position of the Chagres River and the Panama Railroad. The Chagres River has very large floods at times, and these would interfere with the operation of the canal. By means of the Gatun dams, the river is made to form a large lake, this lake will be part of the canal water course, thus saving considerable excavating. The maximum flow of the Chagres River for 36 hours would only raise the level of the lake one foot. The canal is 40 miles from shore to shore, with the Atlantic end west of the Pacific end. At the widest part it is about 1,000 feet in width, and about 300 at the narrowest. The level of the canal is 85 feet above the sea, with three locks at each end to raise the ships entering and to lower those leaving. The entire work at present is under Col. Goethals. He has divided it into three parts, two of which at the Atlantic end are in charge of army officers, and one at the Pacific end, in charge of civilians. Very little electrical apparatus is being used at present, the work being started with too much haste to allow time for its installation. But later, the operation of all valves and gates, each of which weighs 750 tons, will be by means of electric motors. The amount of work in the Culebra cut is prodigious. At this point the canal will be 534 feet deep. Steam shovels taking two cubic yards of earth at each bite, and from 15 to 20 bites a minute, keep a continuous stream of loaded cars moving out of the cut. The most important department is the Sanitary Commission. The first work of the commission was to clear, pave, and furnish with pure water, the cities in which the workmen must live. When this was done, the mosquitoes had to be eliminated. Men are kept busy squirting oil on the marshes and water holes to prevent the breeding of this pest, as a precautionary measure against yellow fever."
"In a recent note published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society (B. 82, 557) Professor S. P. Thompson describes a simple experiment by which an influence of the magnetic field on visual perception has been detected. The subject's head was placed inside a coil which carried an alternating current and the result described is the perception of a sensation of light even with the eyes closed. It is also stated that this apparent light flickers."
"As the propriety of using the terms “decelerate” and “deceleration” has been challenged in the Proceedings, and as I have used these terms to a considerable extent for some years, a defense of their legitimacy appears appropriate."
"It has been predicted that the scientist of the future would necessarily be forced to become a narrow specialist on account of the great volume of accumulated information on a multiplicity of subjects. It seems, however, that this tendency to narrowness will be fully compensated by an opposite one in the form of general or universal laws which apply with equal force to many or all branches of science. Such universal laws might make it possible for even a mediocre mind of the future to comprehend as easily as a brilliant mind of the present, branches as widely separated as chemistry and psychology."
"To the Board of Trustees, United engineering society."
"The Atlanta Section held its regular meeting on February 1, 1911. The program consisted of a paper by Mr. A. M. Schoen, on “Electrolysis.” Mr. Schoen was employed some years ago by the City of Richmond, Va., to make a study of the electrolytic action which was attacking the water pipes of that city. There were at that time two competing electric railway companies operating in Richmond. Mr. Schoen made a complete electrolytic survey of the region and his investigation showed that great damage was being done to the water system by current leakage from the tracks of one of the railway companies. Mr. Schoen's treatment of the subject was therefore based on the practical side of electrolysis. The paper was received with much favor and considerable discussion followed. Those taking part were: Messrs. H. P. Wood, G. S. Yundt, H. M. Keys, A. W. Wilder, E. P. Peck, J. N. Eley, M. E. Bonyun, and Professor Kell. Twenty-five members and visitors were present."
"Mr. Frank Koester, consulting engineer, has opened an office at 115 Broadway, New York."
"MR. ODDGEIR STEPHENSEN, electrical engineer with the Wagner Electric Manufacturing Company, St. Louis, Mo., and Secretary of the St. Louis Section of the A.I.E.E., died in St, Luke's Hospital, St. Louis, on Wednesday morning, February 1, 1911, of a complication of diseases. Mr. Stephensen was born in Copenhagen, Denmark, on February 9, 1880. He graduated from the University of Copenhagen with the degree of B.A. in 1899. His first employment was as apprentice to Ludvig Lund, of Copenhagen, manufacturer of dynamos, motors, and electrical apparatus and instruments. He left Copenhagen in 1902 and came to the United States, entering the cable testing department of the Western Electric Company at Chieago, with which company he was connected until November, 1904, when he became field draftsman for the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company. Early in 1906 he went with the Wagner Electric Manufacturing Company as electrical engineer. Mr. Stephensen represented the Institute at the Congress of International Association for Testing Materials held in Copenhagen in September 1909. He was also active in connection with the work of the Institute's local organizations, having been associated with the Urbana Section, and later as Secretary of the St. Louis Section. He was elected an Associate on April 27, 1906."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"A review of some of the principal headings with an occasional comment will give a rapid survey of the scope of this paper. The conditions of single grounds occupy most of the treatment, although incidentally the subject of short circuits and high frequency oscillations are brought in briefly where they are particularly pertinent. The general principles of the arcing ground suppressor are described. Its mechanical features, consisting of an oil switch, electrostatic or electromagnetic selective relay, and safety auxiliary devices, are treated in detail. Then follows a discussion of the security with a metallic ground and the practical tests of the arcing ground suppressor. The electrostatic capacities of the line wires are so changed by the accidental grounds, that considerable space is given to this subject under the three heads of analogy, physical theory, and mathematical solutions. This subject has a strong bearing on the design of the suppressor but has only a convincing and theoretical connection with the use of it. In connection with the arcs on lines, tests are given of arc length, voltage, and currents. These are illustrated by simultaneous photographs of arcs on horns and oscillograms with curves of subsequently calculated lengths, voltages, and currents."
"The Southern Power Company experiences every year during the lightning season frequent disturbances and interruptions due to the lightning starting an arc over the insulator to the pin, this arc often breaking the insulators, or sometimes even burning off the line. With the object of extinguishing this arc before it has time to do any damage, an automatic insulator protector has been installed on the 44,000-volt system at the Catawba power house."
"This paper is confined to a presentation of the relative merits of the most commonly used designs of tanks for self-cooled transformers. However, since any tank, in addition to dissipating the heat, must fulfill the following requirements, no consideration has been given to discussion of impractical constructions."
"Certain features of the cost of power generation in small plants seem to be the subject of such varying ideas that it has been thought worth while to indicate a few of these features with the hope that a discussion of them may bring about a greater consistency of view among the members of the profession. The features presented in this paper will for the most part be confined to “fixed costs,” comprehending thereunder those costs which are not closely a function of the energy output. While the latter elements of cost are more or less obvious during plant operation, the fixed costs are capable of but little modification or correction after a plant has been installed, and being a matter of economic rather than of technical judgment, and hence not always attracting the attention of engineers who may not have specialized in economic essentials, it is at once desirable that attention be called to them, and that they be given considerable weight during plant layout. The writer would call particular attention to the marginal principal discussed in the latter part of this paper as being one of critical importance, and one of those least commonly weighed by the profession."
"It is hardly necessary to call attention to the rapidly increasing importance of industrial engineering subjects, a condition which has made possible the presentation of a paper on such a heretofore relatively unimportant subject as the cost of industrial power. To-day one can scarcely pick up a technical magazine without finding some article on an industrial engineering subject. The comparatively recent growth of this activity is evidenced to some extent by the fact that the. Industrial Power Committee of the A.I.E.E. has been in existence only three years."
"Electrical machinery and apparatus have become so essential to any engineering project that the establishment of international agreement as to the exact meaning of the terms, the rating and the general methods of testing electrical machinery are becoming of world-wide importance."
"A special meeting of the Board of Directors of the A.I.E.E., was held at the Institute headquarters, 33 West 39th St., New York, on Tuesday, August 22, 1911. The following Directors were present: Gano Dunn, Ampere, N. J.; H. W. Buck, New York City; P. H. Thomas, New York City; D. B. Rushmore, Schenectady, N. Y.; W. G. Carlton, New York City; Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y.; A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee; Henry H. Norris, Ithaca, N. Y.; S. D. Sprong, New York City; H. H. Bnrnes, Jr., New York City; W. S. Rugg, New York City; N. W. Storcr, Pittsburgh; W. S. Lee, Charlotte, N. C; Farley Osgood, Newark, N. J.; G. A. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J."
"On Thursday evening, June 29, during the convention of the Institute at Chicago, Mr. H. M. Byllesby, chairman of the entertainment committee, gave a dinner to 60 representative capitalists, men of affairs, publishers, and officers and members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, in expressing a hospitable welcome to Chicago. The speeches at this dinner bore upon important industrial and conservation questions, in which the Institute has a deep interest. They have been published in a particularly attractive typographical form and presented as souvenirs to the guests at the dinner. Space will not permit the reprinting of the brochure in full, but it is thought the membership may be interested in the introductory address of Mr. Byllesby, and the replies of President Jackson and President-Elect Dunn."
"MR. H. E. MURPHY has left the Allis-Chalmers Company and entered the employ of the Stone and Webster Engineering Corporation as construction engineer."
"WILLIAM DUNLAP SARGENT, of 51 Remsen Street, Brooklyn, N. Y., died on Thursday, August 10, 1911, at his country home in Somerset, Pa. Mr. Sargent was born in Ligonier, Westmoreland County, Pa., on July 2, 1845. He was educated in the public schools of Harrisburg, Pa. In 1861 he entered the service of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company as telegraph operator. Later he served in the United States Military Telegraph Corps at General Burnside's Cincinnati headquarters, and when the war was over he went back to Harrisburg and became manager of the Western Union office there. He was in charge of the telegraph service at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia and was present when Alexander Graham Bell exhibited his first telephone there. Mr. Sargent then became interested in the telephone and entered the business with Thomas E. Cornish of the Bell Telephone Company, of Philadelphia, as general superintendent and general manager. Later he went to Brooklyn and became vice-president and general manager of the New York and New Jersey Telephone Company, and while there was chosen to take charge of its exhibit at the Paris Exhibition in 1889. In 1885 he developed, in connection with John A. Barrett, the dry core paper cable in a continuous lead covering, the cable which is now in standard use in the telephone business. He was very active, also, in the longdistance work of the telephone officials of early days, and is recognized as one of the first and ablest of the pioneers in the telephone field. Mr. Sargent was a director of the National City Bank of Brooklyn and of the Brooklyn Public Library. He was a Member of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the Brooklyn Institute, the Pennsylvania Society, the New England Society and the Long Island Historical Society. The remains were taken to Fresh Pond, Long Island, and cremated. Mr. Sargent is survived by a widow and three children."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"In approaching this highly involved subject, I desire to call your attention to the wonderful achievements of our profession. Broadly, our profession is little more than thirty years old. It is true that telegraphy in its various applications and other similar branches had reached a great development at the date I consider as having been that of the birth of the electrical engineering profession in its modern sense. It is also true that the telephone at that time had come into existence as an achieved invention, but it was then purely an invention and lacking in the vast refinements and additions which have made it the huge engine of commerce and intimate feature of our modern life today. In the brief period of from thirty to thirty-four years, the profession of electrical engineering as applied to the generation, the transportation and the utilization of large quantities of electricity has come into existence."
"The preparation of engineering specifications is a matter which the engineering graduate is likely to meet early in his experience. Therefore a knowledge of the subject and its relation to business law is important. Yet there is probably no subject which appeals less to the interest of the undergraduate student, or is more generally regarded as dry and tiresome. But modern theories of engineering education recognize clearly that a purely technical preparation cannot fit the engineer for the greatest sphere of usefulness, or the one which he should properly occupy."
"In the usual theory of commutation it is considered that, when the current in a coil is commutated or reversed, the local magnetic flux due to the current reverses also, and in so doing sets up an e.m.f. in the coil which opposes the reversal. This is the so-called reactance voltage referred to in commutation problems. The fact that two or more coils may be undergoing commutation at the same time involves consideration of mutual as well as self-induction. The relation of the mutual to the self-induction, the probable value of each, etc., lead to such mathematical complication in the analysis of the problem, that empirical methods have become the usual practice in dealing with commutation. The usual analytical methods do not permit a ready or easy physical conception of what actually takes place. One must think in formulas rather than in the phenomena of the commutation itself."
"The Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, for 1911, will be held in Chicago, Ill., on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, June 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30, 1911. The Institute headquarters will be at the New Hotel Sherman, northwest corner of Clark and Randolph streets. There will be a reception on Monday evening, and the technical sessions will open on Tuesday morning. The Convention Committee will have charge of the local arrangements. The members of this committee are as follows: Louis A. Ferguson, Chairman; W. L. Abbott; B. J. Arnold; H. M. Byllesby; W. Lee Campbell; T. P. Gaylord; William B. Jackson; J. W. Johnson; John D. Nies; W. P. Sidley; B. E. Sunny; Fay Woodmansee; P. B. Woodworth; J. G. Wray."
"The ceremonies attending the presentation of the Edison Medal to Mr. Frank Julian Sprague will be held in the auditorium of the Engineers' Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, City on Tuesday evening, May 16, 1911. The program as arranged will include the presentation of the medal and diploma to Mr. Sprague by Professor Dugald C. Jackson, President of the Institute, and a number of addresses will be made indicating the result of Mr. Sprague's work along the lines of electric railway development and the use of electricity in the navy. Among the speakers and subjects will be: “The Development of the Electric Railway”, by W. B. Potter, of the General Electric Company; “Social Results of the Introduction of the Electric Railway”, by F. H. Giddings, professor of sociology at Columbia University; “The Relation of Governmental Control to the Development of Electric Railways and the Electrification of Steam Lines”, by George F. Swain, LL.D., professor of civil engineering at Harvard University. There will also be an address on the subject, “The Results of the Use of Electricity in the Navy”, the speaker to be announced later. The ceremonies will commence promptly at 8:30 p.m. Representatives of the government, state, municipality, national engineering societies and civic organizations will be invited to participate in the presentation. Ladies may be invited to attend this meeting."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at 33 West 39th Street, New York City, on Friday, April 14, 1911. The directors present were: President Dugald C. Jackson, Boston, Mass.; Vice-Presidents Paul M. Lincoln, Pittsburg, Pa., Paul Spencer, Philadelphia, Pa., Morgan Brooks, Urbana, Ill., Percy H. Thomas, New York; Managers W. G. Carlton, New York, A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., W. S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., S. D. Sprong, New York City, R. G. Black, Toronto, Ont.; Treasurer George A. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J.; and Secretary Ralph W. Pope, New York."
"The secretary of agriculture having approved revised regulations applying to appropriation and use of water powers controlled by the federal government, these regulations were incorporated in a new “Use Book” of the federal forest service, issued under date of December 28, 1910. The revised regulations have been carefully and intelligently prepared and are a marked improvement upon those superseded. In a recent letter addressed to the chairman of our conservation committee, the chief engineer of the forest service says: “It is not expected that the regulations will remain unchanged indefinitely, but that new conditions, as they arise, will require to be met, and therefore any suggestions received will be of interest and value for future use”. It is not probable that the regulations as they now stand will be changed in the immediate future, but the conservation committee would be glad to receive from members of the Institute any suggestions or comments which may throw additional light upon this very important subject."
"The principle of the operation of the dielectric flux motor, or the electric field motor, may briefly be explained as follows:"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Atlanta Section was held on March 11, at the residence of Mr. A. M. Schoen, where the members had been invited to meet Mr. Gano Dunn, of Ampere, N. J., who was in Atlanta in attendance at the Southern Commercial Congress. After an informal dinner there was a general discussion of questions relating to the welfare and advancement of the Institute. Among those taking part in the discussion were: Messrs. Gano Dunn A. M. Schoen, H. P. Wood, A. S. Reading, W. H. Collier, J. R. Gordon, H. D. Winn, I. F. McDonnell, and M. E. Bonyun."
"Mr. J. S. Viehe, formerly electrical engineer for the Rockingham Power Company, is now in the engineering department of the Electric Bond and Share Company, 71 Broadway, New York City."
"Mr. John D. Keiley, electrical engineer of the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company, died of pneumonia at his residence, 58 Arthur Street, Yonkers, N. Y., on April 21. The engineering profession thereby lost one of its most intellectual and resourceful leaders; one who has left an enviable record in the pioneer field of railroad electrification."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The use of flywheels to equalize the loads on steam engines, punch presses, rolling mills and other machinery of this class has been known for years but its use in connection with electrical machinery for operating hoists, steel rolls, etc., is comparatively new."
"Electrical transmission of intelligence, so vital to the progress of civilization, has taken a development at present into telephony and telegraphy over metallic wires; and telegraphy, and, to a limited extent, telephony, through the medium of the ether by means of electric waves."
"The theoretical part of polyphase induction motor design has been treated thoroughly, analytically and graphically,∗ and there is very little left for further investigation. In consideration of the great importance of this type of motor very little has been said about the leading points in the practical design."
"While reinforced concrete was coming into general use as a structural material much space in the technical press was given to discussions and reports on the durability of the encased iron. The results from a large number of experiments gave fairly conclusive evidence that under ordinary conditions the iron is protected, and that even if it was rusty when placed in the concrete, it will be free from the oxide after remaining in the concrete for some time. The time test on the durability of practical structures is, of course, the final arbiter, and for each year the increasing data bears out the assumption that properly constructed concrete-steel structures will stand indefinitely."
