"For a considerable time the voltage of long distance transmissions was limited by the line insulator. Until a few years ago, the transmission line insulator was the same pin type as used in telegraph and telephone lines, differing only by its larger size, by the replacement of glass by porcelain, and by the addition of a few more petticoats, but no radical change had occurred, until the limit of this type was reached at 30,000 to 40,000 volts — with a few 60,000 volt lines of questionable reliability."
"The object of this paper is to describe the general characteristics of protective relays necessary for the automatic and selective action of circuit breaking and switching devices connected to electrical distributing systems. It is not my purpose to discuss or advocate any specific type or make of relay, but rather to bring before you the necessary characteristics and present a few recommendations for your consideration in selecting the proper type of relay for any particular service."
"J. Franklin Stevens (by letter): The question of “Central Station Generation of Power at Mining Centers” as presented by Mr. Hunter deserves more than passing comment. It treats of a matter of great economic interest which has long been neglected and, possibly, the reason therefor is that it presents no novel or difficult problems in an engineering sense. There are, however, other questions involved which possess great interest to engineers and capitalists."
"The members of the Panama Canal Trip, leaving on the United Fruit Company's steamship “Almirante” from New York, assembled on board shortly before noon on January 17, 1912, and were speeded on their journey by many regretful friends. Leaving the pier about one p.m., the ship made its way down the bay to the open ocean amid ice floes, slowly leaving behind the freezing weather of New York City."
"As previously announced, the Pacific Coast meeting of the Institute will take place at Portland, Oregon, April 16–20, 1912. The committee as appointed by President Dunn, which will have charge of the details of the meeting, is as follows:"
"The details of the Pittsburgh meeting of the Institute, April 25–27, 1912, are now practically completed."
"The arrangements of the Meetings and Papers Committee for holding the Annual Convention of the Institute in Boston, June 24th to 28th, were confirmed by the Board of Directors at its last meeting, and President Dunn announced the appointment of the following Convention Committee:"
"The following members of the Board were present: President Gano Dunn, New York; Past President Dugald C. Jackson, Boston, Mass; Vice-Presidents Percy H. Thomas and W. G. Carlton, New York; David B. Rushmore and Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y.; Managers A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis.; William S. Murray, New Haven, Conn.; Henry H. Norris, Ithaca, N. Y.; Severn D. Sprong, Brooklyn, N. Y.; H. H. Barnes, Jr., and Walter S. Rugg, New York; F. S. Hunting, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Farley Osgood, Newark, N. J.; Treasurer George A. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J.; and Secretary F. L. Hutchinson, New York. Monthly bills of $8,559.42 were approved for payment."
"Proposed Amendment for Additional Grade of Membership To the members of the A. I. E. E. In connection with the ballots that have just been sent to the membership for voting on the constitutional amendments proposing to add an additional degree of membership to our present schedule, I should like to call the attention of the members to some of the difficulties that the Committee on Additional Grade of Membership found in its work."
"To the Board of Directors, American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Gentlemen: This Committee has counted and canvassed, in accordance with Article VI of the Constitution, the nomination ballots received for officers of the Institute, for 1912–1913. The result is as follows:"
"To the Board of Directors, A.I.E.E. Gentlemen: In accordance with the instructions of the Board of Directors, at the meeting of February ninth, the Committee on Code of Principles of Professional Conduct herewith reports its final draft for the action of the Board (See page 447, Section II). This draft, as provided for by the Board, embodies a number of modifications suggested since the last meeting, and, while further changes could undoubtedly be made, the committee feels the present draft is in a form that will meet the approval of the membership and will reflect credit upon the Institute."
"The annual banquet of the Pittsburgh Section of the A.I.E.E, held Saturday evening, February 17, in the large banquet hall of the Fort Pitt Hotel, was the largest and most successful ever held by this organization, over 400 members and their friends being present."
"Treasurer's Report To the Board of Trustees, United Engineering Society. I beg to submit herewith the report of your Treasurer as of December 31, 1911."
"Alling, Sydney, Engineering Department, Rochester Railway & Light Co.; res., 44 Vick Pk., B., Rochester, N. Y."
"Baltimore An informal dinner attended by 28 members of the Baltimore Section was held at the Hotel Raleigh on the evening of March 1. Professor J. B. Whitehead presided. No formal papers were presented. The proposed amendments to the Constitution were discussed, and met with general approval."
"Mr. Irving W. Phillips has been transferred from the Boston office to the Keokuk, Iowa, office of the Stone and Webster Engineering Corporation."
"Mr. Junzo Itoh, of Takata and Company, died on January 14, 1912, in Tokio, Japan, of typhoid fever."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"General Description The Algoma Steel Company of Sault Ste. Marie, Ont., Canada, has recently put into operation an electric reversing mill equipment operating the blooming mill. The mill is required to roll 75 tons per hour from ingots 20 in. (50 cm.) by 20 in. (50 cm.) into billets 8 in. (20 cm.) by 8 in. (20 cm.) in 15 passes."
"The following treatment of the starting of synchronous motors is intended to apply to polyphase motors and has been worked out for those of the revolving field type, but can doubtless be so modified as to apply to motors of the revolving armature type as well. The analytical treatment of the subject applies to motors with definite pole construction. The writer has not investigated in any way starting of motors of the round rotor type, such as are used in the construction of large high-speed turbo-generators."
"Introduction One of the most interesting problems with which the engineer of a company utilizing water power has to deal is the selection of the hydraulic equipment for his plant."
"The first time I made the trip through the Spokane Valley was on a hot July afternoon nearly twelve years ago. Most of it was dry pasture land, but here and there were fields of grain, many of them already cut, bound and shocked. This seemed unusual to me for that time of the year, for in my own neighborhood, some 80 miles (128 km.) south of this, the grain would not be ready to cut for some four weeks yet. Under these conditions it looked quite dry, parched and dusty. Houses were few and far between, and the bright sun shining on the whiteness of dry grass and stubble made the tree-covered hills at each side of the valley look far more inviting."
"In October, 1908, the Portland Railway, Light & Power Co., after serious consideration of the relative merits of the alternating current and direct current underground distribution, adopted plans for the construction of a complete system of underground conduits and cables within certain limits, which included the principal business section of the city of Portland. The Edison three-wire, 120/240-volt system was adopted, with the exception of a 600-volt distribution system in some sections of the city where the company had at that time heavy 600-volt customers, for both power and light throughout."
"In most cities where electric energy is distributed underground, particularly in congested sections, the Edison three-wire, 200-volt direct-current system is used."
"A few years ago, the majority, in fact a very large majority, of those interested in the technical aspect of the telephone, considered what is now well known as the automatic telephone, impracticable for central office service, even in single office districts. This erroneous idea has long since been dispelled by the installation and subsequent satisfactory operation of numerous extensive automatic systems, many of which each include a number of large central offices. Following the satisfactory development of the central office, it was soon realized that a great saving could be made in the exterior cable plant, if small unattended or partially attended sub-offices, as they are now called, could be built, to give efficient and economical service. It will suffice here to say that the experiment was tried with the result that the sub-office is now considered a necessary adjunct to the automatic central office. The purpose of this paper, is to show that the unattended sub-office is by no means the limit of sub-division and that such sub-division has now been successfully extended to include two somewhat distinct types of private branch exchanges, one adapted to meet the requirements of apartment houses and family hotels and the other the more exacting requirements of all classes of commercial organizations and business houses. The most noticeable difference between the two is that the former is arranged, apart from some minor features, to give “in” and “out” exchange service only, while the latter is arranged to give “local inter-communication” as well. The automatic system has not as yet been applied to the larger commercial hotels where the total annual cost of the equipment involved is great in comparison with the average revenue derived per telephone. At the present time, the first cost of automatic apparatus prohibits its general use in such places."
"The twenty-ninth Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Boston, June 24 to 28, 1912."
"The following members of the Board were present at the meeting: President Gano Dunn, New York; Vice-Presidents Percy H. Thomas and W. G. Carlton, New York; Managers, A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., W. S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., S. D. Sprong, W. S. Rugg, and Charles E. Scribner, New York; N. W. Storer, Pittsburgh, Pa., and Farley Osgood, Newark, N. J.; Treasurer George A. Hamilton, and Secretary F. L. Hutchinson."
"Dedicated to the Discussion of Institute Affairs Proposed Plan for Nomination and Election of Institute Officers The following report of a committee of the St. Louis Section was considered at the meeting of the Board of Directors held May 21, 1912 and was ordered published in the Proceedings, so that the subject may be fully discussed at the Boston Convention."
"The Annual Meeting of the A. I. E. E. was held at the Engineers Building, New York, Tuesday, May 21, 1912."
"The committee appointed by President Dunn in March to collect funds for the Joubert memorial recently held a meeting for the purpose of formulating a plan for carrying on its work. The chairman of the committee, Mr. C. O. Mailloux, during his recent visit to Paris attended a meeting of the French Committee, which has been formed for the same purpose, and he also conferred while in London with the President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, who has promised to take up the matter and appoint a similar committee. Similar committees will also be formed in Italy, Belgium and other countries. The American Committee will be considerably enlarged, and its appeal to members for subscriptions will be issued simultaneously with similar appeals in the other countries."
"As stated elsewhere in this issue, the constitutional amendments providing for three grades of membership, in place of the present two grades, were adopted by vote of the membership at the annual meeting of the Institute held May 21, 1912. These amendments go into effect June 21, 1912. The provisions of the amended Constitution providing for the transfer of present Associates and Members to the grades of Member and Fellow respectively, are as follows:"
"The 271st meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers convened at 11:00 a.m., April 16, 1912, at Portland, Oregon, with Mr. F. D. Weber, chairman of the Portland Section, in the chair."
"The two hundred and seventy-second meeting of the Institute, at Pittsburgh, held under the auspices of the Industrial Power Committee in conjunction with the Association of Iron and Steel Electrical Engineers, was called to order in the Fort Pitt Hotel, at 11:15 a.m. April 25, by Mr. K. C. Randall, chairman of the Pittsburgh Section of the A. I. E. E. Mr. Randall introduced President Gano Dunn."
"The 273rd meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held under the auspices of the Schenectady Section at the Mohawk Golf Club, Schenectady, May 17, 1912."
"Dear Sir: — This committee has carefully canvassed the ballots cast for officers for the year 1912–1913. The result is as follows:"
"On the invitation of President Dunn, the Board of Directors of the Institute and the chairmen of the various committees attended a dinner at the University Club on the evening of May 20, 1912, to meet the Past-Presidents. The following were present:"
"The following Associates were transferred to the grade of Member in the Institute at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on May 21, 1912."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The subject of frequency for commercial power and lighting systems, far from being settled, is discussed again with every new installation. Frequency affects the operating characteristics of circuits and apparatus, and also their cost."
"It is the purpose of this paper to describe in detail a series of measurements of voltage and current over an artificial power-transmission line 1040 km. (646.2 miles) in length. Although it is readily possible to compute the behavior of such a length of line, when the linear constants are given; yet this is the first time, so far as the writers are aware, that actual observations have been forthcoming on a laboratory model power-transmission line of more than about 200 km. (130 miles) in length.1"
"The two earlier papers of this series discussed more particularly the conditions governing the start of the high voltage corona. This line of investigation is continued to some extent in the present paper. In addition some interesting observations of the properties of the full-formed corona itself are recorded."
"Tungsten does not occur as such in nature; but in the form of compounds it is pretty well distributed. The most important ores are sheelite or calcium tungstate and wolframite or iron-manganese tungstate. The principal source of the ore at this time in this country is Boulder County, Colorado."
"There has been so much written about the electric furnace since it entered into regular commercial use about 20 years ago that the presentation of a paper on the subject treating it in a general way is not apt to be interesting. But a promise to attempt the preparation of such a paper having been given, it was thought that there might be some interest attaching to a review of the development of some furnaces during the past 30 years. Moreover, it is often useful to look back over ground that has been covered in order to obtain suggestions as to the best direction to be taken in attempting further advances."
"Modern tendencies are toward greater efficiency, in machinery as also in a more scientific management and in many other directions involving the saving of useless labor or wasted efforts, as exemplified for instance in simplified spelling the use of abbreviations, the Esperanto language, etc. Obsolete, old-fashioned and inefficient machinery is willingly discarded for that which is more efficient; obsolete methods of management are discarded for better ones; economy in the physical labor of man is carefully studied and practiced; yet in the very process which every engineer himself uses and which is more personal to him than any other, namely, the process of doing his mental work, the average engineer completely ignores the adoption of more efficient methods even when they are within his reach. In our numerous daily calculations we still adhere with astonishing tenacity to our antiquated, cumbersome, irrational, time robbing, inherited systems of measures, although we have within reach systems which are far more efficient in the economy of mental energy."
"This paper is confined to demonstrating the existence of a characteristic of alternators provisionally named the transient impedance and to investigating the influence of this characteristic on a. The maximum and minimum currents flowing through a 12,000-kw turbo-alternator with and without external reactance coils, under various short circuit conditions. b. The maximum and minimum currents into different classes of faults from a system operating several such units in parallel. c. The maximum cross currents obtainable when paralleling a unit to the system considered in (b), and, d. The torque developed by the maximum currents of (a) and (b)."
"The purpose of this article is to publish a few observations made in the research laboratory on some phenomena in vacua, as they may possibly be of interest to others who are working in the field of evacuated apparatus."
"It is well known that, in time of war, the army has considerable difficulty in keeping up its overland telegraph lines, and especially so if these lines are operated on the ordinary Morse system and with wet cells. In actual warfare, in the field, all impedimenta must be reduced to a minimum, and consist of as little perishable material as possible. If, for example, it is desired to operate a closed circuit line of say 300 miles in length about 150 gravity cells would be required, and if the line were to be operated on open circuit it would require about 100 dry cells per station. On the other hand induction telegraphy, so called, allows such a line to be successfully operated with from four to six dry cells per station. This fact and other features of simplicity which it possesses explains the existence of army field induction telegraphy."
"From time to time those responsible for the operation of electrical systems have displayed a disposition to place a definite limit upon the size of motors which they will allow upon their circuits. This tendency seems to be more pronounced in alternating-current than in direct-current systems, but is observable in both. Moreover, in alternating-current systems the tendency is not confined to central stations for city supply, but is spreading to the larger transmission systems that deal in wholesale power."
"The requirements of the station engineer, with regard to the operating characteristics of large alternators, have materially changed during the last few years, concurrently with the rapid increase of size, measured in kw., of the individual power houses and of the individual generating units. Some characteristics which ten years ago were striven for, are now avoided and considered actually detrimental."
"This paper is not intended to be a theoretical discussion of the principles of unipolar machines; neither is it a purely descriptive article. It is rather a record of engineering experiences obtained, and difficulties overcome, in the practical development of a large machine of the unipolar type. For those who are interested in the designs and development of electrical machinery there may be many points of very considerable interest in this record. Some of the conditions of operation, with their attendant difficulties, proved to be so unusual that it is believed that a straightforward story of these troubles, and the methods for correcting them, will be of some value as a published record."
"The electrolytic corrosion of iron when exposed to an electric current leaving the iron in damp soil has already received a great deal of attention and is a matter of very great practical importance. Stray currents from direct-current electric railway systems employing the running tracks as return conductors frequently reach underground piping systems and cause corrosion by electrolysis. There has been some question as to whether or not the weight of iron oxidized or destroyed under the conditions existing on underground structures is equal to that calculated from Faraday's law, on the basis of 1.044 grams of iron destroyed by one ampere-hour, and whether various kinds of iron are corroded to the same extent with the same amount of current leaving the iron to pass to damp soil; and certain classes of iron have been claimed to resist electrolytic corrosion. Some have also believed that with very low current densities the amount of corrosion produced is less than the theoretical amount."
"In a previous∗ paper the author has shown that the “convection” of heat from hot wires in a gas consists essentially of conduction through a film of relatively stationary gas around the wire. From this theory the following method was derived for calculating the power necessary to maintain a wire at any given temperature."
"History Investigations of the vibrations of telephone diaphragms have been published by Rayleigh,1 Wien,2 Kempf-Hartmann,3 Taylor4, Gati5 and others. Rayleigh and Wien measured the value of the simple harmonic current which would just produce an audible tone in the receiver at different frequencies. They found that at certain frequencies the current required was a minimum, and Wien concluded that these minima showed the existence of natural vibrations of the diaphragm, but realized that the variation in sensibility of the ear with pitch played possibly a larger part in the difference of current required at different frequencies than the natural vibrations themselves."
"A careful examination of the various attributes of the induction generator discloses its appropriateness for certain classes of work. It is the purpose of this paper to describe these attributes and to endeavor to deduce therefrom the correct economic field for such machines."
"In the vibration galvanometer we have a type of synchronous motor which is distinctly different from all the ordinary types of dynamo electric machines. Further it does not have any of the characteristics of any of the ordinary galvanometers and except for the fact that it is used in the detection or measurement of small currents and voltages, it should not be called a galvanometer. In galvanometers, except when used in the measurement of transient currents or quantity of electricity, the moving system is displaced until we have an equality of static couples acting on it. In the vibration galvanometer the equilibrium condition is an equality between integral values of the product of the current and generated voltage and the mechanical power dissipated in various ways as in ordinary electric motors when operated without a load. It therefore behaves more like an electric motor than like a galvanometer. Further, since it is used only with alternating currents and operates in synchronism with the current it must necessarily have some of the characteristics of a synchronous motor. As a motor the efficiency of conversion was found in a particular case to be as high as 97½ per cent while the power required to maintain an easily discernable amplitude of vibration was of the order of 10−11 watts. One of the large turbo-generators would therefore furnish the power necessary to operate a thousand-million-billion such machines."
"Part I of this paper∗ presented at the A. I. E. E. Annual Convention last June gave the results and discussion of extensive investigations of corona formation and loss. These investigations consist of power measurements on a short transmission line under all of the variable conditions of spacing, size of conductor, storms, etc., met with in practise, supplemented with extensive laboratory investigations."
"The practise of illuminating engineering as a separate profession is a recent development of applied science. So short a time ago as 15 years there was little if any room or need for such work, and the “art of illumination” was largely a matter of guess work, precedent, and simple attempts to produce artificial light with little attention given to its distribution from the standpoint of economy as that word is understood today."
"The measurement of stray electric currents flowing through buried conductors, such as pipes, and generally originating from an electric railroad or other grounded system of electric distribution, is attended with various difficulties, particularly in the determination of the current which enters or leaves the underground pipe through the surrounding earth, and as it is the current which leaves a pipe in this way that corrodes it electrolytically it becomes important to be able to locate and measure that current. Another important measurement is to identify the original source of the stray current."
"The unique arrangement of standard instruments described in this paper was made for the purpose of transmitting and reproducing at a distance a direct electrical measurement, the distance in point being 35 miles (56 km.), the measurement the indicated kilowatts input to a 12,000-volt, 60-cycle, three-phase transmission line, and the medium of transmission a telephone line owned by the local telephone company but used as a private line by the central station companies."
"The question of properly metering electrical energy when it is used in the form of high values of direct current is one that can profitably be discussed at this meeting. The following brief paper is intended as a summary, for the purpose of discussion, of various methods now being used, with suggestions for the development of apparatus that would eliminate certain disadvantages and errors now encountered."
"Theory of Instrument To obtain the same current distribution for both alternating and direct current it is usual to strand the windings of the field coils of electrodynamometers, and the strands should also be thoroughly mixed so that all shall have the same effective resistance and inductance. For very heavy currents this becomes a matter of extreme difficulty."
"Alternating-current ammeters of the dynamometer type when used for measuring small currents are usually connected so that the moving coil is in series with the stationary or field coils."
"Perhaps there is no kind of testing for commercial results that requires more accurate electrical measurements than the testing of incandescent lamps. All incandescent lamps are very sensitive to changes in the electrical conditions of the circuit. A change of 1 per cent in pressure brings about a change of 5.7 per cent in luminous intensity for carbon lamps and 3.7 per cent for tungsten filament lamps. There is a corresponding change in the life, but of a magnitude four to five times as great."
"A good deal has been written concerning the determination of the ratio and phase angle of instrument transformers, and several methods are now available which are of good accuracy. Also, there is considerable matter available regarding the design of such transformers, with reference to the production of satisfactory ratio and phase angle characteristics. Comparatively little has appeared, however, concerning the effect of ratio and phase angle upon the accuracy of watt-hour meters."
"The modern switchboard, controlling as it does large amounts of power, and often situated where space is at a premium, demands a different type of switchboard instrument from that to be found on older switchboards. Moreover, modern generating equipments, generally turbine driven, have resulted in a readjustment of the comparative importance of the different kind of electrical errors to which indicating meters are subject. not example, the frequency of a modern system does not usually vary more than one or two cycles from the normal speed, and therefore frequency characteristics are less important whereas formerly this was one of the great sources of error. Again, due to operation with larger currents or higher potentials, the external magnetic or electrostatic field effects are greatly increased."
"In these days of large units and stupendous engineering undertakings one is apt to overlook the problems involved in assigning to little things an accurate valuation."
"In the use of the balance method of determining the ratio of the primary and secondary voltages of potential transformers, certain variations in the result were noted which appeared to be dependent on the relation of the resistance of the detector (RD in Fig. 1) to the balance resistance R1 and R2. A short theoretical investigation and a few tests were made to determine the cause and the order of magnitude of the errors involved, and to ascertain safe limits of operation. As the measurement of the detector voltage has frequently been suggested as a means of determining phase angle between voltages, the relation of the detector resistance to this measurement was also considered."
"The breakdown strength of insulating materials is measured by the maximum voltage which they will withstand under given conditions. Tests are ordinarily made on alternating voltages, and the measurement of the maximum voltage is effected by indirect rather than direct means; that is, by measuring the virtual value of the voltage on either the primary or the secondary of the transformer and arriving at the maximum value by using a measured or assumed value of the peak-factor∗ of the wave. It is unfortunately true that this peak-factor is more often assumed than measured, and no doubt many tests of dielectric strength are inaccurate because of unsuspected changes in the wave-form produced by conditions of the test. Only in the spark-gap has an apparatus been available whereby a measure of the actual maximum value of the high voltage could be obtained. The spark-gap is however, a most uncertain piece of apparatus, the vagaries in the behavior of which have by no means been accounted for. Installed according to the Standardization Rules of the Institute, a spark-gap for measuring 250,000 volts requires a space such that no “extraneous” body comes nearer than 4 ft. 3 in. (129.4 cm.); that is, a clear space or room 8½ by 8½ by 8½ feet (259 cm.) is required. In view of this requirement, the spark-gap is a very large and cumbersome, as well as uncertain and unsatisfactory apparatus."
"In this paper we shall point out the special field for use of hot wire instruments, and support our statements by facts and figures drawn from long association with this particular type of instrument."
"Incandescent lamps have long been used as resistances in electrical measurements, but they have not been used over nearly as wide a range and variety of work as they might be. The reason for this is probably that information as to the resistance values and characteristics is not generally available and for that reason the proper lamps can not be easily selected. It is the purpose of this paper to emphasize the value of incandescent lamps as resistances, to give some information regarding the resistance characteristics, ranges of resistance and current carrying capacities available, and such other information as will assist one in the selection of the proper lamps for any particular purpose."
"The object of this device is to supply a method for accurately measuring the frequency of a circuit, to give a large scale deflection on the instrument for a small percentage change in frequency and to obtain readings which are accurate under all ordinary conditions of wave form, voltage variation and convenience"
"There are two general classes of large capacity watt-hour meters, alternating-current and direct-current. The meters used for alternating current are almost invariably of the induction type, generally five-ampere meters used in conjunction with current transformers, or both current and potential transformers. A facile and accurate method of testing these, meters is by means of an induction type of rotating standard which by means of standard instrument transformers may be made available for testing any a-c. meter of any capacity, with a precision well within commercial limits."
"The determination of the ratio and phase angle of instrument transformers has now become a very important part of the work of electrical testing laboratories. The method now almost universally used in accurate work depends upon the potentiometer principle. Various modifications of this method have been suggested and used∗. A modification of the method has recently been developed at the Bureau of Standards which, while involving no entirely new principles, possesses some distinct advantages over any of these."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday, October 11, 1912."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute, held October 11, 1912, the Finance committee made a report at the request of President Mershon, in regard to the financing of the Institute's share of the mortgage upon the property of the United Engineering Society in New York. This mortgage originally amounted to $540,000.00, of which the Institute's share was $180,000.00, covering the cost of the ground upon which the Engineering Societies Building now stands."
"In the Spring of 1911, upon the recommendation of the Sections Committee, resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors relating to the expense of Section meetings. The plan covered by these resolutions provided that the maximum expenditures for any Section should not exceed a sum to be made up of three parts, as follows:"
"The attention of the membership is directed to the following resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors in January, 1910, regarding the publication of informal communications in the Institute PROCEEDINGS:"
"The opening meeting of the Los Angeles Section for the year 1912–1913 was held on September 24. One hundred and five members and visitors met at Brink's Cafe for dinner. After dinner Mr. Ensign, the retiring chairman, called the meeting to order and introduced the new chairman, Mr. George A. Damon. Mr. Damon made a short address and then called on the chairmen of the various committees, who outlined the work for the coming year. The secretary, Mr. E. R. Northmore, gave a brief account of the work that had been done by the Section during the past year. Professor H. S. Carhart then gave an illustrated lecture on his recent trip through Africa."
"Mr. Earnest A. Wright left the employ of the Allis-Chalmers Company (Bullock Works, Norwood, Ohio) October 15, to become manager of the Manhattan Ice, Light and Power Company, Manhattan, Kan."
"Mr. William Schulz, a salesman of special instruments for the Standard Engineering Company, Inc., of Boston, Mass., was instantly killed when struck by a train at Fitchburg, Mass., on October 9. Mr. Schulz was a salesman of many years' experience, and had been connected with the Bristol Company, Waterbury, Conn., and the Industrial Instrument Company, Foxboro, Mass., prior to his connection with the Standard Engineering Company, Inc. Mr. Schulz was an Associate of the A. I. E. E."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Economy in the construction and operation of power systems is engaging the best thought of engineers with the purpose of making the systems attractive to investors, as well as to those who utilize the power. The outdoor installation is based principally on economy in construction and partly on economy in operation."
"The increasing use of electric motors for driving the main rolls in modern steel works, makes the question of the power requirements of rolling mills of considerable importance to the industrial engineer engaged in designing such installations. An error in judgment due either to inexperience or to lack of accurate information, may involve the loss of a large sum of money in the installation itself, but what is of still greater importance, is the loss that is incurred indirectly, due to the time lost before the error can be remedied. The subject is one of great complexity due to the various factors controlling the power requirements and also to the variation in operating conditions in different works. The subject of rolling mills is one on which it is hardly possible to obtain reliable information from published data and the whole rolling mill practise is based upon empirical knowledge gained by experience. During the last few years an attempt has been made in Europe to reduce the subject of rolling mill practise to some scientific basis but without very great success up to the present time."
"Alexander C. Lanier: Mr. Wiley's paper has brought out the principal demands made upon motors in mill and crane service and my remarks will be limited to direct-current mDtors suitable for such applications. Commutation is always a factor of first importance in the direct-current motor; service conditions met in mill work are much more severe than in the ordinary industrial application. During the operating cycle the load usually varies between wide limits, and momentary peaks may reach three or four times the one hour rated load."
"H. A. Knoener: A mechanical motion could be arranged which would help out matters in connection with sticking or jammed seats on large valves. For instance, the valve stem could be so arranged that it would have a lost motion when opening or closing the valve. This would allow the motor to get up to full speed before being called upon do do the work required to release a jam. This is particularly applicable to gate valves."
"H. C. Specht: From Mr. Coey's paper one might gain the impression that the automatic control should be recommended in every case. I do not believe that this is the intention of the author. Whether an automatic or a manual operated control should be used, depends on various conditions. It is true, that as a rule the automatic control can do more work in the same time than a man by a hand control can do. But very often the fact is overlooked that the automatic control entails some complication, which gives a greater chance for minor trouble, and cannot always be located quickly, and, therefore, causes a good deal of loss in time and money. Certainly the series d-c. switch is a wonderful improvement in automatic control system and will give good service, and it is to be hoped that there will soon be invented an equivalent switch for automatic alternating-current control."
"David Hall: The importance of apparatus of this kind and the safety of operation so that there will be no breakdown are of such magnitude that each point has to be very carefully considered in the design, and there are a number of points, regarding which I desire to ask some questions."
"H. M. Gassman: I have had an opportunity to examine critically this installation. I can confirm all that Mr. Cheney has said in regard to the operation. I wish to emphasize particularly the smooth acceleration obtained. There was absolutely no noticeable jerking or impulse given to the rotor in starting with this type of control. Furthermore, I made it a special point, from the operating end, to inquire into the maintenance of this type of starter, and I was told by the man responsible for its operation that it is practically nothing."
"A Member: Dr. Whitney refers to the gases which disappear from the incandescent lamp, and refers to the same phenomena in connection with the X-ray tube, and he calls attention to the fact that some of these old glasses from the old bulbs, either from the incandescent lamp or from the X-ray tube, bubble on being heated to the softening point. I hope that Dr. Whitney will clear up the claims of certain English physicists, and of German physicists, as to this matter. Dr. Robert Poole of the University of Berlin repeated some experiments made by an English physicist and he declares absolutely that the Englishman is mistaken; that an old glass does not give off this gas when it is under pressure in a vacuum so that the gas would be given off. Dr. Whitney refers to the fact that the glass when heated to a softening point will bubble, referring to the old glass, and I know a new glass does this as well, the conditions being that the old glass or new glass must be in a vacuum of something less than one millimeter actual pressure. I hope that Dr. Whitney will clear up this point, because the question of where the gas goes to is really a question that is important."
"The Chairman: I would like to ask Mr. Dyson if it is the plan to distribute a call to the first idle operator, or the first idle cord."
"Jefferson E. Kershner: What is the method of reading the instrument?"
"Edwin M. Surprise I noted in reading Mr. Rhodes' paper, that in New York City, at least, and probably in other places where very large and tall office buildings are under consideration, the scheme of attenuation is employed; that is, a large cable is brought in at the basement and branches taken off from that cable at necessary intervals. In our New England territory we have leaned a good deal toward the extension of small risers, one, two, or more, as may be required, to each floor, with the idea that it would result in economy, not only on account of the first cost of extending the cables, but also by reason of flexibility."
"Charles P. Steinmetz: I have practically nothing to add, because the paper is so complete and the experimental investigations given check so closely with what we should expect theoretically, that the paper can be considered as one of those contributions which prove that our electrical engineering theory really is correct, that where, in practise, lines whether artificial lines, lumpy lines, or distributed lines, are traversed by current, we find this current to be the same character as calculated by theory. A number of parabolic curves, as in Fig. 15, are given. Such curves have been advocated, based on theoretical assumption, but here you see they are reproduced from actual experience in a transmission line, showing that, at least in electrical engineering, theory and practise are identical."
"C. M. Green: I have had quite a little experience and difficulty in making efficiency tests on old arc machines particularly the Brush arc generator. The input and output method, to the best of my knowledge, is the only method b y which the efficiency of these machines can be determined, due to the fact of the large influence which the current in the armature has, at ordinary loads, on the eddy currents in the pole shoes and core loss. Furthermore, the field excitation on the Brush, etc., machines with no current in the armature, and rated volts, runs about 25 per cent of that with normal current and rated volts in the armature, so that you may see that the effect of the armature current upon the field windings is very abnormal. There is absolutely no question about the difficulty of making input and output efficiency tests. It is extremely difficult to get results which will check day in and day out. There is a continual variation of at least 2 or 3 per cent in the efficiency."
"D. W. Roper: Referring to Fig. 1 of Mr. Elden's paper where an outline of the Merz-Price system is shown, there is indicated a time limit overload relay in a generating station, in addition to the Merz-Price balance relay at both ends of the line. I do not quite understand the application of the overload relay at that place. As I understand the Merz-Price balance protection scheme, the object of it is to open up the switches on the two ends of a faulty section of cable so that this faulty section will be disconnected and allow the remaining sections to continue in operation. Later in the paper, it apparently indicates that the object of the overload relay is to take care of the trouble from a switch failure or short circuit on the station busbars, which are, as the diagram shows, obviously not protected by the Merz-Price balance protection system. If I am correct in my interpretation of these relay diagrams, I would like to learn how to set an overload relay so that it will not open in case of a cable breaking down, and have it open when the short-circuit occurs on the station bus-bars. If that scheme of discrimination can be carried out it certainly is very effective. The paper states that the operation of the Merz-Price system is a protection against faults in any part of a system, thereby permitting the operation of momentary and continuous overloads at the discretion of the operator. Apparently that wording, if I understand it correctly, refers to a system in which there is no synchronous apparatus, because synchronous apparatus would be thrown out of service by the heavy short circuits which that is apparently intended to cover. If that is the case I think it should be made more apparent because it is a very essential item in designing relay protection systems."
"Lee Hagood: My remarks will be confined to the question of exciting current in connection with Mr. Hobart's and Mr. Knowlton's paper. As you will see from reading their paper, the matter of exciting currents bears very much on the question of air gaps. To some extent, the amount of exciting currents required may appear to be a very great objection to these machines. I wish to make the point that neither the design of the machine nor its application should be very much restricted on account of exciting current."
"B. G. Lamme: One important point brought cut by Mr. Eveleth is the small drawbar pull in European locomotive practise. From all I have been able to learn from various publications and from engineers who have visited European roads, Mr. Eveleth's statement is entirely correct. The drawbar pulls, even in the case of their largest electric locomotives, are relatively small, compared with what we find in every-day practise in this country. For instance, in the case of one of the largest foreign electrifications now being undertaken, 30,000 1b. (13,600 kg.) is the largest drawbar pull contemplated, according to my information. This may be compared with some of the results obtained in this country. Take the Hoosac Tunnel electrification, for example, where the locomotives are able to develop 22,000 1b. (9980 kg.) continuously, and 72,000 1b. (32,658 kg.) during starting and acceleration. These locomotives will start and pull 2000-ton trains through the tunnel, using only a single locomotive. Some of the terminal electrifications in New York City will also compare well with the Hoosac Tunnel in tractive effort. Also, the Sarnia Tunnel locomotives, which handle through-service largely, have gone up to tractive efforts as high as 98,000 1b. (44,452 kg.) b y actual measurement. These locomotives will develop tractive effort up to a point where they slip the wheels, even though the locomotives are relatively heavy and have all their weight on their drivers."
"Samuel Sheldon: It is to be regretted that the author of this paper has seen fit to omit the unit costs which have been chosen for the ordinates of his curve-sheets and the unit capacities used for abscissas. Were these to be introduced, the value of the paper to the membership would be much enhanced. If commercial considerations compel their omission, information could at least be given as to whether suppressed zeros are to be associated with the axes of coordinates at their points of intersection. Such suppressed zeros are associated with the coordinates of the only figure whose units are designated."
"B. G. Lamme: I have only a few points to bring up in connection with this paper. On page 1566 is a table which I did not understand. For example, the constants given for single-phase and three-phase windings do not agree, and yet very frequently three-phase windings are used to give singlephase. However, I may not understand how these constants are used. In the method of calculation which I have been using, I do not have any fixed constants. I first work out the magnetic field distribution. From this I then derive the constants for each individual case. The use of a constant is all right in the hands of a skilful designer, if he knows how it is derived, but in special designs it is likely to be misleading. The table given probably refers to a standard type of machine in which the constant has been determined, and has been proved to be constant in all cases."
"John B. Taylor: Toward the end of Mr. Peek's paper he speaks of the mechanical vibration of wires. The photographs reproduced in his paper, Fig. 41 and 42, I think are easily enough explained, that is, the wire is pulled first on one side, and then on the other, by electrostatic forces, and if the wire is approximately attuned to the frequency, closely enough so that it can be made to vibrate with that frequency, you have this characteristic of negative on one side and positive on the other. Mr. Peek speaks of the vibration noticed on a pair of 20-mil. steel conductors, 500 ft. (152 m.) long, strung at 10-ft. (3-m.) spacing, which I think must have been due to something of that condition."
"Henry G. Stott: The work that we are doing in New York in connection with the companies which I represent, is a very modest one, but one which was forced upon us by very peculiar circumstances. We have men who are trained for switchboard operators in railroad work, who handle a large amount of power, and these men are brought in with practically only a common school education and are taught the ordinary methods of operation of switchboard apparatus, taking care of the apparatus, etc. We found after training up men in this way that they became highly expert, although they had apparently no theoretical knowledge of what they were doing. However, a day of reckoning came to us when something went wrong with the operation or some trifling connection was broken, and these men failed lamentably. After a few experiences of that kind we discovered that no matter how well a man was able to carry on his routine duties, assuming everything was in first-class order, the least disturbance of that routine upset his whole idea. He was only an automaton. He could not think for himself. We thought we were using, perhaps, too poor a class of men. We tried a number of men trained at technical schools but it became very manifest that men who had received technical school education, while they met all the requirements of the case, could not be held there and we could not expect to hold them in work which soon becomes monotonous. We finally came to the conclusion that it would be necessary to establish a class to find out whether a man was an automaton or whether he had been really thinking and reading."
"H. B. Gale: I think the new unit proposed in this paper is a very practicable and useful one, and I hope it will become adopted as one of the new tools of the profession. I have spent a great deal of my time in the last few years in making calculations on electric heating, and have found it necessary to work out a table of constants for calculating watts transmitted by different substances per degree difference of temperature, and I am very much obliged to Dr. Hering for giving me a name for the constants of my table."
"E. D. Dreyfus: We are indebted to Mr. Bright for having added another interesting chapter on the subject of electric drive and the use of central station power and in taking the opportunity of opening the discussion I wish to make note of some important facts which should be kept in mind in connection with the quotation of rates for power purposes. Mr. Bright has been obliged to confine his comparisons to specific cases only and personally I feel that his deductions are very instructive and valuable."
"C. E. Skinner: From the mass of data already accumulated, there can be no doubt whatever as to the efficacy of ozone as a means of purifying drinking water. One of the Pittsburgh hospitals has an ozone plant installed, and the ozone is used not only for the purification of drinking water, but also for the disinfecting of the rooms and wards. Information in regard to this plant and from other sources has been such as to lead me to question whether there may not be harmful results from the use of ozone, as well as beneficial results. Shortly after the plant was installed in this hospital, one of the physicians experimenting with the ozone received the full strength of the ozone from the outlet tube, and was immediately rendered unconscious, and I believe there was some difficulty in reviving him, but so far as I was able to learn, no permanent injury resulted."
"The 276th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the Auditorium of the Engineers' Building, New York, October 11, 1912, at 8:00 p.m."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute as Associates. In cases where the applicant has applied for direct admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before November 1, 1912."
"The Lynn Section held a business meeting on September 3, 1912, at which the following ofhcers and committees were appointed for the ensuing year: Chairman, W. A. Hall; secretary, E. R. Berry; executive committee, A. T. Sampson, J. M. Darke, K. M. Bradley, F. P. Cox, R. S. Gilcreas; membership committee, B. F. Moody, R. P. Kneeland, R. C. Rogerson, G. N. Chamberlain, W. B. Taylor, G. M. Campbell, W. G. Fisher, G. E. Sanford, John Foulds, W. E. Greenleaf; entertainment, F. H. Bowman, F. J. Rudd, C. A. B. Halverson, M. J. Fitch, J. F. Dubois."
"Mr. Edgar C. Channell, formerly Chief Operator, has been appointed Engineer-in-charge, Power Station, Jhelum Power Installation, Mohora Rampur P. O. Kashmir."
"Mr. Harold Gay, who had been employed by L. B. Stillwell in important engineering work, died suddenly on Aug. 25th, at Farmington, Conn. Prior to his association with Mr. Stillwell he had been in the engineering department of the General Electric Company, and in charge of some of that company's important electrical construction work. For some years he was in the electrical department of the United States Navy, during most of which time he was stationed at Manila. Mr. Gay acted as supervising engineer in the construction of the power house at North Adams, which supplies the energy for the operation of the Hoosac Tunnel electric zone. He was a man of unusually high character, with an attractive personality, and his loss is keenly felt by his friends and business associates."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Until recently, reactance in transformers was considered only as an objectionable characteristic. To this there was one minor exception, which will be referred to later on, in connection with transformers to furnish constant current for arc lighting; but in general, because of its detrimental effect on regulation, reactance in transformers has been considered something to be avoided, and the more it was avoided the better was the transformer supposed to be fitted to its use."
"The discharge of electricity through gases is a subject that has had a most wonderful growth, — a growth possibly greater than that of any other single division in physics. With the discovery of cathode rays, X-rays, radioactivity, and rays of positive electricity, a new era was begun. The cathode rays were the first of the above to be brought to our attention, however, but little was known of their properties until the researches of the last decade. About fifteen years ago the wonderful X- or Roentgen rays were discovered. A few years later came that almost revolutionizing discovery of radioactivity, — revolutionizing because we are obliged to change our conceptions regarding the molecule and atom. Another of equal importance because of its bearing upon chemical composition, is afforded by J. J. Thomson's recent investigations on rays of positive electricity."
"In the paper which the writer presented before the Institute last year upon this subject∗ it was shown that there was no apparent change in the law governing the variation of the hysteresis loss with the induction for all temperatures from atmospheric up to near the point where the steel became non-magnetic. The writer suggested at that time that the rate of heating the sample might affect the change in hysteresis loss with changing temperature and the measurements described below were carried out to investigate this point. It was thought also that some additional light might be thrown on this subject if hysteresis loops were obtained from the sample near the non-magnetic temperature. This had not been done in the previous tests as the samples had been prepared for the two-frequency method of measurement in order to obtain results quickly at any temperature over as wide a range of induction as possible. An attempt was made at that time to obtain a few characteristic loops at high temperatures, but the use of iron wire for the secondary winding on the sample introduced errors on account of variable thermal currents in the galvanometer circuit which could not be readily eliminated. It was also found that the insulation resistance between primary and secondary at high temperatures was hot sufficiently good to permit measurements by the galvanometer method, although no error could be detected from this source with the two-frequency wattmeter method."
"W. C. Smith: Mr. Hobart has given us some very interesting figures on a phase of the railway problem which has been very little touched upon. I will add a few comments from the transformer standpoint. Let us take first the step-up transformers. We have, as Mr. Hobart has shown, 48,000 kw. to transform. The development of the transformer has kept pace with that of the generator and turbine, so that there would be no difficulty in providing three-phase units to transform the 48,000 kw. in 8,000, 10,000 or 12,000-kw. sizes. These transformers would be water cooled, no doubt, and would cost, as Mr. Hobart has said, about $2.50 per kv-a. We might take 8000 kv-a. for the capacity of each unit, one transformer corresponding to each turbine, so we would have six 8000-kv-a. threephase units. Now in the single-phase station we should probably not employ over 4,000 to 5,000 kv-a. transformers. It is possible to secure bids today up to 6000 kv-a. but I think we can take 4000 for the units which would be chosen for this case. Since 75 per cent power factor has been set, we would have sixteen 4000-kv-a. units, which would probably also be water cooled. The high-tension side of the transformers would be 35,000-volt on the single-phase system and 30,000 — volt on the three-phase, as Mr. Hobart has pointed out. He has also mentioned a few places where the single-phase situation has been aided by neglecting certain points. I might state here another point. If we have sixteen 4000-kv-a. units it is going to take a much greater space, and the piping arrangements, etc., will be mtick more in amount than for the three-phase, and altogether the station would have to be enlarged to some considerable extent over that for three phase. On the other end of the line on the three-phase side, the bulk of the transformers and converters are stated in one amount of $20 per kv-a. Probably the transformers would cost in the neighborhood of $3.25 or $3.50 per kv-a., depending on the size. Would we not need more substations on the d-c. line than on the singlephase line? Not being a railway man, it would appear to me that the single-phase would not need as many substations as the d-c. line. However, assuming the same number of stations, we can state that the units would be three-phase and perhaps air blast, or water cooled, depending on the local conditions; The transformers would today probably be called for with inherent reactance to take care of compounding the converters. Up to a few years ago it was necessary to supply external reactances for compounding converters, so that perhaps the cost could be cut down somewhat now, due to the fact that we have our compounding reactance as an inherent part of the transformer. Going to the single-phase substations, unquestionably these should be without attendants, which means self-cooled units. Self-cooled units within the last few years have been developed so that there would be no trouble in providing transformers of 1500 to 3000 kv-a., and I think we could take about 2000 kv-a. as the size that would be ordered under present conditions. With 64,000 kv-a. to be transformed, we would have 32 units. The cost of these was taken at $4 per kv-a. I at first considered this too high. However, on second thought, considering that the transformers are self-cooled and that it has only been by very recent developments that we have gone up to such sizes, it is probable that $4 as compared with the $2.50 is an approximate figure. Mr. Hobart pointed out the fact that three-phase units are cheaper than single phase. That may be taken wrongly, and I wish to say that a three-phase unit of the same capacity will cost some 15 per cent more than a single-phase, but three single-phase units having the same aggregate capacity as one three-phase unit will probably cost 10 to 15 per cent more than one three-phase unit. Then there is the question of voltage. On the three-phase and d-c. system, we have 30,000 for the high tension line. The secondary would be in the neighborhood of 800 to 1000, depending on whether the direct-current was 1200 or 1500 volts. On the other hand the single-phase would be 11,000 in all probability. At first thought the 11,000 volt, secondaries would cost more than the 1000-volt, and I believe Mr. Hobart so stated, but I doubt if the cost would be more in the large units that we are considering, like 2000 kv-a., and I believe that the 11,000-volt secondary would be perhaps 3 to 5 per cent cheaper than the lower voltage, due to the very heavy current on such large capacities. I will close with one other comment. The last point brought out in Mr. Hobart's paper refers to the development of the static converter or rectifier. I wish to point out from a transformer standpoint the fact that the employment of static rectifiers would permit the use of 60 cycles, as he has stated, rather than 25 cycles. If this is accomplished, and the rectifier is developed to a stage where it can be used for such work, and 60 cycles is adopted, I wish to point out that the transformers would be some 15 to 20 per cent cheaper than those quoted in the paper, which are 25-cycle transformers. In other words, that change in frequency will allow of 15 to 20 per cent saving in the transformers. This is a considerable item."
"Waldo V. Lyon (by letter): I gather from this paper on parallel operation that Mr. Welsh uses the simple method of analysis which assumes that each alternator has a constant synchronous reactance. The results obtained by this method, while useful, are often at considerable variance with those met with in practise."
"R. B. Williamson: Mr. Fechheimer's paper presents a large amount of interesting and valuable experimental data regarding a type of motor that is rapidly coming into use, and about which comparatively little has been published."
"H. Weichsel: The method used by Mr. Moore for investigating the actual flux distribution in a direct-current machine consists in determining by means of an oscillograph the wave shape of the alternating e.m.f. generated in an armature coil spanning 1 8 0 electrical degrees. The assumption is then made that the field distribution is similar to the wave shape of the generated e.m.f., providing we consider that the base line of the half wave is equal to the pole pitch of the machine. This assumption leads to correct results if the field distribution is absolutely constant and does not change with time. If, however, the field distribution or the field strength changes with time this method must lead to incorrect results."
"A. H. Griswold: I am personally familiar with the proposition which Mr. MacDonald has handled, and I desire to say that it is fully appreciated by the people of Los Angeles, as well as the operating companies."
"H. R. Wakeman: Messrs. Lisberger and Wilson have given us a very interesting and instructive paper on alternating current underground distribution. In connection with this paper I will ask Mr. Lisberger one or two questions. I understand that some of the alternating current feeders in the system described in the paper are not only underground feeders but also feed certain overhead districts adjacent to the underground district, and I would like to inquire whether or not this has presented any particular problems. Has it been found necessary to provide any protective apparatus either in the stations or at the junctions of the underground cables with the overhead system to take care of any heavy surges, such as are caused by severe short circuits?"
"H. E. White: I have been greatly impressed with one particular point to which I think attention should be called, that is, it is impossible to consider the induction motor, or the direct-current motor alone by itself. Mr. Specht's paper shows clearly what can be done in using an induction motor with electric braking, but it would appear that the admission must be made that after all it is not an electric braking, but a reverse power system which is described. I recall one application where this was tried. The hoist did not always attain full speed, at least not in the preliminary test, and after coming to rest, would reverse without coming to rest at the point where the automatic devices that had been provided should have stopped it."
"Wilfred Sykes: Having been more or less responsible for the first of the man trolley equipments installed at Duluth using alternating-current, I would like to draw attention to a few points in the paper. The maximum rate of operation of the man trolley bridge has been given as 500 tons of coal per hour. I have some tests showing that in the case of one test, extending over a period of five hours, in which twelve minutes delay was incurred, due to waiting for the boat, leaving a net period of 4 hr. 48 min., the bridge made 389 trips; about 40 per cent of these trips were to the first hopper for loading direct into the cars, and about sixty per cent of the trips went back 150 feet on the pile. That gave an average rate of operation of 74 trips per hour. The capacity of the bucket averaged a little more than five tons, so that the total amount of the coal handled was about 2050 tons. The maximum rate of operation over one hour was found to be 83 trips; the number was about evenly divided between trips to the hopper and trips to the pile."
"R. A. Black: The discussion has been on electrically operated rolling mills. A question comes to my mind as to the comparative cost of electrically operated versus steam operated mills. This is one thing that electrical engineers are facing now, the question of which pays. I heard the superintendent of a large steel mill say recently that this subject has never been taken up and thoroughly discussed, and that he had never been able to find any comparison of the cost of operating an electrical mill and a steam driven mill. Is it better? Is it cheaper? Does it pay to operate electrically? Which is the more flexible? Can you turn out steel as quickly and as economically with electric as with steam operated mills?"
"The two hundred and seventy-third meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held at Schenectady, N. Y. under the auspices of the Schenectady Section, on May 17, 1912. Technical sessions have been arranged for the morning and part of the evening, and the afternoon and the remainder of the evening will be devoted to various kinds of entertainment."
"The following members of the Board were present: President Gano Dunn, New York; Past-Presidents Lewis B. Stillwell, New York, and Dugald C. Jackson, Boston; Vice-Presidents David B. Rushmore and Charles W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y., W. G. Carlton, New York; Managers A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis., William S. Murray, New Haven, Conn., Severn D. Sprong, Brooklyn, N. Y., H. H. Barnes, Jr., New York, William S. Lee, Charlotte, N. C.; Treasurer George A. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J.; and Secretary F. L. Hutchinson, New York."
"The two-hundred and seventieth meeting of the Institute was held in the Engineers Building, New York, Friday evening, April 5, 1912. President Dunn called the meeting to order at 8:20 o'clock, and introduced Mr. Frank J. Sprague, chairman of the Institute's Railway Committee, under whose auspices the meeting was held."
"Ballots for the Constitutional amendments have been rapidly coming in but more are needed, to reach the minimum number required, in order that the vote may be considered."
"The report of Mr. Farley Osgood, who had been appointed by President Dunn special representative of the Institute at the recent annual conference in Boston of the Electrical Committee of the National Fire Protection Association, was submitted at the meeting of the Board of Directors on April 5, 1912. The three features which Mr. Osgood considered of greatest interest the Institute are presented herewith."
"Recent extensions and consolidations of power companies and the extensive development of hydroelectric properties in the South has made it imperative that both city and county authorities take thought as to what precautions shall be required of corporations where use is made by them of the public highways for their overhead lines. Most of the transmission lines are in connection with two or more plants operated in parallel and are erected with a view to serving large sections of the country. In order to find proper market, very considerable distances must be traversed and economy as well as efficiency demands operation at excessively high voltages. The two most popular differences of potential in this field have been 66,000 and 110,000 volts."
"The distinguished Swiss electrical engineer, Mr. C. E. L. Brown, of Baden, arrived in New York March 31, on his way home from a trip round the world. The New York Reception Committee of the Institute had arranged for a dinner on April 4, to be made the occasion of the presentation to Mr. Brown of an engrossed certificate of honorary membership in the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, which distinction had been conferred at a meeting of the Board of Directors on January 12, 1912."
"The meeting of the Schenectady Section on March 26 was devoted to a discussion of the “Economical Limits of Power Transmission.”"
"Atlanta The regular meeting of the Atlanta Section held March 12 at the University Club was attended by 52 members and visitors. Chairman A. M. Schoen, chief engineer of the Southeastern Underwriter's Association, read a paper on “Proposed Recommendations to County and Municipal Authorities Governing Transmission Line Construction,” which is reprinted elsewhere in Section I. Mr. J. N. Eley, consulting engineer, spoke on the subject of “Incandescent Lighting for Three-Phase Systems.” Both addresses brought out considerable discussion."
"Mr. W. N. Smith is now connected with the Washington and Old Dominion Railway Company of Washington, D. C., as consulting engineer."
"Professor Antonio Pacinotti, of the chair of technological physics of the University of Pisa, Italy, inventor of the continuous-current dynamo and discoverer of the principle of its reversibility, died on March 24, 1912, in his seventy-first year."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper will discuss means and certain results obtained by the application of selective switches to common battery multiple telephone switchboard systems."
"The following paper is an analysis of the losses and efficiencies of the Seattle Municipal Light and Power plant for the year 1911. Great care has been taken in these measurements and the results have been checked in as many ways as possible and instruments have been frequently calibrated. These figures are therefore believed to be a close approximation to the true values."
"One of the most important portions of the outside plant of the companies engaged in the transmission of energy or intelligence is the structure for supporting the conductors, and as such it is receiving a constantly increasing consideration from engineers, as the value of an uninterrupted service at the least cost is being realized."
"The object of this paper is to set forth the Los Angeles method of joint pole construction, which five years of practise has proven to be a workable scheme."
"Purposes Early in the 15th century street lights were ordered in Paris, France, to prevent crimes of violence. This was at a time when the only occupants of the streets after night were belated pedestrians and a few vehicles. In the present day the use of our streets by night is growing and ever increasing. In fact the traffic in certain sections is heavier, in some cities, during the earlier part of the evening than it is at any time during the day. It is necessary to provide street illumination to mark the course, assist the police, also to avoid obstacles and to recognize persons. Police require to observe suspicious characters, and to see numbers on automobiles."
"In the application of central station power to coal mines the successful operator of today is sometimes at a loss to know just what saving will be effected, for the following reasons: first, he believes that he is producing power at a fairly low cost, due to cheap fuel, simple apparatus and low cost of buildings; second, hot knowing approximately his costs in detail, he is at first unable to see his saving, if any, as compared with a definite rate per kw-hr. for central station power; third, the use of central station energy often requires the purchasing of new apparatus, and the selling of the present generating apparatus under unfavorable conditions."
"Valves of 24 in. (60 cm.) diameter and larger are usually operated other than by hand for the reason that generally such valves must be closed in a very short time, which is impossible by hand-operation, and also because such valves are frequently located in out of the way places and more conveniently controlled from some operating point more or less remote from the valves."
"The problem of motor control in industrial practise and especially in steel plant operation is one in which there is as great a diversity of opinion as in any other problem that presents itself to the industrial engineer. In this paper, it is the intention to take up some of the reasons for the use of automatic control for motors as opposed to manual control, and also some of the tests which have recently been made at the Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. on the new developments in automatic control which have been brought about by the use of the series-wound accelerating switch, and the deductions and standards that have resulted from these tests, in connection with previous experience in automatic and manual control."
"Direct-Current Mill Type Motor Motor drive for the auxiliary apparatus of steel mills, including tables, screw-downs, cranes, charging machines, etc., has been used for about twenty years. The application of motors to the various machines was naturally a very gradual process. The conditions were very unusual, as the work was of an extremely severe nature, requiring frequent starting and stopping, rapid acceleration and sudden stops. Motors had to operate in very hot and dirty places and in a majority of cases gear drive was used. The mills were operated for 24 hours a day, six days a week. The manually operated direct rheostatic controller was the only type available, and this meant heavy overloads during starting and reversing periods."
"In a paper before this Institute∗ the author referred to the investigations that were made in Europe, preliminary to the installation of the first electrically driven reversing rolling mill, and it is interesting to note that somewhat similar experiments and investigations were made in this country, independently, with the same object in view."
"For various classes of work — for cranes, hoists, rolling mills, etc. — it is generally required that means be provided for stopping the motor quickly. When the electric power supply to the motor is taken off, the motor speed will gradually slow down, due to the friction load; however, the time required to bring the motor to a standstill by this method is generally too long, and other means have to be applied, stopping by brakes mechanically, electrically, or hand-operated, electric braking by alternating or direct current, etc."
"The importance of ozone as an industrial factor in certain lines of engineering is becoming appreciated quite rapidly. The relatively large number of patents which are being applied for, the increasing number of advertisements which are appearing and the character and standing of the electrical manufacturers who have entered the field, all point to a realization of Berthelot's prediction that ozone was destined to enjoy a great vogue in its application in the arts and sciences. The commercial future of ozone may be regarded as assured. The many actual applications which have already been made and the numberless fields for its logical invasion, together with recent developments of perfected ozone generators all indicate the growing consideration which this reagent is gaining for itself."
"The object of this paper is to describe a new form of lightning arrester in which the attainment of low cost was the principal motive of the design, and to note the improvement the application of this arrester will have on the methods and efficiencies of protection of distribution circuits. This is the first step toward the complete solution of the problem of discontinuity of service and injury of transformers due to lightning. This is to be the subject of continuous study until the desirable condition is reached. The end seems already in view although not all of the material is sufficiently completed to be made a part of this paper."
"The object of this paper is to describe a new instrument which will record the time to the second of a phenomenon of any kind that can be made to close an electrical contact. Besides recording whether a phenomenon is starting or stopping, a printed record is made of the day of the week, a.m. or p.m., the hour, minute, and second. The highest number of records put on a sheet by a single one of these instruments so far is thirty. The instrument is capable of recording a movement of all of its pencils or type wheels simultaneously, or the movement of any lesser number. Every record shows the position of every type wheel whether it moves or not. The instrument records only to the nearest second but in case of successive discharges during a single second their relative precedence is noted by giving them successive prints of the same second. In this manner the recorder will split a second into about four parts. The manner of operation will be described later."
"The investigations outlined here were made last summer on the artificial transmission line described in a previous paper.1 Briefly, this line consists of 400 glass cylinders 6 in. (15 cm.) in diameter and 4½ ft. (136 cm.) long. Upon these are wound 240 turns of No. 8 B. & S. copper wire and the inner surface is lined with tinfoil, cut so as to avoid secondary currents. The constants of the total line are as follows:"
"The object of this paper is several fold, first, to describe the effects of high frequencies on car wiring; second, to describe experiences with the application of the aluminum arresters to an electrical railway where lightning is especially severe; third, to describe additional devices applied to the d-c. aluminum arrester which gives it greatly diminished deterioration with only a slight decrease in protective value; and, fourth, to describe experiments on the extinguishment of d-c. arcs and the changes that have resulted in the redesign of the old magnetic blow-out arrester."
"In any transmission system each of its elements, the supporting structures, the insulators and conductors, has a vital mechanical function and on each may rest the success or the failure of the system. In the early days of high voltage transmission these points were not given due consideration and there were many cases of the destruction of lines due to washouts, sleet and wind storms and frequent breakages of wires due simply to contraction at low temperatures. During later years, however, engineers have profited by these experiences and a greater study has been made of the details of mechanical construction, resulting almost entirely in the elimination of disasters except in cases of most unusual and severe conditions."
"No attempt will be made to go into descriptive accounts of the various installations as these have already been well covered by articles in the technical press. At the present time there is evidence of considerable activity in making plans for rather extensive electrifications for steam railroads in the various European countries. In different sections of the continent the conditions bringing about electrification are varied, the more prominent perhaps being the greater capacity obtained for tunnels where the traffic is now limited by problems of ventilation, the utilization of cheaper grades of fuel for the generation of power, the attractiveness of utilizing water powers which may be developed at low cost, the elimination of expensive steam pusher service on mountain grades, and the electrification of steam tracks where the limit of the quantity of transportation which can be supplied under steam-operated conditions has been reached."
"On the transmission line proper there are two electrical factors that fix the maximum voltage which may be used. First, the direct loss of energy into the air due to corona, second, arc-over or puncture of the line insulator."
"The following article is a brief discussion of a series of tests made upon electric locomotives pulling freight trains on the Fort Dodge, Des Moines & Southern Railway, and a tabulation of the results of those tests. The object of the tests was to obtain records under regular service conditions from which values could be calculated upon power consumption, train resistance, acceleration, and other fundamental data, which could be used to check the figures ordinarily assumed in making calculations and to show the amount of variation from standard-figures which could be anticipated in practice."
"The consideration of an underground conduit and cable system involves many points of interest besides that of the physical construction of the duct line, manholes, etc. The point of prime importance and interest is the load or current which may be safely carried through a duct, and this is intimately related to nearly every feature of construction of the duct system and of the cables."
"The Annual Banquet of the A. I. E. E. held during the Convention at Boston and at which the Edison Medal was presented to Mr. George Westingliouse, was briefly mentioned in the July PROCEEDINGS. The speeches on that occasion, which were omitted from the previous issue because of lack of space, are given herewith."
"Engineering and economics were not supposed formerly to have any close or intimate relation, and prior to the last decade the realm of engineering was popularly understood to lie within the confines of applied natural science. But the decade just completed has witnessed a very important change in the early point of view, brought about almost entirely by the new problems which have sprung into existence with the rapid development of our public utilities. The engineer is now called upon to aid in the solution of the broad question of regulating our public service corporations, and there he rinds himself in contact not only with the law but that more interesting field of political science or economics, and almost of necessity he must absorb a good deal of both. A very able attorney once remarked that a successful engineer could never hope to evade the lawyers or the witness chair, and now perhaps we can go farther and say that sooner or later he will inevitably meet the political economist, in substance if not in form."
"Dr. Steinmetz introduced his subject by defining the second law of thermodynamics as that law which states that in any cyclic transformation of energy, the total amount of unavailable heat energy increases. Another way of stating this law is that in any system, heat flows only from a higher to a lower temperature unless energy is added to the system. An example of this law is the energy obtainable from the steam produced by a steam boiler and then superheated. It is well known that the energy available for driving a steam engine is represented by the difference between the temperature of the steam leaving the superheater and the temperature of the steam entering the condenser. The energy remaining in the steam as it passes into the condenser is unavailable for transformation into mechanical energy. Any method which will reduce the temperature of the steam entering the condenser, such as a partial vacuum, will increase the amount of heat energy rendered available for transformation into mechanical energy."
"Mr. Eveleth opened the subject by stating that railroading is an industry which has for its object the manufacturing of transportation. It is, therefore, comparable with other manufacturing projects. It is the object of a railway to give the best quality of service at the lowest cost comparable with the market. Railroading is essentially a monopolistic enterprise, since competition restricts the market."
"At the meeting of the executive committee of the Chicago Section, reported on June 26, Mr. Ralph H. Rice was selected as chairman and Mr. E. W. Allen as secretary for the coming year."
"Mr. Edward E. Clement, telephone engineer, patent attorney and patent expert of Washington, D. C, sailed on July 11 from New York, for a visit to London, Berlin and Paris."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"On the wall of a great engineering library is the legend “Engineering is the art of organizing and directing men, and of controlling the forces and materials of Nature for the benefit of the human race”."
"Every engineering operation seeks to accomplish some practical result, which is measured by its financial worth or capacity to earn money by saving labor in doing something useful. There are no exceptions to this, but for railroad work, which will be the subject tonight, we often have to look further and deeper for the full measure of worth, than is usual in any other matters with which I am familiar."
"Never before in the history of modern industrialism has there been such a stupendous effort made by every one for high efficiency as at the present time. It is the keynote of every convention; the proceedings of the Institute and other engineering societies are full of it; magazines and daily papers are devoting a great deal of space to the subject."
"R. P. Bolton: I will draw attention to some of the features which the author has introduced as being of an informative nature and upon which you are invited to base future action and practise, and of which the diagrams presented purport to be indexes or guides. A casual observation shows that they omit consideration of a very important element of variation in output and demand on the part of these appliances. They seem to be based upon the sole consideration as to whether electricity be purchased or be manufactured, in the case of those on the left side of the page, and on the further consideration, in the case of the right-hand diagrams, of whether a certain amount of steam, more or less, would be required and provided by the apparent electrical output. The isolated plant, however, operates under summer conditions and under winter conditions, the demand for steam heat being climatic, intermittent, and irregular, while the demand for electric lighting is also intermittent and irregular — therefore how can conditions as laid down in the diagrams be used to determine the relative proportions or even the kind of apparatus to be installed in different plants? It is an open question whether or not it is desirable for steam-driven fans to be installed for indirect heating systems in connection with purchased electricity. The conditions might be such that it would be highly undesirable from an economic standpoint to make such a combination, and more particularly so if the process involved the employment of extra labor, which after all is the main element to be considered in connection with all the items in these diagrams, and one which does not appear in them at all."
"David B. Rushmore: I want to say a few words about “some of the new things in power transmission. President Dunn mentioned the waterpower part of it — water is often spoken of as “white coal.” We are now coming to a situation of black water, that is, we are going beyond the development of waterpowers for power transmission, and one of the installations under consideration, which is just being put in, is one of the most interesting phases of the present power transmission. The Lehigh Coal and Navigation Company, the oldest of the anthracite companies in the Pennsylvania field, is just in the process of installing the first steam station in the East for purely power transmission purposes. They are going to be within easy transmission distance of both New York and Philadelphia, and ultimately will have a steam turbine plant of 120,000 kw., as their plans are at present. In future they may exceed that capacity. Their plans are to transmit power, for local distribution largely, for cement mills at first, and also, presumably, for the lighting of the towns through which they will pass, and possibly reaching into New York or Philadelphia, or both."
"The following is a resume of the business transacted at the regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held on August 8, 1912."
"A meeting of the University of Arkansas Branch was held on April 16, 1912, at which there were twenty present. Mr. W. B. Stelzner presided. Mr. Watkins presented a paper on the hydroelectric development at Keokuk, Ia. Following this, Dr. Carroll, professor of chemistry, gave a lecture on “The Fixation of Atmospheric Nitrogen by the Electrical Process,” showing that it is commercially possible where electric power is cheap, as it is at hydroelectric plants."
"The following Associates were transferred to the grade of Member in the Institute at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on August 8, 1912."
"MR. E. J. BARRY has been appointed electrical engineer to the St. Paul and Tacoma Lumber Company, of Tacoma, Wash., in charge of the electrification of the company's new plant and logging equipment."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The name of Joseph Henry is connected with the most brilliant epoch in the history of the science of electricity. To appreciate it fully, let us briefly describe the state of this science prior to the beginning of this glorious epoch — I refer now to the discoveries of the eighteenth century. Stephen Gray's discovery of electrical conduction in 1729 was the broadest foundation for subsequent work. Franklin's discoveries and philosophical speculations in the realm of electrical phenomena gave a tremendous impulse to further research. Galvani's fortunate discovery of the existence of electric force in the contact region of heterogenous bodies closes this period."
"There are probably many persons who can recall the time when Portland cement was considered to be a luxury in building all but the finest and greatest structures, owing to its high cost, and to a certain extent, to the uncertainty of the quality of the product. During the last twelve years those connected with the industry have been working hard on improvements in the methods of manufacture, and the improvement in quality and reduction in price speedily led to a great increase in the consumption of cement. These improvements were rendered possible by the introduction of the rotary kiln, and also by improvements in the grinding of refractory materials, which have had a much more serious study during that period than at any time previously; improvements in conveying machinery have also had not a little to do with the economical manufacture of Portland cement."
"Gano Dunn: It is a deep satisfaction to see that the author of this paper has found in the Institute the forum where it may be presented and discussed instead of finding that forum in the Illuminating Engineering Society. The author followed good precedent. Illumination has been a close cousin if not a nearer relative to electrical engineering, and I think it always will be."
"J. B. Fisken: To show what electrical engineering has done, I might state that the first time I saw the Spokane valley was twenty-five years ago, and I don't think there were six houses in the whole 35 miles. The valley was covered with bunch grass, which was considered only good for the Indians to feed to their cayuses. I had a request from a prominent member of this Institute to make some inquiries as to prices about two years ago, and I found prices for irrigated lands ten miles from Spokane ran from $800 to $1,000 an acre. When I first saw it, I could have bought the whole place for $2.50 an acre. I say that merely to illustrate what irrigation has done in the Spokane valley, and to encourage others who have had a chance to exploit it. Mr. Corbett has omitted to show one thing on the diagram in his paper to which attention might be called. There is one place up there where there are arranged radially at the foot of the shaft four chambers, the idea being that one pump was all that was required to start with. That plant could have been quadrupled without any additional expense in walling the chambers. Mr. Corbett states that there is a rate at present of $4 per month, per kv-a. He does not state whether the charge is by the month during the irrigation season or the rate of $48 a year; the discussion on that point has not brought this out."
"H. M, Friendly: I ask if Mr. Deakin has ever considered the use of a private branch exchange having a limit of 170 stations instead of the 90 station limit in order to obviate having to use second selectors. In Chicago, I saw the switch that the manufacturers had designed, but I had no knowledge of its practical use. I also saw one at Columbus, Ohio, they were testing. The switch differed somewhat from the ordinary connector switch known as ten levels up and ten horizontal. This switch had twelve levels up and nineteen levels horizontal, in that manner you could obtain one hundred and ninety terminals. Of course, 1 assume Mr. Deakin would have to kill the top terminal, that is the naught level in order to facilitate intercommunication. I would like to ask if that kind of equipment has ever been figured on, and if it has been successful?"
"H. Y. Hall: I ask Mr. Griswold what has been the experience of the telephone companies in the use of concrete particularly, and what has been the effect of the use of concrete on the butt rot. That is, under the weather conditions, applied under similar conditions that exist in the west, and also in the different soils. The paper states “It is the practice to allow the pole to reach approximately a safety factor of one before replacing.” Would that apply to all the poles in the line, or to just an occasional pole? I take it that would be rather unsafe to apply a factor of one to a whole line of poles; you might to an occasional pole."
"Gano Dunn: It is startling indeed to see the resulting efficiencies so carefully and accurately computed as have been computed in this paper, and it is also startling to see a considerable difference in the amount of this total efficiency from what probably it would have been given in the prospectus of a hydroelectric company had this company been in the course of financing instead of in actual operation. In one table there are given certain efficiencies of impulse units and certain turbine units, and both seem considerably low. If I understand Mr. Ross' use of the figures right, these statistics indicate lower than full load efficiencies. Am I right, Mr. Ross?"
"The Meetings and Papers Committee of the A.I.E.E. has completed its schedule of meetings for the season of 1912, which are as follows:"
"The two hundred and sixty-seventh meeting of the A.I.E.E. was held in the Engineers Building, New York, Friday evening, January 12, 1912. The meeting was called to order at 8:15 o'clock by Mr. D. B. Rushmore, who occupied the chair temporarily during President Dunn's absence at another meeting."
"Notes on the Proposed Constitutional Amendments Providing for an Additional Grade of Membership In this issue of the Proceedings members will read in the resume of business done at the meeting of the Board of Directors on January 12th, a notice of the final adoption by the Board of a group of amendments to the constitution to provide an additional grade of membership in the Institute. To become effective, at least 30 per cent of the membership must vote upon them, and, of this vote, 75 per cent must be affirmative. In due course the text of the amendments in their formal form will be mailed to each member."
"At the last annual convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, a session was given over to a conference of Institute officers and Section delegates for the purpose of discussing reforms in the methods of nominating and electing officers, so that these might more truly represent the Institute as a whole than it was considered they do at present. A reading of the Proceedings of the session — which have been printed and sent to those taking part — indicates two principal topics of discussion, with divided opinion upon each. They are: 1 — whether or not every election shall be a contest, and 2 — whether or not a Member of the Institute, resident outside of New York, has his full voice in the Institute's affairs."
"Upon the unanimous recommendation of the Secretary Committee at the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held January 12, 1912, Mr. Frederick L. Hutchinson was unanimously appointed Secretary, from January 1, 1912, to fill the unexpired term of Mr. Ralph W. Pope, who resigned and was appointed Honorary Secretary last summer."
"The following members of the Board of Directors were present at the meeting held on Friday afternoon, January 12th: President Gano Dunn, New York; Past-presidents Lewis B. Stillwell, New York; D. C. Jackson, Boston, Vice-presidents H. V. Buck and P. H. Thomas, New York; D. B. Rushmore, and C. W. Stone, Schenectady, N. Y.; Managers, A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis.; H. H. Norris, Ithaca, N. Y.; S. D. Sprong, H. H. Barnes, Jr., W. S. Rugg and Chas. E. Scribner, New York; F. S. Hunting, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Norman W. Storer, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Farley Osgood, Newark, N. J.; and Acting Secretary F. L. Hutchinson, New York."
"The Institute delegation to Panama sailing from New York departed at noon January 17th, on the steamer “Almirante,” the party consisting of 59 members and guests. Among the members who were on the pier to bid bon voyage to the party were President Dunn, Honorary Secretary Pope, Secretary Hutchinson, Mr. John H. Finney, Mr. C. O. Mailloux and Mr. S. D. Sprong, to whose efforts the under taking of the trip and the success of the arrangements are due."
"The plan of making preliminary nominations by petition, for the various Institute offices to be filled at the coming annual election, which was published in detail in the January Proceedings, has resulted in the preliminary nomination of a number of names. The complete list of candidates for the formal nomination endorsed by fifty or more Members or Associates as provided in Section 18 of the By laws is as follows:"
"Baltimore The Baltimore Section held a banquet on December 15, 1911, at the Hotel Raleigh, Baltimore. Thirty-four members were present. After the banquet Dr. J. B. Whitehead, of the Johns Hopkins University, gave an account of the doings of the International Electrochemical Commission. Mr. C. G. Edwards gave an interesting talk on “Automatic Telephony,” with special reference to the automanual system."
"Mr. Robert F. Trennert has resigned as electrician with the Great Western Power Company, San Francisco, to accept his old position as electrician on the Los Angeles Aqueduct."
"Mr. Charles Coit Cokefair, president and general manager of the Great Northern Development Company and subsidiary corporations, died at his home, 2302 East Fifth Street, Duluth, Minn., on Wednesday morning, December 13, 1911. Death was due to pneumonia, which had confined him to his home for two weeks."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A great many curves have been presented before the Institute showing the relation between load factor and the cost of power. Some of them were based on very simple relationships between the elements entering into the total cost, and others have been of a purely empirical nature based on actual results. The interrelation of the various items of power cost is necessarily very complicated and dependent to a large measure on the skill and judgment of the engineer in charge. Few plants have been operated at any considerable range of load factor under the same operating engineer. It has been the privilege of the author to work up many of the curves presented to this Institute and he has been led to the belief that a more extended study of the subject is necessary in order to find the means of properly comparing the costs of power in different plants operating under different management, load conditions, coal costs, labor costs, and other circumstances."
"H. W. Buck: There is a popular idea that alternating-current motors can be used only where constant speed is allowable, and that where variable speed is required it is necessary to convert the alternating current into direct current and obtain in this way the flexible speed variation through direct-current motors."
"Three-phase generating and transmitting systems have been employed on so extensive a scale that the capital and operating costs may be fairly closely determined for any given conditions. Of late years, however, serious and well-backed proposals have been made which have comprised as a prominent feature, the generation and transmission of single-phase electricity.1"
"The twenty-ninth Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held in Boston, Mass., at the Hotel Somerset, from Monday, June 24, to Friday, June 28, was an unqualified success, in attendance, number and quality of papers presented, and interest and variety of entertainment features arranged by the local convention committee. The total registered attendance was 936. Over sixty papers were presented at the technical sessions. Two of these sessions were held jointly with other societies, the Illuminating Engineering Society and the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education."
"The directors present at the meeting were: President Gano Dunn, New York; Vice-Presidents Morgan Brooks, Urbana, ill., W. G. Carlton, and Percy H. Thomas, New York; Managers A. W. Berresford, Milwaukee, Wis.; W. S. Murray, New Haven, Conn.; H. H. Norris, Ithaca, N. Y.; S. D. Sprong, H. H. Barnes, Jr., and Charles E. Scribner, New York; N. W. Storer, Pittsburgh, Pa.; W. S. Lee, Charlotte, N. C; and Secretary F. L. Hutchinson, New York."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors held in Boston, June 27, upon recommendation of the Law Committee, the By-laws adopted by the Board of Directors to govern the transfer of members under the special section of the Constitution as adopted on May 21, 1912, were amended, the revision consisting of the elimination of the provision that names of applicants be published in the PROCEEDINGS prior to transfer; the provision of publication after transfer was retained. The special section of the By-laws as amended is as follows:"
"The last meeting for the year of the Baltimore Section was held on the evening of May 17 in the Physical Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University. Twenty members were in attendance, and Dr. J. B. Whitehead presided. Dr. L. M. Potts gave a paper on “The Oscillograph and Some of its Applications,” illustrated with lantern slides. The annual election of officers resulted in the choice of Dr. J. B. Whitehead as chairman and Dr. L. M. Potts as secretary, and executive committee: Messrs. H. B. Stabler, J. B. Scott, C. G. Edwards, Douglas Burnett, H. H. Seabrookc and A. S. Loizeaux."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held on May 21, 1912, the following resolutions were adopted:"
"The following accessions have beea made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Much has been written within the last few years upon the subject of atmospheric or so-called “corona” losses between wires at high voltages. Particular interest has been aroused in connection with this loss because of the fact that since the advent of the suspension insulator and the condenser type of transformer bushing the loss due to corona has become the limiting factor in the increase of transmission line voltages. The number of tests which have been made to determine the exact value of such loss under varying conditions of line construction, weather conditions, etc., which have been recognized to be free from a relatively large probability of error, have been too small to warrant final conclusions, particularly with regard to the accuracy of empirical formulas derived therefrom. The formulas suggested for the determination of corona loss and critical voltage have not been applied to other available tests nor a comparative summary made of such tests upon a common basis."
"Recently there has been a considerable movement on the part of several large buyers of electrical apparatus to the end that efficiency tests of rotating apparatus be made by input-output measurement rather than by the summation of separate losses. One of the engineering societies∗ has also lent its approval to this movement."
"For comparing an alternating-current and a direct-current resistance by the electrodynamometer method in a precise manner the apparatus required is a frequency meter to measure the frequency of the current used (which must be known, as the quantity being measured will vary with frequency), an alternating-current ammeter to give roughly the value of the current (for the alternating-current resistance will also, in general, depend upon the value of the current), a three-point double-throw switch for quickly changing connections, resistances, and an electrodynamometer. This last piece of apparatus should have sufficient capacity in its current coils to carry, without heating, the full current. Its hanging or potential coils should be two in number, and so arranged as to form a system which is perfectly astatic in respect to the earth's field. The constant of the instrument will then be the same for direct and alternating currents. All good electrodynamometers are constructed in this way. Either the Rowland deflection type or Siemens type, constructed to be astatic, may be used. The method to be described was tested with a Rowland deflection type electrodynamometer."
"Illumination in the past has been looked upon largely as an accessory. Modern illuminating engineering, however, is concerned with the adaptation of the available types of lamps to certain supply circuits, to various classes of service, and to given conditions of building construction."
"In former times every ship that went to sea was in danger of foundering or being driven ashore in a storm; of being destroyed by fire or disabled and lost through an accident to her machinery. She ran the risk of collision with an iceberg, a derelict or another ship, and of running ashore in darkness or thick weather."
"In modern office buildings, hotels and apartment houses large numbers of telephones are required. It would be inconvenient and impracticable to run a pair of wires through one of these large buildings each time a telephone is installed, in order to establish connection with the outside wire plant of the telephone system, as is ordinarily done when telephones are installed in residences or small business buildings. To overcome this difficulty, when the plans are prepared for an office building, hotel or apartment house, a forecast should be made of the probable future requirements of the building as a whole for telephone service, and facilities provided for a certain amount of cabling with the necessary terminals and subsidiary wiring. All large cities contain many buildings that are cabled and wired for telephone service according to a comprehensive plan and, of the smaller places, there are few that do not have some buildings of a character requiring more or less provision of this kind."
"The satisfactory solution of any electrical problem is the result of a careful study of the conditions to be met and the application of the best apparatus available that will meet, or most nearly meet the specified conditions. Every paper machine has slightly different dimensions or requirements and a special investigation is necessary for each before the best type and characteristics of drive can be determined upon."
"In the selection of hydroelectric units, the operating speed of the turbines should be so chosen as to give the most efficient results under the varying conditions of operation. When the head of water is constant, the choice, unless modified somewhat by the necessary synchronous speed of the generator, should ordinarily be the speed at which the turbine will operate with the highest efficiency with the normal condition of load."
"Reviewing American practise in the use of relay protective devices for electrical generating, transmission and distributing systems, there appears to have been no material change in the construction or commercial application of this class of apparatus in a considerable period of years. Such improvements as have been made relate principally to mechanical details for increasing the reliability of operation and maintenance of adjustment of relay apparatus. Recently, in response to demands for modifications of the electrical characteristics of time limit overload relays, certain changes have been made in existing types of relays, and in addition a new type of relay has been introduced. These developments have tended to greatly increase the facilities for obtaining selective action between different relays in stations where such operation of relays is desired."
"The object of this paper is expressed briefly in the title. The localizer is a special type of relay which is connected to the current transformers of each feeder. When an accidental contact or arc occurs between one phase and ground on any feeder, the localizer of that feeder lights a signal lamp and sounds an alarm in the switchboard room."
"In testing samples of sheet iron to determine whether or not the material is suitable for the specific purpose for which it is intended, it is desirable to know the core loss in a unit volume of the material. The total core loss obtained may be separated by well known means into hysteresis and eddy losses or the total core loss without separation may be used as a measure of the quality of the material."
"I am not going to discuss the question of the practicability of steam railroad electrification. That is not a matter at all within my province. That is a matter that has to be decided by those great captains of industry who are in control of the vast transportation companies in this country from the Atlantic to the Pacific. But it is reasonable, as a central station man, that I should assume that the electrification of steam railroads has come to stay, that the work done by the two premier trunk lines centering in New York is a sufficient indication of what we may expect in the future. I am not in sympathy with an agitation to force the steam railroads in this country to electrify. That is a question of the provision of the capital necessary for the purpose, and that question must be taken up and settled by those who are responsible for the operation of the railway properties. Nor am I going to discuss what might be termed the technique of the electrification of steam railroads; that is, the special system that should be used, whether it should be done with one class of current or another, or one pressure or another. The system finally decided on must be the one which fills conditions of railroad operation, and at the same time renders it possible for the railroad company to take advantage of the sources of energy supply already existing, as the railroad demand is only about 15 to 20 per cent of the total demand for energy in any community. That amount of energy which the railroads require to operate their properties is really the thing that should turn them to central station men for assistance, and I speak as a central station man."
"The purpose of this paper is to develop a complete vector analysis of single-phase induction motor performance as the basis for an accurate circle diagram applicable to motors of even the smallest commercial sizes. To accomplish this, it will be necessary to derive mathematically correct formulas or graphical construction for several quantities and relations which have been treated very loosely heretofore. Of these the most important are 1. The value of the secondary no-load current, as reflected in the primary. 2. The construction of the current circle. 3. The revolutions per minute."
"In order to induce an electromotive force in electrical machinery some sort of excitation must always be provided. In direct-current machines an e.m.f. is induced in the armature conductors by their motion across a stationary magnetic field. This is sometimes also the case with alternators, although it is more usual that the field is revolving, so that the magnetic flux travels past the armature conductors, which are stationary."
"The Institute Committee on Education was reorganized last November as it was impossible for the original chairman to serve. At the meeting held at that time, it was decided to study the status of vocational education, that subject being at the present moment of paramount interest to the industrial interests of the country. The time available has been so short that it is impossible to present more than a preliminary report of progress, but this report may possibly be of sufficient interest and value to warrant future committees of the Institute in continuing the work."
"Motors have been used in paper mills for the last twenty years and have been applied with success to every machine used in the process of making paper. By means of motors it has been possible to study the power requirements of various machines and much useful information has been obtained for the manufacturer of the paper, of the machine, and of the motor. As far as the writer knows, very little of this information has been published and it is the intention of this paper to set forth facts that have been observed and state the possible laws that may be deduced from these facts. This paper is confined to the finishing department of the paper mill and more particularly to the motor drives for three types of paper calenders."
"Never in the history of this country has there been such a great arousing of public opinion, such an arousing of interest of the people generally, in the agriculture of the country. We are commencing to appreciate that while in the early years of the past century two-thirds of our people were engaged in the producing business, producing food and clothing for the people, now but one-third are so engaged. And it also seems to be pretty clearly demonstrated that the average earning of the average farmer has netted too small a return for his labor. In many parts of the country, what he did earn was earned at too great a personal sacrifice — labor for long hours and no recreation. Plainly speaking, we have wakened up to the situation that though the yearly crop figures seem to indicate an abundance, we are actually approaching the condition where demand will soon exceed supply, and in most instances the farming business is badly out of gear and needs reorganizing. It has fallen to the lot of the electrical engineer to take a hand in many matters of reorganization, and I believe agriculture now requires his attention."
"The object of this communication is to introduce a new unit of power which, if adopted, will afford a basis of comparison of all converters of energy, thermal and mechanical; and also will be international in its character, as it is merely a new multiple of the watt."
"A midwinter convention of the Institute is to be held in New York, at the Institute headquarters, February 26–28, 1913, under the auspices of the Standards Committee. This meeting will be devoted to the general subject of the rating and testing of electrical machinery and apparatus."
"The John Fritz Medal Board of Award has announced the award of the medal for the year 1912 to Robert Woolston Hunt, of Chicago, Ill., “for his contributions to the early development of the Bessemer process.”. The John Fritz Medal was established by the professional associates and friends of John Fritz, on August 21, 1902, his eightieth birthday, to perpetuate the memory of his achievements in industrial progress. It is awarded for notable scientific or industrial achievement, without restriction as to nationality or sex."
"During the past few years several instances have occurred indicating the desirability of defining the policy to be followed by Sections of the Institute in dealing with local civic affairs involving engineering questions."
"Twenty-eight years ago last May the birth of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was announced, and a constitution adopted."
"The following statement regarding the activities of the International electrotechnical Commission has been received from General Secretary C. le Maistre:"
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday, November 8, 1912."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on November 6, 1912, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grades of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"The first meeting of the Baltimore Section fo the season was hel on October 25, in the Physical Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University. The chairman, J. B. Whitehead, gave a report of the Institute Convention at Boston, and reviewed a paper by Professor Fleming on “Wireless Telegraphy,” which appeared in the London Electrician. There was an attendance of 14 at the meeting."
"Mr. E. J. Spencer, consulting engineer, announces the removal of his office to 1003 LaSalle Building, northwest corner of Olive Street and Broadway, St. Louis."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"For reasons which need not be discussed in this paper the induction motor has been adopted almost exclusively for driving rolling mills where electrical equipments have been installed. One of the most difficult problems to be solved with this type of motor when electrifying rolling mills is the speed regulation required for the merchant and hand mills, owing to the fact that this type of motor is normally a constant speed machine. It is also one of the requirements on which it is almost impossible to obtain reliable information and one which invariably leads to a great deal of discussion, not only between the electrical engineers and the mill operator, but also amongst the operators themselves. Although the principal types of mills requiring adjustable speed are the merchant and hand mills, it is occasionally necessary to run the mills rolling heavy sections at various speeds. In the latter case, however, the problem is usually fairly simple because as a rule only two speeds are asked for."
"This paper presents an account of work done in connection with the selection of a suitable high-tension insulator for a transmission line operated at 110,000 volts. It is a report of an investigation giving a faithful account of the motives calling for the same, the method adopted and used to carry out the work, and the line of reasoning followed in classifying the results obtained. It is not intended to be a criticism of any individual design or of the valuable work which has been done by others in the same direction. The problem which had to be solved was well defined, requiring no more difficult task than to select from a number of insulators the one best suited for certain predetermined conditions. From the first to the last, the question was one concerned with engineering only, in which biased opinion or partiality was to be absolutely absent. How well this problem has been solved may be judged from the following account and perhaps more so by the tangible results obtained in the years following, during actual operation."
"The object of this paper is to present for consideration certain very interesting and suggestive high frequency insulator tests recently made by the authors. These tests were undertaken to determine the availability of a certain insulator for use on a projected 38,000-volt line and resulted in a radical modification of the design. Having a strictly utilitarian purpose in view, these tests were not expanded to a point that would be desirable from a scientific point of view, although the nature of the results shows the great desirability of further research in this same field. With this explanation the plan of the tests will be understood."
"Philip Torchio: Mr. Moody states that outside reactances arc equally effective and in practice superior to reactance within the transformer. Different attempts have been made to obtain a design of such reactances that would give the best results as to economy and safety, and also meet with the operation and installation requirements in stations. Mr. Moody gives in Figs. 4 and 5 views of a drum-wound reactance of large capacity. I desire to describe a design of reactance which has certain important features that might be of interest to the Institute members."
"John W. Lieb, Jr.: The Institute owes a debt of gratitude to our distinguished fellow member from Chicago, who has presented such a vast and important economic proposition so lucidly and convincingly, and who has come before us and with such frankness and without reserve, has given us the benefit of the experience of his company, and of the advantages which have accrued to it from his far sighted and economical administration."
"I was fortunate in being able to make the Panama trip as one of the A. I. E. E. party which sailed from New York last January 17th, joining the New Orleans contingent upon our arrival at Colon January 25th. Here we were greeted by the receiving party composed of Colonel Seibert, a member of the Canal Commission and in charge of the Atlantic Division of the work, Mr. Schildhauer, the electrical and mechanical engineer of the Commission, and Messrs. Cornish and Kratz, engineers of the Canal Commission."
"Carl Hering: I am very glad to see that Mr. FitzGerald emphasized the fact that the cost of the energy is not the principal item in an electric furnace; so many people seem to think that it is; the cost of the electrodes, the cost of the furnace, the saving of labor, the better quality of the product, etc., should also be considered. If the product is more valuable you could stand a greater cost, and if the electric furnace should save labor, a very little labor cost will pay for much energy. Mr. FitzGerald speaks of using fuel heat in conjunction with electric heat. It seems to me it is better to use them in series than in multiple, to use electrical terms, that is, not to use them simultaneously, but to preheat with fuel and then get the higher temperatures by electric heat; the heat absorbed b y preheating the metal will be found to be quite a large part of the total. Connecting carbon electrodes together, to avoid butts, gets over some of the electrode trouble, but on the other hand that junction is liable to break, allowing the butts to drop on to the bath, and to get those butts out of the bath is sometimes a very serious matter."
"Clayton H. Sharp: Speaking of the paper by Mr. Edwards, the author gives a curve of corrections for the alternating-current voltmeter as used in checking the voltages on the life testing rack. He emphasizes the importance of that correction curve. I do not think he emphasizes it quite enough and I doubt if a laboratory standard voltmeter alone, even though carefully checked, is quite sufficient to maintain the very high degree of accuracy which is called for in the measurement of life testing voltages. One-tenth of one per cent on the life testing voltage will make several per cent difference in the life of the lamp, and may have very serious commercial results under certain circumstances; so that in all lamp testing, the most important thing is the accurate determination and checking of these voltages. No single method is sufficient, but rather, various methods must be used and checked against each other. For instance, in our own laboratory, we use a multicellular electrostatic voltmeter with a mirror and scale, a method introduced by Dr. Kennelly some years ago. This is used as a transfer instrument to check directly against the potentiometer', so that the chances of errors of the instruments themselves are as nearly as possible eliminated. Other instruments are used in the same way."
"George D. Shepardson: Attention is called in the paper to the irregularities in the oscillograph curves at the values 332 cycles and 1292 cycles. I examined that “dimple,” as it is called, with considerable interest, and found two possible explanations for it. In both cases the dimple occurs where the diaphragm is at the greatest distance from the magnet. The first explanation which occurs is that the diaphragm is there in a comparatively weak field where the diaphragm is more free to vibrate in its own natural periods. Another more plausible explanation is that the actuating current in this case is several hundred times greater than the normal current. Now, that means, if we refer to the equation which is given here for the performance of the diaphragm, a very strong m.m.f., due to the current in the coil. At the “dimple,” the current in the negative or demagnetizing direction becomes dominant and neutralizes the m.m.f. due to the permanent magnet; as the current passes the critical value, its pull becomes positive, being proportional to the square of the current, and thus causes the “dimple” at the extreme value. I think this second reason is much more plausible than the first, that is, that it is the m.m.f. of the current overcoming and reversing the permanent field."
"W. H. Pratt: Dr. Agnew's paper tells about the usual procedures in making a wattmeter for high current measurements, by stranding the conductor. Now, stranding the conductor must necssarily be done in a very careful manner, otherwise troubles will be encountered, but it performs two functions; it prevents the formation of eddy currents due to the field of the current coil itself, and it also prevents the formation of eddy currents due to induction from the moving coil. In an instrument in which you are going to get the highest possible sensibility it would seem that this should be taken account of. I see no reference to this in the paper."
"Clayton H. Sharp: Regarding the last statement of Dr. Wenner, in his abstract of the paper by Messrs. Agnew and Silsbee, I find it rather surprising, inasmuch as the identical method for testing current transformers, with the exception of the vibration galvanometer detector, has been in use in our laboratory for two or three years, and a description of it was presented to the convention of the Institute three years ago, I think, at Frontenac. The method is absolutely identical with the one described in the TRANSACTIONS of the Institute, to which I refer, and we included a satisfactory detector, so that I do not see how in presenting a description of this method the statement could be made that no satisfactory detector was at hand. It was indicated at that time."
"F. P. Cox: Taking up the paper on hot-wire instruments first, it seems to me that there are limits to the use of this instrument, and yet there are occasions and circumstances where this particular type of instrument is better suited than any other type. For the measurement of low voltages, and particularly for the measurement of circuits of high frequency, I think we must all agree that it has no peer. But beyond those particular fields, it seems to me that its usefulness is rather limited, and limited, indeed, by the very reason that Mr. Pierce mentions, its high energy loss, which, for the 2000 ampere meter mentioned for the voltage given would come to 600 watts, which would be quite out of all reason. I would also mention, not from my personal experience, but a statement that I have very direct from some wireless people, that when you use it on the very high frequencies, it is desirable to use an air transformer rather than a shunt. I cannot give you any figures at all on that, but Mr. Price, who was with Fessenden, at Brant Rock, had very considerable experience with it, and strongly recommended the use of air transformers, in place of shunts, for high frequency."
"Albert F. Ganz: In electrolysis surveys it is important to measure the currents flowing on pipes. The most common method used for this measurement is to treat part of the pipe length as a shunt, and to measure the drop across this shunt with a sensitive millivoltmeter, and then to compute the current from the measured drop and from an assumed resistance of the included pipe length. The methods which Dr. Hering gives in his paper for measuring pipe currents involve essentially the actual measurement of the resistance of a length of pipe, which is part of a piping system. These methods are in fact special cases of a general method based on Kirchhoff's first law, namely, that the sum of the currents flowing towards a junction point is equal to those flowing away from the point. This principle has been used before for measuring pipe resistances, and is mentioned on page 67 of the American edition of Dr. Michalke's book on “Stray Currents from Electric Railways” published in 1906. For a number of years I have also used in special cases what is practically the last modification of the method described by Dr. Hering in the second paragraph of page 1156. In carrying out the method I have used the connections shown in Fig. 1 of this discussion."
"William J. Mowbray: It is somewhat presumptuous for me to congratulate Mr. Ingalls on this paper, but I will presume to do so, because I think that I can claim being the originator in the United States of the rotative watt-hour test meter. Some six or seven years ago, I think perhaps it was in 1905, the Chairman of this meeting, Mr. Robinson, presented a paper entitled “The Oscillograph” at a meeting of the Institute held in New York City, and at that same meeting I had the honor of presenting a paper which disclosed for the first time the method of testing watt-hour meters with a rotative watt-hour test meter having several current and potential windings. The paper was entitled “Maintenance of Meters,” and brought in the rotative test-meter. At that time this method of testing service meters was not generally used at all having just been started in Brooklyn and New York. Boston was then using a standard resistance voltmeter and stop watch. But I see that Boston has now fallen into line, and is not only using the rotative watt-hour test-meter, but has added to the method of using it a degree of refinement that is characteristic of Boston. I congratulate Mr. Ingalls on this method which seems to be very clever and refined and just the thing for testing these large meters on fluctuating loads."
"C. M. Green: Dr. Wientraub of the research laboratory at Lynn has suggested a new use of tungsten, that is as a substitute for platinum leading in wire for rectifier tubes. I am thoroughly satisfied from experiments I have made that it will be better than platinum. The specific resistance is about one-half that of platinum, or about 5 to 6 microhms per cu. cm., while the platinum which we use at the present time is about 13 to 14 and the platinum used a few years ago had a specific resistance of 30 to 40 microhms."
"Carl Hering: It seems to me that the tests made b y Professor Ganz are very valuable, and we are fortunate to have had the benefit of his experience. But I think that to speak of voltage as Professor Ganz does in this paper, is somewhat misleading. The voltage for the electrolytic corrosion of iron is negative. Therefor it should be possible that with no external voltage at all there might be some corrosion. There are always two voltages, one at each electrode, and we generally refer to their sum, as it is difficult to separate them. The result described was perhaps due largely to “over-voltage” at the copper electrode which he used. In my opinion there is also an important mechanical effect in underground electrolysis in the form of the rate of diffusion of the liquid which does the elctrolyzing. If that liquid cannot circulate rapidly there will be much less electrolysis than if it can, and it therefore seems to me that this effect of the circulation of the liquid through the soil is an important factor in determining whether the corrosion will be bad or not; it must also have a very decided effect on the voltage. Professor Ganz says nothing about the inside of the pipe and whether the results there are the same or not."
"L. F. Harza: The author has opened up for discussion one of the most important and by no means the most simple problem of hydraulic engineering with which the modern electrical engineer is compelled to deal if he is engaged in hydroelectric work."
"Answering the criticism of the high slip (and consequent low efficiency) at full speed, Mr. Cheney stated that where the period of full speed running is long it will be advantageous to short-circuit the motor secondary at the brushes by means of switches. It is extremely doubtful whether any simple and wholly reliable method can be obtained whereby contactors (or other forms of switches) can be used to short-circuit the rheostat automatically when the liquid rises to its maximum level."
"E. M. Hewlett: I am naturally interested in the development of the suspension insulator, which I first brought before the Institute in 1907, at the Niagara Falls meeting. The suspension insulators in their present form are giving excellent service at 110,000 volts and 140,000 volts. Having increased the radius of distribution to more than twice that practicable with the 60,000-volt pin insulator, which seemed to be the limiting factor, we learn from the operating engineers that these insulators are giving satisfaction. The step to 110,000 volts was made with less line trouble than the previous step, due to the higher mechanical and electrical safety factors."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
