"An artificial aerial telephone line 800 km. (500 miles) and 2 wavelengths long, is described, and a series of tests upon it is reported, under three terminal conditions at the receiving end, and with about 1.7 volts of e.m.f., alternating at 760 ∼, impressed at the sending end. The results obtained are compared with those deducible theoretically, and they are shown to support the regular hyperbolic-function theory."
"High-voltage alternating current is rectified by using the Lemp synchronously rotated commutator and the coronas produced by the rectified current are used to cause the removal of suspended matter from gases. The differences between the wattage-volt curves for the positive and negative coronas are discussed. The sparking potential difference between a negative and a positive corona discharging wire and a surrounding earthed cylinder is described and an application is made to the problem of electrical precipitation. The negative corona is found to be much more suitable for this purpose. For the same voltage the positive corona is slightly greater. Increasing the air velocity within small limits does not greatly affect the sparking potential of a positive corona. It increases the sparking potential of the negative corona very appreciably."
"The investigation of the influence of pressure on corona formation described in the second paper of this series is extended with larger apparatus so as to include a wider range of pressure and diameter of conductor. The results show that the influence of pressure in this extended range are in substantial agreement with the relation expressed in the formula suggested by Peek. A few observations were also made on the influence of temperature within the range 5 deg. to 55 deg. cent., and these observations are also in accord with the empirical relation mentioned. Observations with carbon dioxide as a gas indicate that the critical corona intensity is independent of the absolute density of the gas, but depends on the number and spacing of the molecules in accord with the theory of secondary ionization. A short discussion of the results in the light of the theory of ionization by collision is also given."
"Air at the surface of small wires has an apparently greater strength than air at the surface of large ones. It has been found that the breakdown gradient may be expressed $g_v = g_0\\left(1+{k \\over \\sqrt{r}}\\right)$ This means that at breakdown the gradient is always constant and equal to g0, at k √r cm. from the conductor surface, independent of the size of the conductor. The explanation seems to be that energy is necessary to start rupture and that, therefore, rupture can not start at the surface, but only after the surface gradient has been increased to gv, in order to store the rupturing energy between the conductor surface and k √r cm. away in air, where the gradient is go. Theoretically g0 should vary directly with the air density, or $g_0^{\\prime} = \\delta g_0$ If the energy theory is true the energy storage distance should also vary with δ or energy storage distance = Φ (δ) k √r. This has been found to be the case, that is, ${\\rm Energy\\ storage\\ distance}\\ = k \\sqrt{r \\over \\delta}$ Therefore gv docs not vary directly with δ but $g_v = g_0 \\delta \\left(1 + {k \\over \\sqrt{\\delta_r}}\\right)$ The effect has been found to be the same whether δ is varied by change of pressure, or temperature (over range where there is still no chemical change due to temperature). According to the above theory if the wires were spaced very close together, so as to interfere with the free energy storage distance, that is, in the order of k √r cm., it would be expected that gv would increase in value in order to store sufficient energy to start rupture in the limited distance. It has been found that the gradient begins to increase at a spacing of 2 k √r cm. and, within the limits of the tests, gv values as high as 200 kv. per cm. or 500 kv. per inch have been reached. Spheres were used in these tests as it is impractical to adjust cylinders at small spacings. The electron theory may also be nicely applied to the above when the distance k √r may be thought of as the “accelerating distance.”"
"The discussion of a new and but slightly tested method of operation of transmission lines should first deal with the fundamental questions: Has the method large advantages? Is its cost low? Is it reliable? In the present paper, the aim has been to discuss from the above points of view a method of control of transmission lines by means of synchronous motors. Advantages. The obviously great advantage is offered of steady voltage at all places and under all conditions of load. This is in sharp contrast with practically all modern transmission systems, where the voltage at some part varies with every change in load. Cost. As the carrying capacity of a transmission line can be doubled or trebled by this method of control, the saving in line construction will in many cases more than offset the cost of the additional machinery required. Reliability. Although loaded synchronous motors are often regarded as an unreliable part of a transmission system, the objection does not apply to unloaded synchronous condensers, and the new method is stated in the paper to be more reliable than the usual method of operating transmission lines. By increasing the economical distance of transmission, this method would hasten the growth of the extensive high-tension networks which are already spreading over large sections of the country. The advantages and disadvantages of the new method are summarized at the end of the paper, and sample lines are worked out."
"Equations for length of conductor, span, tension and sag are derived on the basis of a flexible elastic conductor. These equations contain functions of Φ, the angle of bending of the curve in which the conductor hangs, and a constant. The constant is eliminated in two ways leading, (a), to the characteristic ratios of the elastic and non-elastic catenaries, (b), to three equations which give the values of tension, length of conductor and sag in terms of each other. Numerical values of the characteristic ratios of the simple catenary are tabulated for angles less than sixty degrees. By means of this table problems based upon the theory of the non-elastic catenary may be solved readily. The characteristic ratios of the elastic catenary are reduced to more simple approximate forms involving the characteristic ratios of the non-elastic catenary. The equations which give the exact values of the ratios of the elastic catenary are too complicated to use. The results of tests on an experimental span approximately two hundred feet long are given in two tables and these values are compared with the theoretical values based on the non-elastic catenary."
"The engineer of today traces his ancestry along two distinct lines; one practical, the other theoretical. The development of the modern type of engineer has been along a great variety of special lines; even college courses and degrees have reflected this tendency towards specialties. As a result there is no united engineering profession, but instead a variety of engineering professions. This lack of unity has prevented the engineering profession from exerting its proper influence in the solution of economic problems, and has also prevented the profession having the standing that it ought to have among the learned professions. Colleges and technical schools will undoubtedly be effective in introducing this desirable unity, but the process will of necessity be a very slow one. Suggestons have been offered in the past for the formation of an American engineering society which would include all kinds of engineers. For very many reasons this has always been found impracticable. A suggestion is here offered for the formation of an American Engineering Association in which there would be no personal membership, but in which present national engineering associations would participate by electing representatives annually. No business, commercial or trade organizations would be included."
"Last year the Educational Committee presented a report outlining the educational conditions in the country and illustrating the general statements with the results of studies of typical schools and of the laws relating to vocational education. Last year's committee recommended the continuation of this work and in pursuance of the suggestion the present committee assigned to its members the details of the program. The results are given herewith in a brief series of papers relating to several phases of the subject."
"The idea of a national association of corporations maintaining or desiring to establish educational courses for their employees grew out of the experience of The New York Edison Company's commercial school. This company has for some years conducted free technical courses out of working hours at which attendance was optional, but the business-getting end of the industry had received little attention. In organizing a school for its salesmen the company found an enormous task on its hands. Being desirous of having the best salesmen possible, it was willing to spend large sums to perfect educational courses. A thorough canvass of existing practise in training employees for effective service was made and many corporation schools were visited. On the basis of these studies an educational system involving lectures by experts and examinations based thereon was inaugurated, and proved successful from the start."
"Vocational Education is a term which has so wide a scope that in the following brief report certain limitations will be established which will, it is hoped, tend to give a larger value to the statements made in it. The first limitations is to consider only those kinds of vocational education which would be certain to be of direct interest to members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Having some doubt as to how much vocational and professional education overlap, and realizing that the general character and purpose of regular engineering courses, and, for that matter, of manual training and trade school courses, are quite well understood, the writer has decided to further limit the scope of his section of this report to information regarding education offered and made available to men whose employment is in or closely related to engineering industries. He does this with a certain amount of regret, believing there are points of interest and matters worthy of discussion which might be noted in regard to various institutions in the vicinity of Philadelphia which cannot be referred to. Among other things he has in mind the engineering courses at Drexel Institute, which have been operated with increasing success for many years, although nothing has ever been put into print regarding them, except that which appears in the regular printed circular. They are laid along lines somewhat different from those found in university courses on the one hand, and are quite different from courses in trade or industrial schools on the other. Those who operate them believe they fill a distinct place in engineering education and have a merit that has not been widely recognized mainly because no publicity at all has been sought for them."
"Vocational training in that great section west of the Rocky Mountains may be said to be at present an undertaking still in embryo. Largely its sphere of action is concerned with preparing young men for engineering training in order to aid in the great constructive era which is now under way in the Far West. The best of these institutions may be at once pointed out as being those in which sufficient interest has been aroused to establish local branches of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers — such, for instance, as the University of California, Berkeley, Cal.; Colorado State Agricultural College, Fort Collins, Colo.; University of Colorado, Boulder, Colo.; Montana State College, Bozeman, Mont.; Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, Ore.; University of Oregon, Eugene Ore.; Stanford University, Stanford University, Cal.; Throop Polytechnic Institute, Pasadena, Cal.; State College of Washington, Pullman, Wash.; University of Washington, Seattle, Wash."
"In dealing with the subject of the Pennsylvania Railroad Apprentice Schools, certain explanations are necessary, inasmuch as this system of schools has been developed on a plan somewhat different from those maintained by most other large industrial or transportation corporations."
"Since line time may be said to be the only stock in trade of a long distance telephone company, and the outside plant involves almost the entire cost of such a system, it is inconsistent with the highest commercial efficiency to limit the expenditure for office switching equipment if such expenditure will facilitate operating or transmission efficiency to even a very small degree. The personal equation in establishing long distance switches by operators is a potent factor determining the efficiency of a long distance system; therefore, any equipment that will reduce this indeterminate element — regardless of electrical complexity, if operative and dependable — is fully warranted. This paper, among other things, describes equipment for eliminating the through operator at intermediate switching offices heretofore used in establishing switches where the service cannot be made over direct lines, or where the traffic offered does not warrant direct line service being provided; however, maintaining all the operating and traffic advantages of direct trunk line service. The function of the through operator is performed by apparatus in semi-automatic control of terminal operators. Equipment is described for enabling connections to be established in automatic local exchanges from distant points — reserving all the normal uses of the toll lines — and providing means for checking and supervising the distant operators thus having access to the local exchange subscribers. Equipment is described for enabling a toll operator to call subscribers directly in a distant manual local exchange via the “B” board, without disturbing the toll operator at the called exchange, though such service is subject to the latter's supervision; however, not restricting or modifying the normal uses and operation of the toll line."
"A method of obtaining oscillograms of the charging current of a ten-foot (3 m.) length of wire is described. The method is to multiply this charging current — which is of the order of 0.005 amperes — by 100, by passing the current through the primary of a 1 to 100 milliampere current transformer, the secondary of which is closed through an oscillograph vibrator. The paper contains a series of oscillograms obtained by this method, showing the wave form of the charging current of wire surrounded by corona. These oscillograms were taken at air pressures from atmospheric to 0.13 cm. of mercury. They show the marked asymmetry in the current after corona forms, the relation between power loss and impressed voltage, the start of corona after switching, the marked difference in the results at high and low air pressures, etc."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its annual report for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1913."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The plans for the Annual Convention of the Institute to be held at the Hotel O-te-sa-ga, Cooperstown, New York, during the week of June 23, are nearly completed. President Mershon has appointed the following members of the Institute Convention Committee for 1913:"
"A suit has been brought by Messrs. Louis Duncan, Francis B. Crocker, and Michael I. Pupin against the Institute and its Board of Directors. The object of the suit is to enjoin further transfers under present procedure, and to have declared illegal the transfers already made, to the grades of Member and Fellow under the Special Section of the Constitution, which was adopted in May, 1912, at the same time as the constitutional amendments creating an additional grade of membership."
"The last of the series of five lectures on “Radioactivity” before the A. I. E. E. was given by Professor Edwin Plimpton Adams on April 16 in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York."
"A number of cases of inductive interference between power lines and communication lines have been brought before the railroad commission of the State of California for settlement, and as it was recognized that comparatively little is known as to the quantitative effect of different factors on disturbances in telephone and telegraph circuits, the railroad commission invited companies owning and operating power, telephone and telegraph lines to meet informally and discuss the question at issue."
"The 282d meeting of the Institute was held at the Fort Pitt Hotel, Pittsburgh, on April 18 and 19. The meeting was held under the auspices of the Committee on the Use of Electricity in Mines, being the first meeting held to consider subjects exclusively related to the work of that committee."
"A demonstration of the Edison talking moving pictures was given to members of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Mining Engineers, and American Institute of Electrical Engineers, in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Friday evening, April 4, 1913."
"The Board of Directors of the Institute held its regular monthly meeting on Wednesday, April 9, 1913."
"The following were transferred to the grade of Fellow of the Institute at the meeting of the Board of Directors on April 9, 1913."
"The March meeting of the Baltimore Section was a smoker, held at Wegner's Restaurant, on March 28. There were 21 present, and the chairman, Dr. J. B. Whitehead, presided. Mr. J. B. Scott gave a talk on “Problems of a Consulting Engineer.” Mr. Scott spoke particularly of the ethical questions encountered by the engineer. A general discussion followed."
"A meeting of the University of Arkansas Branch was held on March 5. A paper written by Mr. L. R. Hulse, 1912, who is with the General Electric company, was read by Mr. G. W. Watkins. Mr. W. H. Wolf read an Institute paper on the determination of commutator losses, and Mr. W. E. Kennedy read an account of the construction of the White River dam for the power house near Branson, Mo."
"D. C. and Wm. B. Jackson, consulting engineers for electric and allied properties, on April 5 moved their Boston office from 84 State Street to new quarters at 248 Boylston Street."
"Alfred T. Ziegler, Associate of the Institute, died at his home in Pittsburgh, Pa. of pneumonia, on November 13, 1912, after an illness of only a few days. Mr. Ziegler was born May 6, 1882. He entered the service of the Central District and Printing Telegraph Company in 1900, in the installation department, and was transferred to the engineering department in 1903. He was elected an Associate of the Institute August 14, 1908. In the following year Mr. Ziegler was appointed equipment engineer of the company, and occupied this position at the time of his death."
"General Theory of Commutation. Criterion of good commutation with respect to the neutral theoretical line, by Mauduit."
"The following accessions have been made to the library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The paper discusses the desirability of mining loads for central stations from the view points of both the mine operators and central station operators. The power supplied to a mine from a central station is used, in general, for haulage, hoisting, ventilation, coal cutting, pumping, tipples, machine shop, blacksmith shop, and general lighting. The power required for each of these services is briefly analyzed, and the types of motors for different services is indicated. The second part of the paper relates to rates for power supplied, and the various methods of rate making, such as flat rates, maximum demand system, flat rate with fixed charge, etc., are analyzed. The effect of power factor on rates and the methods of measurement of load are also considered. The paper concludes with some general suggestions in regard to power contracts."
"The requirements of a railway load are of such a character that electricity can in many instances be profitably sold at a price, delivered to the substations, of less than one cent per kw-hr. It is only as a consequence of the enormous growth of the electricity supply business during recent years and the attendant advance in respect to the decreased cost and increased efficiency (brought about by progress in the art and scientific administration) that such low prices have become profitable. A situation has thus developed which renders it no longer of interest to railways to concern themselves with the large capital outlays associated with the manufacture and transmission of electricity. Their concern is merely with the price at which they can contract for the electricity to be delivered on their property; with the relatively small outlay which they will incur for substations and for the distribution system; and with the relatively large capital outlay for electric locomotives and for the electric equipment of motor-car trains. The predominating item in the capital outlay is that for rolling stock and against this outlay a credit can equitably be allowed since the replaced steam equipment can be used up on non-electrified divisions. In other words, in making up its budget for new rolling stock, a railway engaged in electrifying its system by divisions, will in each successive year devote a greater sum to the purchase of electrically-equipped rolling stock and a lesser sum to the purchase of equipment for steam operation. Consequently in investigations undertaken with a view to comparing the cost of electric operation with the cost of steam locomotive methods, the chief items involved relate to operating expenses and to the annual charges associated with the capital outlay for substations, distributing system and rolling stock. Before this situation had materialized, a considerable handicap to undertaking the electrification of divisions of railways consisted in the enormous capital outlays which the railways would have been obliged to incur in putting down plant for manufacturing their own electricity and in the low efficiency of such a plant when employed for the sole purpose of providing a widely fluctuating load. Under these conditions the true economic field for railway electrification was of a restricted character. Under the altered conditions, however, it can often be conclusively demonstrated that electric operation is economically superior to steam locomotive operation, even for divisions where the traffic consists of an irregular and sparse service of freight and express passenger trains."
"This paper outlines the steam railroad conditions in the West and gives an idea of some of the results which would occur with electric operation of the steam railroads. One important point brought out is the characteristic of the electric locomotive to operate overload for short periods and thus be able to haul heavier freight trains over the undulating grades on most steam railroads than is possible with a steam locomotive. The data given showing the distribution of steam railroad engine service show that it is possible to keep a steam locomotive in service only a small portion of its time, which would not be the case with electric locomotives, which have no fire boxes or boilers to be cleaned out. In the example taken, it is shown that only about half as many locomotives would be required to handle a given traffic by electric operation as by steam operation. A method of analyzing the comparative operating expenses and fixed charges of trunk line railroads by steam and electric operation is given in a very complete manner. While the financial showing made for electric operation is good, attention is called to the fact that the most important objection to the electrification of steam railroads is the heavy first cost. Also it is shown that the purchase of power from central station power companies and cöperation with them in the matter of building high-tension transmission lines, would considerably reduce the first cost of electrification."
"The fundamental basis of determining and comparing the cost of power should be, per kilowatt-hour net output. 1. Method of determining the cost of power by groups and individual items, followed by discussion. 2. Discussion of a method for providing an amortization fund from life expectancy tables for replacing and renewing building and equipment. 3. Method of determining that portion of Administration Expenses chargeable to the cost of power, followed by discussion. Equitable basis of comparing costs of power in different plants and under different conditions. 1. Definition of load factor with a discussion of its influence on the cost of power, followed by a method of correcting costs for comparative purposes. 2. “Reduction Factor” for comparing the relative values of fuel having different costs and calorific values. 3. “Reduction Factor” for comparing the relative labor costs."
"Percy H. Thomas: There are two principal conclusions or principles in these papers which we should carefully distinguish. First, where solid dielectrics are combined with air in the insulation of terminals of any kind, advantage is gained if the solid insulator is shaped in a particular way; that is, if the outline of the solid material follows what may be called a line of electrostatic force extending from the positive to the negative terminal. Second is the intelligent control of the static potential at all points between the two terminals. This principle is illustrated by the so-called “condenser” transformer terminal. Instead of applying 100,000 volts between two terminals and allowing the potential to take its own natural distribution, Mr. Fortescue inserts a number of conductors at various points between the terminals, and then impresses on each particular intermediate conductor the potential he thinks it ought to have. The net result is a gain of three or four hundred per cent in the voltage which can be withstood by the same length of air gap. The advantage comes about in this way — we get a relatively high voltage resisted by a definite air gap, when the fall of potential is distributed equally through the whole length of the air gap. By devising some scheme which will make every portion of the air gap work to its maximum limit, we succeed in getting the greatest effectiveness that is possible out of the available separation."
"The science of radioactivity has now reached a stage in its development at which we can speak of it with a good deal of confidence. Among those who feel a keen interest in the recent developments of science, but who have not had time to follow them in detail, and it is to such that I was asked to address these lectures, there is a rather prevalent feeling that the discoveries in this branch of physics and chemistry have been of a revolutionary character. One often hears the opinion expressed that the discoveries in radioactivity have completely overthrown many of the theories that we had come to look upon as firmly established. In particular, I have often been asked about the validity of the principle of the conservation of energy — the fundamental principle of the physical sciences — in the light of the phenomena of radioactivity. Can we still build upon that principle? What I shall attempt in these lectures is to show how far our old notions of the constitution of matter are still valid, what modifications we must make in them, and where the physical sciences stand at present in the light of the discoveries that have been made during the 17 years that have elapsed since the discovery of radioactive phenomena. I hope to succeed in showing you that the results that have been obtained are much more constructive than destructive in their effect upon our views as to the constitution of matter. Instead of being revolutionary in their tendency they lead, viewed in a certain way, to a logical development of the physical sciences; for these discoveries give us information about the interior structure of the atom about which everything was largely conjecture. We are at only the beginning of what is bound to lead to a much fuller conception of atomic structure. The foundation for it has been built up, and it is this foundation that I wish to describe to you."
"The 289th meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, December 12, 1913, at 8:15 p.m."
"Volume 1 of the Index of the Transactions of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, covering the years 1884–1900 inclusive, has been completed by the Indexing Transactions Committee and is now ready for distribution. Volume 2 of the Index, covering the decade 1901–1910, has already been issued. A copy of Volume 1 has been sent to each member to whom Volume 2 had previously been mailed. Both volumes of the Index will be sent gratis to any other member of the Institute who makes application to the Secretary."
"The following description of this library is written with the hope of influencing the members of the Institute to make greater use of it. Of those persons who now avail themselves of its privileges, a very small number is to be found in the membership list of this society. It is hoped and believed that this is due to ignorance of the great value and unique character of the contents of its shelves and of their availability. If such be the case, the remedy is publicity."
"The many inquires which have been made regarding the reasons for the formation of the Electric Power Committee and the work which it intends to accomplish, make a statement regarding it appear desirable."
"As provided in Section 18 of the Institute by-laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1914, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than fifty members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1914. For the convenience of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available."
"In the Procedings for May, 1913, an account was given of the organization of the Joint Committee on Inductive Interference, authorized by the Railroad Commission of the State of California to make investigations into inductive disturbances in telephone and telegraph circuits, as a basis for future regulations of the commission."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday, November 14, 1913, at 3:30 p.m."
"The 288th meeting of the Institute was held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Friday evening, November 14, 1913."
"Name Former address. N. H. Ledford, Chamber of Commerce, El Paso, Texas."
"Sir William Henry Preece, K. C. B., F. R. S., Hon. Mem. A. I. E. E., former Engineer-in-Chief and Electrician of the British Post Office, one of the highest authorities on telegraphy and telephony, and a pioneer in wireless telegraphy, died at Carnarvon, North Wales, on November 6, 1913. Sir William Henry Preece was born February 15, 1834, near Carnarvon, and was educated at Kings College, London, also studying electricity, at the Royal Institution, under Faraday. In 1852 began his connection with telegraph work, when he entered the office of the late Edwin Clark, then chief engineer of the Electric Telegraph Company. From 1854 to 1856 he acted as assistant to J. Latimer Clark, and in the latter year was appointed superintendent of the southern district. In 1860 he was also appointed by the London and Southwestern Railroad to be superintendent of its electrical system, and in this work did much to perfect railway signaling. In 1870, the government took under its control the telegraph service of the country, and in that year Sir William, then Mr., Preece entered the Post Office service as division engineer for the South of England. Early in his career he had taken out patents for a duplex system of telegraphy. In 1877 he made a visit to the United States with Sir Henry Fischer, which resulted in the introduction into England both of “reading by sound,” and of the quadruplex system of telegraphy. In a paper on “Recent Progress in Telegraphy” in the British Association report of 1882, Mr. Preece described an experiment he had just made of telegraphing across the Solent, from Southampton to Newport on the Isle of Wight, without connecting wires, the experiment being prompted by a breakdown of the Solent cable. He frankly acknowledged at that time his indebtedness to the ideas of Professor Trowbridge."
"The Board of Examiners, at its meetings on November 11 and November 20, 1913, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grades of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"The Philadelphia Section of the Institute has issued a complete program of the meetings to be held during its 1913–1914 season. Three meetings have already been held, beginning with the Institute meeting in Philadelphia on October 13. The condensed program which follows gives the dates of future meetings and titles of papers to be presented."
"The October meeting of the Baltimore Section was held in the Physical Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University, on Friday evening, October 31. Mr. W. S. Murray, formerly electrical engineer of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad, gave an interesting talk on “The Electric Operation of Railway Tunnels and Terminals.” The talk was particularly appreciated at this time in view of the agitation in favor of such electrification in Baltimore. Mr. Murray brought out clearly both the advantages and difficulties of such electrification."
"Mr. Robert Lee Baldwin has recently resigned his position as chief of the electrical department of Burns and McDonnell, consulting engineers, of Kansas City, Mo., to become electrical engineer of the Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri, with office in Jefferson City."
"“Dynamo-Electric Machines; New Designs: I — Generators with Internal Excitation; II — Synchronous Converters”. By R. V. Picou."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"This paper will deal with controlling voltage and power factor in transmission lines by means of synchronous machines. The first part will relate to moderate voltage systems having small charging currents but large inductive loads, and the second part to systems having high-voltage transmission lines in which the charging current is considerable. The underlying principles are substantially the same in both cases."
"The object of this paper is to record the results of an investigation which has been made at the Electrical Testing Laboratories to determine the effect of electrode area on the apparent dielectric strength of insulating materials in the form of thin sheets. The following tests were made with two, similar, flat, circular, electrodes ranging from 1/64 to 6, 10, and 15 in. (0.39 mm. to 15.2, 25.4 and 38 cm.) in diameter and placed directly opposite each other: 1. On insulating cloth and thin sheet hard rubber in air. 2. On insulating cloth in air and in transformer oil. 3. On transformer oil with various spacings. 4. On air with various spacings. The results of the various tests show very conclusively that the apparent dielectric strength of insulating materials in thin sheet form is materially higher with small electrodes than with large ones. This probably applies generally to all dielectrics, gaseous, liquid and solid, although the amount of variation differs widely with different materials. The tests emphasize the need for standard specifications for testing insulating materials, especially when in the form of thin sheets. It does not seem probable that the dielectric strength of an insulating material, under all working conditions, can ever be predicted with exactness, but at least we can have standard methods of rating such materials so that a value for the dielectric strength will have the same significance to the manufacturer, the purchaser and the designing engineer."
"K. A. Pauly: We are very fortunate to have secured these valuable papers on this very important subject of central station versus isolated plants for coal mines. Many of the points brought out might readily form the subjects for separate papers. Such papers are especially valuable because they give the views of engineers, who, because of their experience, are eminently competent to deal with the subject. I do wish, however, to point out and emphasize the agreement between these three engineers whose opinions are based on actual and independent experiences, representing both sides of the question. While there are doubtless large mining companies which can and do maintain highly efficient and economical electric generating and distributing systems, it appears to me to be a foregone conclusion that in general — and this is especially true of all but the larger companies — a public service corporation should be in a position to deliver power at a lower cost than it can be produced in an isolated plant and that, in addition, the service should be much more reliable."
"C. A. Lauffer: During the past four years I have been an advocate of the Schafer prone pressure method. This method bids fair to become the universal method employed for resuscitation. During this time it has been my privilege to instruct over two thousand men in giving artificial respiration, and I have done considerable writing and speaking on the subject of artificial respiration."
"P. M. Lincoln: I do not think in our industry there is anything on which the members of the fraternity have more divergent opinions than they have on this question of power rate. It is somewhat difficult in the first place to obtain a proper conception of the items to include, to arrive at a proper power rate. Possibly the best way to get at it would be to consider the things which go to make up the ideal power rate. In starting out on this task it is very possible, in fact it is almost certain, that what may be an ideal power rate in my opinion may not be an ideal power rate in the opinion of some one else."
"Graham Bright: Mr. Jenks has given us some very interesting historical matter. In the first part of his paper he mentions the early prejudice of the operators in regard to the purchase of central station power. I think this early prejudice was justifiable, when we consider that central stations had not made any records for themselves, and the operator had no way of telling what the continuity of service was going to be. As we know, in any new industry the pioneer usually stands the cost of development while those who follow reap the benefits, and you can hardly blame those early operators for having a prejudice against the use of central station power."
"C. W. Beers: The title of Mr. Crosby's paper is apt to convey, to my mind, something misleading. It deals with the motor side of the question and leaves out the fan side of the question, and I would like to give a few points in regard to the fan operation. I have read the article by Mr. Crosby with considerable interest, as to me much of the subject matter as presented by Mr. Crosby is new. I was somewhat disappointed, however, to note the apparently small amount of attention that he paid to fans operating in the anthracite region, which, with few exceptions, require small driving power."
"Charles L. Clarke: The five papers upon education which have been read this evening relate to industrial education directed toward the improvement in efficiency of the workmen in the various industries and the minor technical men connected therewith, all generally definable as laboring men, nevertheless of widely varying degrees of intelligence and skill. Hence, it is, specifically, vocational education."
"D. B. Rushmore: I will bring up certain points of unusual interest in the situation brought forward in Mr. Summerhayes' paper on automatic substations, because of the possible large development along this line. There is such a large field of application of electric energy, and such a large field of undeveloped sources of power now awaiting the man who can reduce the cost of operation, either of application or development, that it is an interesting subject to consider."
"C. O. Mailloux: Mr. Chairman and gentlemen, I regard this paper as one of the most interesting papers that has been presented to the Institute for some time. The President has said that this is the method of raising the social status of engineers. I look upon it as a method, because I think there are many methods. I have looked forward for many years to greater cooperation among engineers. It has been one of my hobbies. There has been a tendency among engineers to segregation; the different bodies have tended to undergo a process of evolution in different directions, in many respects, in regard to their points of view, and their attitude towards public questions, and also even in regard to their ethics and their methods of professional discipline and conduct. Many engineers in the different branches of engineering realize this, and they also realize the importance of doing something to improve conditions; and various remedies to overcome the conditions that now exist have been proposed."
"F. K. Vreeland: In view of what Mr. Colpitts has just said about the values of tables III, IV and V being computed, not from the actual constants of the line given in Tables I and II, but from empirical constants derived by experiments with the line as a whole, and worked back from Table VIII; I would ask whether he can give us any information as to the agreement of these empirical constants with the actual measured constants of the line?"
"J. L. R. Hayden: The paper on electrolytic corrosion by Messrs. McCollum and Logan is very interesting by the large amount of data it gives on electrolytic corrosion under actual service conditions, that is, with the iron imbedded in the soil."
"C. F. Scott: The papers that have been presented are part of a series which have been appearing in our transactions, building up a new literature. It was, I believe, fifteen years ago when the first paper on this subject recorded a number of experiments and tests by Mr. Mershon on the lines of the Telluride Powder Company, in Colorado, and the tests were made jointly by the coöperation of Mr. Nunn of that Company, and Mr. Mershon and the company he represented. That paper presented the effect of these losses and the method of measuring them, and the success of the tests was largely owing to the ability and ingenuity of Mr. Mershon in meeting new requirements under particularly difficult conditions."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The official headquarters of the Institute during the convention will be at the Hotel O-te-sa-ga, where the technical sessions will be held. Members are requested to register at Institute headquarters on their arrival in Cooperstown. The following program has been arranged:"
"The following program of papers has been arranged for the Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute to be held in Vancouver, B.C., September 9–11, 1913, by Mr. F. D. Nims, chairman of the papers committee:"
"In view of a possible early decision in the suit against the Institute and the Board of Directors relating to the Special Section of the constitution, the following resolution was adopted at the last meeting of the Board on May the 20th:"
"Notice has been received at Institute headquarters from London that July 15 has been decided upon as the date of the dedication of the Kelvin Memorial Window. The proposal to honor the memory of Lord Kelvin by the erection of a memorial window in Westminster Abbey originated with the Institution of Civil Engineers of Great Britain early in 1912, and in order that the tribute could be world-wide, it was determined to present the opportunity to contribute to the engineers of the United States as well as those of the United Kingdom. Accordingly, various national engineering societies in this country, including the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, of which Lord Kelvin was for many years an Honorary Member, were invited to cooperate. The representatives of the Institute upon the General Committee issued a circular letter to the membership in August, 1912, in response to which contributions were received from 190 members. The total number of contributors to the general fund exceeded 1300, and the entire amount required to carry out the undertaking has been received."
"The April meeting of the Baltimore Section was held in the Physical Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University on Friday evening, April 25. The chairman, Dr. J. B. Whitehead, presided, and the attendance was 30."
"The Secretary has received from Mr. Hudson Maxim and Mr. William J. Hammer a limited number of reprints, just issued, of the very complete “Chronology of Aviation” which they originally prepared for the World's Almanac of 1911. The data embrace the essential facts relating to aerial progress. In addition to a short historical resume, the contents include tables giving altitude records, speed records, quick starting and slow speed records, passenger carrying records, English channel and other over-water flights, cross-country flights, and notable distance and duration flights. There are also statistics relating to accidents and data relative to spherical and dirigible balloons or airships, etc. Of no small interest are the tables giving the most important work of the Wright brothers. There are doubtless many of the members of the Institute who are much interested in this subject and who would be glad to obtain a copy of this interesting brochure. They can do so without charge by applying to the Secretary."
"Mr. Harry Winthrop Turner, who for the past twenty-one years has resided abroad, in England and Germany, is now connected with the General Electric Company's research laboratory, Schenectady, N. Y."
"Stephen Dudley Field, Fel. A. I. E. E., a charter member of the Institute, died at his home in Stockbridge, Berkshire Co., Mass., on May 18, 1913. Mr. Field was born in Stockbridge on January 31, 1846, and was a son of Jonathan Edwards and Mary Ann (Stuart) Field. His father, who died in 1868, was a lawyer of high, standing in Western Massachusetts. One of his uncles, Cyrus West Field, was eminent in his day as the leader in the promotion of the then doubtful enterprise of a submarine cable across the Atlantic Ocean. The other uncles, who were men of recognized ability in public affairs, were David Dudley, Stephen J. and Henry M. Field. When the first Atlantic cable was successfully laid in 1858, a telegraph office was opened in Stockbridge in the law office of Jonathan E. Field, and Henry J. Dunham, then a law student, was the first operator. Mr. Field, then a youth of 12, immediately showed his interest in the Morse apparatus with which the office was equipped, and soon became an efficient operator. This did not materially interfere with his regular studies which he pursued at the old Williams Academy and Reid Hoffman's school in Stockbridge, and at the Dutchess County Academy in Poughkeepsie, N. Y. He went to California in 1863, entering the service of the California State Telegraph Company. The routine duties of an operator were never quite congenial to him excepting as a stepping stone to the development of his inventive talent. When the Collins Overland Telegraph organized its force at San Francisco in 1865, he became a member of the British Columbia exploring party, with which he remained until it reached Lytton, B. C. Returning to San Francisco he was appointed an inspector with the San Franciso Fire Alarm Telegraph Company, and in 1872 organized the California Electrical Works. He was then free to give wider scope to his inventive faculty which had developed with his electrical experience. He had already invented a multiple call district telegraph box, and in 1878 had built and equipped a telephone line 60 miles long with 24 stations. In 1879 he designed and subsequently perfected the utilization of the dynamo for the generation of current for telegraph purposes, as a substitute for the galvanic battery. While this arrangement was comparatively simple in the case of a straight Morse circuit, the important problem of using it in combination with the quadruplex was ingeniously solved by Mr. Field, and it was this particular improvement which led to the introduction of the system by the Western Union Telegraph Company. The compactness of the apparatus compared with the batteries then in use, has effected a saving of hundreds of thousands of dollars in rentals in various commercial centers. Turning his attention to other uses of electricity, he took up the electric railway problem. Although handicapped by lack of capital, which was not readily available for a project generally considered visionary, he imported the Siemens machines required for the purpose, and built at Stockbridge his pioneer electric locomotive which was subsequently operated on a special track near his home, and publicly exhibited in August, 1880. Having demonstrated the practicability of his invention, a more ambitious project followed in the construction and equipment of an electric railway at the Chicago Railroad Exposition in 1883, where a regular fare was charged for passengers. This is believed to be the first commercial use of the invention, and thus the forerunner of the great development which Mr. Field fortunately lived to witness. Having, as he believed, fortified his position with patents, which included a railway conduit system, he saw an opportunity for introducing an improved stock printing telegraph in New York City. The speed of his stock printer, surpassing anything of the kind then in use, led to the organization of the Commercial Telegram Company and forced a general improvement in the quick distribution of stock quotations. During the three years devoted to this work, other inventors had been active in the promising electric railway field. There was a prospect of patent litigation which he might not be able to pursue to the end, and he deemed it wise to sell his patents to a combination of interests having ample financial resources. Mr. Field did not, however, abandon this line of work, for in 1887 he invented and constructed at the Eickemeyer works in Yonkers a direct-connected side-bar electric locomotive which was operated on the 34th Street branch of the New York elevated railroad. His later work embraced the construction and equipment of a 150-kilometer electric railway in Geneva, Switzerland, and the invention and installation of the first submarine quadruplex between Key West and Havana in 1911. Mr. Field's 109 electrical patents, entering into nearly every branch of the art, are beyond the scope of this memoir. The work of this great inventor has left its own record extending from his birthplace in the Berkshire Hills to the Pacific Coast, to Europe and to Cuba."
"The paper deals with the fundamental laws governing electrolytic corrosion of iron in soils. Experimental data are given showing the effect of the different factors that are most likely to influence electrolytic corrosion of buried pipes under practical conditions, such as current density of discharge, moisture content of the soil, presence of oxygen, temperature, voltage, and other factors. The effects of earth resistance, polarization, and surface film resistances are also discussed briefly, and tables are given showing the results of specific resistance and corrosion tests on a large number of soils taken from widely scattered sources, which give an idea of the order of magnitude of the values of resistance and corrosion efficiency that may be expected under average practical conditions. A number of conclusions are presented showing briefly the effect of the different variables involved and their relation to some practical aspects of the subject of electrolysis."
"The objects of this paper are; 1. To analyze the fundamental theory underlying the parallel operation of frequency changers. 2. To consider the various running conditions imposed upon the parallel operation of frequency changers. 3. To apply the theory to the operating conditions in such a manner that it is possible for the operator without technical information, to automatically obtain the correct conditions applying to synchronizing under all possible conditions of load. 4. Development of formulas applying to the phenomena in question"
"The paper outlines the principal operations carried on in a rubber factory and gives some figures on the corresponding power requirements. The crude rubber as it comes from the forest or plantation must be cleaned, thoroughly kneaded, and mixed with various ingredients to form the final compound. Rubber has a great capacity for absorption of power and is materially benefited thereby. Electrical power can be advantageously used in the working up of rubber, particularly in rolling the compound into sheets, where adjustable speed operation is productive of economies. The author concludes with a comparison of methods for obtaining adjustable speed operation and points out the desirable features which should be embodied in the control."
"This paper treats principally of methods of overcoming the difficulties attendant upon the installation of synchronous converter and battery substations in the basements of large office buildings in the down-town district of a large city. The development covers a period of fifteen years during which time the capacity of the units has been increased as many fold. The combined capacity of such substations is 42,000 kw., serving 0.81 sq. mi. (2.1 sq. km.) of area in which are many high commercial buildings with a connected load of 1,940,000 lamps (50-watt equivalent). This type of substation is divided into two classes: I — the basement type, referring to those located directly below street level, and II — the sub-basement type, referring to those located in the first or second sub-basement. Description and illustration of a typical machinery intake for a Class II substation are given, also methods and difficulties of bringing in apparatus. The air supply for the apparatus as compared with a substation above grade is next considered. A special air cleaning device is described. Description and illustration of a supply and exhaust system for ventilating the apparatus are given. The temperature of a 5000-kw. substation was lowered 11 deg. cent. by directing the exhaust air from the units. The difficulty in providing air cooling equipment for larger units for sub-basement substations has been more or less responsible for the adoption of the oil and water cooling system, particularly for the stationary apparatus, such as transformers and the regulators. The diagram and description of the oil and water piping system show how 3850-kv-a. transformers, each containing 3100 gal. (11,730 1.) of oil, are cooled. The nature of the foundation structure of large buildings limits the adaptation of the floor construction for the electrical apparatus, which is the reason for the comparatively high structural cost. The floor space required for small units of 500 kw. capacity is 0.95 sq. ft. (0.088 sq. m.) per kw., and for large units of 3500 kw. capacity is 0.54 sq. ft. (0.05 sq. m.) per kw. The plan and elevation of one of the largest and most modern substations of the sub-basement type are shown. The ultimate capacity of this substation is 16,000 kw. with a 1875-kw. battery. The floor space is 10,600 sq. ft. (985 sq. m.) and the head-room is 26 ft (7.9 m.)."
"The paper discusses the importance of obtaining the characteristic curve of the commutating-pole useful flux, especially in regard to machines designed to withstand heavy overloads. It is pointed out that this curve must not depart from the curve representing the flux required to neutralize the reactance volts of the machine by more than an amount corresponding to a reactance voltage which experience has shown can be successfully taken care of by the resistance of the brush A method of measuring the useful and total commutating-pole flux is described. The results of tests on two machines are given, together with curves showing the useful and total fluxes obtained. The importance of the ratio of leakage flux to useful flux at low saturations, in regard to maintaining and determining the ultimate point of reversal of the useful flux, is shown. An approximate formula for obtaining the useful flux from this ratio is given. An attempt has been made to analyze the magnetic leakages due to the main and commutating-pole ampere-turns and to show that the paths taken by and the dimensions of these fluxes are to a certain extent dependent on the relative values of the main and commutating-pole ampere-turns. The variation in the relative values of the main and commutating-pole ampere-turns and the absence of uniformity in the magnetic potential of the commutating pole introduces some degree of error into the formula given. To obtain a greater degree of accuracy, corrections have to be made for the varying initial leakage ratio and for the change of magnetic density existing at different points in the length of the commutating pole."
"As an outcome of the New York meeting of the Institute, last December, at which meeting were presented and discussed two papers bearing on the subject of insulator testing, the High-Tension Transmission Committee is endeavoring to draw up a “model” or “skeleton” insulator test specification, which may be approved either by the High-Tension Transmission Committee or the Standards Committee or by the Board of Directors. In pursuance of this object, the Committee has secured two tentative specifications (1) that of Mr. Peek, written from the point of view of the expert tester and scientist, and (2) that of Mr. Sanford, written from the point of view of the manufacturer. The Chairman of the Committee has prepared a single specification (3) from these two, in the light of comments thereon received from the High-Tension Transmission Committee and others, and has endeavored to embody in a single specification, the best features of the other two. These three specifications follow."
"Specification for Suspension Type Insulators General: (a) These specifications are intended to cover the design, quality and manufacture, including inspection and testing, of porcelain insulators, cat. No (b) The operating voltage will be (c) There will be required approximately suspension insulators, each of which shall consist of units. (d) There will be required approximately strain insulators, each of which shall consist of units."
"This specification gives the conditions of tests and inspections which are found best to secure reliable high-tension line insulators for use under the ordinary conditions of power transmission work. It is expected to serve as a skeleton or model specification and may be supplemented by such additional matters as may be appropriate for any particular case."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The two hundred and seventy-ninth meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held in the auditorium of the Engineers Building, New York, January 10, 1913, at 8:15 p.m."
"The sudden and unexpected illness of Secretary F. L. Hutchinson has made necessary the temporary appointment of an Acting Secretary, and at a special meeting of the Institute's Executive Committee held on December 18 in response to a call for that purpose, Mr. Ralph W. Pope was appointed to fill that office, in accordance with the following resolution: Resolved, that the Executive Committee, acting under Sections 44 and 45 of the Constitution of the Institute, hereby appoints Mr. Ralph W. Pope acting secretary during the illness of Mr. F. L. Hutchinson, in all duties devolving upon that official under the Constitution of the Institute, and authorizes him to draw and countersign all checks and drafts in payment of bills and vouchers approved by the Finance Committee and endorsed by the Treasurer as provided in Section 42 of the Constitution of the Institute. Mr. Pope's services as acting secretary are to continue until Mr. Hutchinson shall be able to resume his duties, or until other provision be made by the Board of Directors or by the Executive Committee acting for them."
"The attention of the membership is called to the modifications made last year in the method of making nominations for the various offices to be filled at the 1913 Institute election, whereby advance nominations may be made by petition so that when the official nomination forms are mailed to the membership on February 1, the names of candidates thus named in advance may appear on these forms, thereby affording the membership some guide as to the candidates who have been mentioned for the various offices."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its regular monthly meeting on Friday, December 13, 1912."
"A meeting of the U. S. National Committee was held at the A. I. E. E. headquarters, December 13. At this meeting Past-President Henry G. Stott was appointed to represent the committee and the A. I. E. E. on a special international committee, to be known as “Committee on Prime Movers,” which is to make a comprehensive study of the entire subject of prime movers, power stations, power costs, etc. The authoritative papers and discussions bearing upon these subjects contributed by Mr. Stott in the last ten years make him an authority on these subjects, and qualify him eminently to represent American practise and methods."
"Under the above title, the Illuminating Engineering Society has prepared a primer of illumination setting forth in simple and concise style the general principles to be followed in the application of artificial illumination, whether produced by oil, gas, electricity or otherwise."
"The growing use of metallic conduit for the installation of wires in buildings, and the frequent tendency to use conduits of too small interior diameter, have led the National Electrical Contractors Association to prepare data in regard to the proper size of conduit to be used in installing wire and cables. The result of the investigation of this subject by the Association is embodied in six charts showing in full size the proper sizes of conduits to be used for the installation of numerous combinations of wires and cables. These charts were officially adopted at the 12th annual meeting of the National Electrical Contractors Association."
"Aldridge, Arthur P., Operating Engineer, Dunedin City Corporation, Waipori Power Station, Waipori Falls, Otago, N. Z."
"The November meeting of the Baltimore Section was held on November 22, in the physical laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University, Chairman J. B. Whitehead presiding. There was a total attendance of 46. This was a telephone meeting, and different divisions of the subject were presented, as follows: “Toll Line Traffic,” by Mr. L. M. Clarke, traffic engineer; “Outside Construction,” Mr. L. F. Cromwell, district plant engineer; “Telephone Transmission,” Mr. H. B. Stabler, equipment engineer; and “Electrolysis,” Mr. F. T. Iddings, chief cable tester. All of these speakers were of the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company. A general discussion followed the presentation of the papers."
"A meeting of the University of Arkansas Branch was held on November 13, when Mr. L. S. Watts read a paper by Mr. S. B. Graham entitled “A Visit to the Transmitter Department of the Western Electric Company.” Mr. Graham is an alumnus of the university who is now in the service of the Kellogg Company at New York. His paper described the method used by the Western Electric Company in testing transmitters. A paper on “The Engineer's Field” was then read by Mr. W. D. Dunn."
"Mr. H. T. Plumb, formerly a professor. of electrical engineering at Purdue University, has been appointed local engineer of the General Electric Company at Salt Lake City, Utah."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The paper discusses the design of turbo-alternators with reference to the limitations imposed by very high rotative speeds and large capacities. Bolted-on rotor shafts have superseded through-shafts for very high speeds, and both the radial-slot and the parallel-slot types of rotors have inherent advantages for machines of certain capacities. Ventilation is difficult on account of the large total loss which occurs in a limited space, requiring very large volumes of cooling air at very high velocities. Various ventilating systems are described, and the effects of temperature limitations upon the design are discussed. Insulating materials are considered with reference to their mechanical strength and resistance to heat. The use of mica in various forms has solved many difficulties due to high temperature and to static discharges. The copper and iron losses of these units are analyzed; the total losses are no greater than those of low-speed units of corresponding capacity. Protection against fire within the machine is most effectively provided by doors or valves, entirely cutting off the interior of the machine from the outside air. The regulation is sacrificed to some extent, in order to limit short circuit current, by making the armature reactance as high as the design will permit."
"The industrial manager strives for three things: 1. Increased output. 2. Improved quality. 3. Decreased cost. They are the component parts of the word “dividends.” Three elements contribute to the realization of these aims: 1. Efficient labor. 2. Efficient machinery. 3. Efficient lighting. The importance of these elements can be more fully appreciated when we consider that the absence of any one of them renders the others useless. In other words, labor and machinery without light have no value."
"D. McFarlan Moore: Mr. Jones has given us a demonstration which proves the fallacy of attempting to illuminate any interior without giving very careful attention to the matter of shadows. The problems of interior illumination are generally duplex, that is, attention must be given to daytime illumination and night time illumination. There are some instances, however, when it is not desired to produce at night time the same effect as in daytime."
"John M. Hipple: The general tendency in industrial engineering is towards refinement in methods and apparatus. Only an exact knowledge of those requirements enables us to meet them successfully. The steel industry is a notable example of this condition. The making of steel requires high-power substantial machinery, the first demand on the machinery being continuity of service."
"E. D. Doyle: As has been suggested in the paper by Messrs. Sharp and Farmer, the electrostatic voltmeter should have small leakage losses. If the voltmeter has low insulation resistance, it will not hold its charge but will discharge according to the exponential law"
"J. D. Merrifield: Where I come from they sell electricity to the farmer at $50 a horse power, and he can use it for anything he pleases."
"H. M. Hobart: I consider Mr. Field's paper to be an excellent statement of the situation in regard to turbogenerators. Developments of the last few years have made it quite necessary to introduce considerable deviation from what was formerly considered the best design. This has come about largely from the necessity for better construction because of the stresses due to the large short-circuit currents, and for other reasons."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday, October 10, 1913, at 3:30 p.m."
"Name Former address N. H. Ledford, Chamber of Commerce, El Paso, Texas."
"It has been evident for several years that some modification in the methods of issuing and distributing the publications of the A. I. E. E. may soon become desirable for the following reasons:"
"The fifth annual Pacific Coast Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Vancouver, B.C., on September 9th, 10th and 11th. Owing to the peculiar business conditions prevailing on the Pacific Coast this year, the attendance was somewhat smaller than originally anticipated, but the convention was a great success, notably from the standpoint of the excellent and complete discussions made possible by considering only one paper at a session. The entertainment features were also particularly well arranged and successful. The total registration was 154, of whom one-third came from places other than Vancouver."
"The 287th meeting of the A. I. E. E. was held in Philadelphia on October 13, under the auspices of the Philadelphia Section. The technical sessions were held at Drexel Institute. Chairman A. R. Cheyney of the Philadelphia Section was the presiding officer. President C. O. Mailloux and Secretary F. L. Hutchinson attended the meeting."
"The following were transferred to the grade of Fellow of the Institute at the meeting of the Board of Directors on October 10, 1913."
"At a meeting of the Indianapolis-Lafayette Section held in Indianapolis on June 20, 1913, officers were elected for 1913–1914 as follows: chairman, O. S. More, Indianapolis; vice-chairman, C. R. Moore, Lafayette; secretary, G. B. Schley, Indianapolis; executive committee, C. F. Harding, Lafayette, Richard Fleming, Indianapolis. Mr. J. L. Wayne was appointed the delegate of the Section to the Cooperstown Convention. At this meeting a paper was presented by Professor C. R. Moore of Purdue University on “Electric Timing Devices.” Mr. O. S. More presided at the meeting, and the attendance was 17."
"Mr. W. D. Weaver has received from the French Government the decoration (violet rosette) of Officer de l'Instruction Publique."
"Francis Valentine Toldervy Lee, one of the best-known electrical engineers of the Pacific Coast, died on August 17, 1913, at Victoria, B. C. Mr. Lee was born at Winchester, England, August 28, 1870, the son of Francis V. T. Lee of Shropshire, an officer of the Queen's Own Light Infantry. His early-education was received at the Manchester Grammar School, England, and afterwards he attended the College Communal, Boulogne, France. He came to Sherbrooke, Canada, in 1887, and for the greater part of three years was in the service of the Canadian Pacific Railway as private secretary to the division superintendent. He resigned from railroad service to supplement that part of the school training that he had received abroad, with a more adequate technical training in this country. Shortly after his resignation he went to Victoria, B. C., and thence on a trip home to England, after which he returned to New York, where he entered the service of the Manhattan Electric Company in order to gain experience that would enable him to test his liking for electrical engineering. Here he came in contact with the late Dr. F. A. C. Perrine, professor of electrical engineering in Stanford University, California, and there resulted one of the strongest friendships of his life. Often a preceptor exercises a very great influence on the life and personality of a student; particularly is this true when they come as intimately in contact as did Dr. Perrine and Mr. Lee, who had now entered Stanford University and was working his way through, as secretary and general laboratory assistant to Dr. Perrine."
"I. Paper by W. Usbeck on “The economic importance of the electric operation of railroads.”"
"The following accessions have been made to the library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The design of motor car lighting apparatus begins with the choice of a satisfactory lamp equipment. This fixes the quantity of energy which the lighting system must supply at any time, and indicates the dynamo capacity to be provided. The dynamo must be geared to give its full output at the average speed reached when driving, with all lights on, in order that the battery reserve may be drawn upon only when the car is not in motion. When a battery auxiliary is used it must be connected to the dynamo when conditions are right for charging, and disconnected when the engine is at rest, to prevent discharge through the dynamo. Safety and convenience require that this action should be automatic, also that the output of the dynamo should be limited to a predetermined and safe maximum, regardless of dynamo speed. This leads to a discussion of methods devised to secure automatic control, and to the speed rating of the dynamo itself. This is limited on one hand by the weight, size and cost of slow-speed dynamos, and on the other, by consideration of wear on bearings, commutator and driving means of the high-speed type. Following this are notes on storage battery capacity, and wiring."
"A constant-speed dynamo for automobile lighting and for battery charging is to be preferred to other designs chiefly because it has the correct characteristics for its assigned work, because its efficiency is high while the wear is small, and because it is able to maintain a potential at the lamps so constant that it will even carry the lamps with the battery disconnected without injuring them. The generator and starting motor should be built as separate electric units because of the lighter, smaller, less complicated battery required, because of the greater reliability of the separate units, and because the characteristics of the starting motor (necessarily series-wound) are directly opposite to those of the generator (which is of necessity either shunt or compound-wound)."
"The relative merits of various ignition devices are discussed and the use is advocated of an induction coil operating from a constant-potential circuit in connection with a device which will limit the current at low speeds and still permit sufficient current flow at the higher speeds. A variable-contact device is used to operate the coil at its most efficient point and this eliminates to a considerable extent the necessity of manual control of the firing point. This ignition system produces a spark no matter how slowly the engine is turned over, thus lending itself particularly to electric motor starting. A lighting generator should be capable of supplying current equivalent to the average lamp load, when the car is running at a speed of fifteen miles per hour. The method of regulation advocated is a demagnetizing series coil in the battery circuit, thus maintaining constant charging current. The lighting circuit is so connected that the current to the lamps will not pass through the series coil, thus tending to maintain a constant charging current independent of the lamp load. For starting purposes two schemes are possible, namely, the use of the lighting generator as a motor, or the use of a separate motor. The separate starting motor is advocated and its characteristics are discussed."
"Induction Motor Load Losses, by H. G. Reist and A. E. Averrett. Stray Losses in Induction Motors, by A. M. Dudley. Notes on Induction Motor Losses, by R. W. Davis."
"A. E. Averrett: Regarding the separation of copper losses, there seems to be a tendency on the part of some users to want bar-wound stators on account of the ease of repair. You can make a bar-wound stator with rather deep bars, but if you have a rotor that is bar-wound also and assume that the losses are practically all in the rotor, these will disappear at synchronous speed and you will apparently have a more efficient machine than you really have, if all the losses are taken into consideration. But you can actually get the loss by taking out the rotor and measuring the impedance of the stator alone by wattmeters, which will show up the losses correctly if the tests are made carefully."
"J. M. Weed: The two papers on transformer losses are in a sense complementary to each other, but after both papers are read, there are some discrepancies apparent which need to be harmonized, and some points which still need to be brought out to clear up the subject."
"W. B. Brady: Referring to the paper by Messrs. Edgecomb and Dick, the brush manufacturers are very much interested in the subject of brush losses and we are very glad the Institute has taken up this matter. We have been working on the development of brush tests for more than six years but we have been handicapped by the lack of apparatus that would give us consistent results. Then, again, as we have developed our own apparatus the results we got w Te applicable to that apparatus and only under the exact conditions of that test. This is due to the number of variables and losses that are in a certain combination under the conditions of that test. By having these losses more definitely separated and understood we may be able to get a definite basis to make our results comparable. One of the best ways I know of is to standardize the brush testing apparatus and I hope this can be done in the very near future. It will be a decided step in brush development which will be of great assistance to engineers."
"John L. Harper: There are statements in the paper by Messrs. Foster and Knowlton which seem to warrant further consideration, reference being made especially to the first paragraph in the summary. The authors describe four methods of determining losses in each of which it will be noted a different result was obtained."
"Comparison of Methods of Loading Large A-C. and D-C. Generators and Synchronous Converters for Factory Temperature Test, by F. D. Newbury. Comparison of Methods of Making Load Tests on A-C. Generators and On Induction Motors, by E. F. Collins and W. E. Holcombe. Notes on Method of Making Load Tests on Large Induction Motors, by A.M. Dudley."
"(a) Generators and Induction Motors A. E. Averrett: I would say in regard to the results in the Collins and Holcombe paper, that I made some tests at the same time, and the results obtained with the first two motors (two 20-h.p. motors) are somewhat erratic; one of the motors was somewhat unusual, in that the rotor had a completely closed slot. We ran these tests through in a hurry and I believe the results ought to be discounted."
"Rating of Oil Circuit Breakers with Reference to Rupturing Capacity, by G. A. Burnham."
"Paul M. Lincoln: The paper of Mr. Burnham's on oil circuit breakers opens up an interesting subject. The question on the method of rating an oil circuit breaker is an important one, and is one upon which the Standards Committee, I believe, should take some action. I am prepared to accept most of the suggestions made in Mr. Burnham's paper. It is necessary to rate circuit breakers in various ways; one way to rate them is in regard to their current carrying capacity, and they must have such a rating. They must also have a voltage rating to indicate the maximum voltage of the circuit upon which they may be used."
"A. H. Armstrong: The two papers presented before the Institute at this meeting arrived at the same happy conclusion as to the benefits to be secured in the electrification of steam roads, but differ as to the means of securing this end. In other words, one paper advocates the single-phase and the other the direct-current motor. Instead, therefore, of following the usual procedure of side-stepping the question of single-phase versus d-c., I will confine my remarks to a broad discussion of this question as affecting the general subject of electrification."
"The following report is intended to outline the results attained at the recent meeting of the I. E. C., in Berlin, (September 1st to 6th, 1913) for the information of the U. S. committee-members, in advance of official reports from the General Secretary of the Commission, with respect to which official reports, this preliminary statement must of course be subordinate, and subject to amendment in detail."
"A regular meeting of the Institute will be held in Pittsburgh, April 18–19, 1913. This meeting will be under the auspices of the Committee on the Use of Electricity in Mines, in co-operation with the Pittsburgh Section. The headquarters of the meeting will be at the Fort Pitt Hotel."
"The Meetings and Papers Committee is actively engaged in preparing for the June Convention of the Institute, which, as previously announced, is to be held at Cooperstown, N. Y., during the week of June 23, 1913."
"To the Board of Directors, American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Gentlemen: This committee has counted and canvassed, in accordance with Article VI of the Constitution, the nomination ballots received for officers of the Institute for 1913–1914. The result is as follows:"
"The Midwinter Convention of the Institute was held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, February 26–28, in accordance with the program previously announced. The Convention, which was under the auspices of the Standards Committee, was successful from every standpoint and the discussion on the 44 papers which were presented was very complete, and will be of great value to the Standards Committee in formulating the proposed revision of the Standardization Rules."
"As you know, certain amendments to the Constitution of the Institute were adopted last year. These amendments had to do with the establishment of an additional grade of membership, and the modification of the requirements for the grade of Member. In connection with these amendments there was also adopted a Special Section reading as follows:"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Friday, March 14, 1913."
"The two-hundred and eighty-first meeting of the Institute was held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, Friday evening, March 14, 1913."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on March 12, 1913, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grades of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"The January meeting of the Baltimore Section was held in the physical laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University on January 24, and was devoted to a symposium on central station engineering. The following papers were presented: “Recent Problems in Central Station Engineering,” by A. S. Loizeaux; “Measurement of Power Demand,” by J. S. Cruikshank; “Methods of Preventing Interruptions to Central Station Service,” by F. E. Ricketts; “Protecting Transformer Banks.” and “Cable Temperatures,” by H. C. Louis. The papers were illustrated by lantern slides."
"A meeting of the University of Arkansas Branch was held on February 19. Mr. H. C. Lamberton presented a paper on “Opportunities for Electrical Engineers in the Field of Railway Signaling.” Mr. Lamberton has been for two years in the Service of the signal department of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company."
"Professor F. Lori — Presentation of the bust of Joseph Henry given by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute, since the last acknowledgment."
"The use of electricity in the production of anthracite is rapidly increasing, and hence, its ultimate cost per kilowatt-hour is an important factor in cheap production. An analysis of fixed charges and operating costs of small mining stations indicate that the installation of such stations by mine operators is not always the method that results in the cheapest cost for this form of power, particularly when central station service is available There are several reasons that contribute to this. 1. Present methods of producing steam at collieries are comparatively wasteful. 2. Facilities are not always present for the most economical use of steam. 3. Operating costs are usually based on the kilowatt-hour cost at the main station switchboard and transmission cost are not included, whereas in central station service the cost is net at the substation switchboard. 4. The resulting load factors in several small plants are not to be compared to the resulting load factor on one large central station. 5. The operator is apt to lose sight of the large investment per kilowatt required for the mining plant. This expenditure is not present when making use of central station service. 6. Stand-by loses form a large part of the annual operating cost of the mining plant. Careful consideration of each of the above points will indicate to the operator the most economical proposition to adapt."
"The sources of danger attending the use of electricity in mines are shocks, fires and explosions. Shocks are the electrical accidents that happen most frequently underground, the conditions there being especially favorable to the occurrence of such mishaps. Fires may be caused by leaks to ground, short circuits and blowing fuses. Injuries to electrical equipment, due to falls of roof often add to the fire hazard. Explosions may be result of the ignition of explosives, mine gas or coal dust. The paper discusses the underground conditions that are unfavorable to the proper installation and maintenance of electrical equipment and suggests, in general terms, some methods of making safer the use of electrical equipment in mines. These suggesions are finally summarized briefly under five heads. The closing paragraphs of the paper discuss electrical equipment as a means of promoting safety and mentions the telephone, the portable electric lamp, electric shot firing devices and storage battery locomotives as equipment that may be regarded as lessening the risks surrounding the underground worker."
"In this paper, the author points out the commercial aspects of purchased power, vs. the isolated plant in the bituminous coal fields of Western Pennsylvania and Eastern Ohio. The adverse conditions affecting the operation of isolated plants and the fundamental causes of high costs of power per ton of coal mines are given, and are contrasted with the advantages to the mine operation of the purchase of power when available. The characteristics of mine power business are briefly described with a view of showing the reasons why central stations can afford to make low rates for this class of business."
"The paper deals with a series of tests made on substations which supply power for driving d-c. machinery at the anthracite mines of the Lackawanna R. R. Company. A description is given of the substations and motor equipments on apparatus in the mines. The instruments used and methods employed in conducting the tests are outlined. The results of the tests are given in the form of a set of curves showing load factors, diversity factors, peaks, and characteristic load curves. The effect of the load factors and peaks on the size and type of apparatus in the substation is discussed and suggestions are made for substations to meet special conditions."
"Ralph D. Mershon: There are a number of things in connection with the paper by Messrs. Imlay and Thomas that are not clear to me, and which I would like to have Mr. Thomas elucidate. For instance, in Fig. 3 of their paper there is shown a metal band around the insulator, and it is said that the effect of that metal band is equivalent to increasing the diameter of the pin. That is not quite clear, neither is it quite clear that putting a cap on the insulator is equivalent to reducing the diameter of the pin, the opposite effect of the band."
"Henry G. Reist: The author has treated this subject so fully that it leaves even those of us who have spent a good part of our lives on this work very little to add. He has weighed the different methods of construction so carefully, accurately and fairly that there is very little room for controversy, so what I have to say will be very brief and a part of it, at any rate, will be in the way of a slight further explanation of some of the methods of construction. The author limits the size of a two-pole machine of 3600 rev. per min. with a through shaft to about 600 kv-a. That is probably near the limit, if a solid shaft is used; but by the use of a flexible shaft, that is, a shaft which allows the rotor to run above the critical speed, the limits of output may be very materially increased. This is similar to the operation of the de Laval turbine, which in starting runs through a preliminary stage where it is not quite as steady as afterward, and then gets down to a perfectly quiet state. This construction does not require so large a shaft as if the machine were operated below the critical speed, and it is possible considerably to increase the limit of size. There are today a great many machines running constructed on this plan, of from 1000 to 2000 kw. in capacity, at 3600 rev. per min."
"In this paper the writer emphasizes the steadily increasing tendency toward more highly specialized equipment for definite classes of service with resulting improvement in efficiency and operating characteristics. Mine fan applications are considered under two general heads, (a) those requiring constant speed and (b) those requiring adjustable speed drive. The necessity of selecting the proper type of motor for each case is pointed out and the statement made that in view of recently perfected methods of speed regulation, the polyphase induction motor is equally applicable for both constant and adjustable speed service. Several methods of obtaining speed control, which have been used in the past, are briefly discussed and their limitations indicated. The latest development involving speed regulation by “dynamic control” as opposed to “rheostatic control” and the striking advantages of the former in the way of strictly adjustable speeds, each constant under varying load, high operating efficiency throughout the entire range of speed reduction and the important possibilities of high power factor correction, are described. An example of net saving effected by dynamic as compared with rheostatic control is cited. For smaller fan installations, a new type of polyphase motor is described with which starting, stopping, and forward and reverse speed control are obtained by shifting the brushes. In conclusion the writer finds the polyphase motor in some one of its several forms eminently suitable for any and all fan installations, save possibly in cases where an existing direct-current system is already installed."
"The paper is devoted chiefly to a historical sketch of the West Perm system in regard to its electrical service in connection with coal mines. The first mine installation was connected to the system in 1896 and previous to that time it had been found very difficult to convince the mine operators of the advisability of central station service, as they claimed that it was not as reliable as an isolated plant. The central station service was also antagonized by the mine inspectors, who frequently prohibited central station service for certain uses, especially for fans, contending that mine ventilation was of such importance that no mining company should be dependent upon another corporation for its power for fan operation. These objections were only overcome after several years of successful operation in a large number of mines. The paper mentions a number of mine installations which have been supplied by the central station company's power and describes various difficulties that have arisen in regard to such installations and the methods of overcoming them. The growth of this business is shown by the fact that since the original installation of 120 horse power in one mine, the company now supplies power for 76 coal mines aggregating nearly 15,000 horse power, and has contracts with 10 companies for over 5000 horse power to be installed as soon as possible."
"It has been found necessary to change the dates for the series of lectures on “Radioactivity” to be given by Professor Edwin P. Adams of the Palmer Physical Laboratory of Princeton University, under the auspices of the Electrophysics Committee of the Institute, of which preliminary announcement was made in the February Proceedings. The lectures will be given at 8:15 p.m. on Wednesday evenings, March 19 and 26, and April 2 and 9, in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"The following statement regarding the work of the International electrotechnical commission has been received from General Secretary C. le Maistre: The meetings of the special committees of the I. E. C., held recently in Zurich, have resulted in considerable practical progress."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its regular monthly meeting at Institute headquarters on Friday, February 14, 1913, at 3:30 p.m."
"In the course of the conference of Section delegates held during the Boston Convention last June, a resolution was passed recommending to the Board of Directors that a sum be set aside each year to purchase, for presentation to the outgoing president, a suitable testimonial which could be retained as an expression of the appreciation on the part of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers of his services to the Institute. The resolution came before the Board of Directors at a special meeting held during the convention, and as a result of this recommendation the Board authorized the appointment of a committee to consider and report on this question. President Dunn, with the concurrence of President-elect Mershon, appointed Messrs. W. S. Rugg, chairman, Severn D. Sprong, and W. G. Carlton, members of this special committee."
"To the membership of the A. I. E. E.: In the January number of the Proceedings of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers is published a list of members transferred to the new grade of “Fellow” by vote of the Board of Directors on December 13, 1912."
"To the Board of Trustees, United Engineering Society: I beg to submit herewith the report of your Treasurer as of December 31, 1912."
"On January 22, in Tremont Temple, there was held a joint meeting of the Boston Sections of the A. I. E. E., the American Society of Civil Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Mr. Rollins, president of the Boston Society of Civil Engineers, presided, and there was a total attendance of about 225."
"A meeting of the University of Arkansas Branch was held on December 11, 1912. Professor Carnahan of the mechanical engineering department discussed “The Testing of Flue Gases,” an Institute paper was read by Mr. P. Valentine, and a paper on “The Installation of the New Cincinnati Lighting System” was presented by Mr. S. M. Snodgrass."
"On February 13, 1913, at his home in Bethlehem, Pa., occurred the death of John Fritz, the ironmaster, in his ninety-first year. He was a man who received not only honor for his achievements in the development of the iron and steel industry, but friendship and affection called forth by his fine qualities of character. He was a past president of both the American Institute of Mining Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and an honorary member of the American Society of Civil Engineers and of the American Iron and Steel Institute, and honorary vice-president for life of the Iron and Steel Institute, of London."
"Felix Benedict Herzog, Ph.D., died at the Roosevelt Hospital, New York City, April 21, 1912, following an operation for an internal disorder with which he had been afflicted. Dr. Herzog was born in New York City December 27, 1859, and was graduated from Columbia University in 1881 with the degree of A. B., LL. B., 1882, A. M., Ph. D., 1883. He was elected an Associate of the A. I. E. E., May 24, 1887, and transferred to the grade of Member July 12, 1887. He was elected a Manager the same year, serving until 1892. He was a prolific inventor, esspecially in the field of signaling devices, and at the time of his death was president of the Herzog Teleseme Company. He was active in art matters, and as a painter was a pupil of Rondel. He was also interested in photography, both technical and artistic, and was an inventor of photographic appliances. While his devotion to art had in a measure taken him out of the electrical field, he will be remembered as taking an active part in the earlier work of the Institute."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The paper discusses different devices for measuring temperatures in electrical machines and points out their various sources of error, and also the limitations of the uses of mercury and alcohol thermometers, thermocouples and resistance coils. Fluid thermometers can generally measure only surface temperatures, and temperatures of rotating parts must be measured after they come to rest, thereby introducing large chances of error due to equalization or rapid changes of temperature, slow rate of indication of thermometers, small contact between the bulb and the surface to be measured, emergent stem, etc. In the measurement of temperature by the electrical resistance method either the windings of the machine itself or fine wire coils placed in or about the windings are employed. In using the coils of the machine, the result depends upon the accuracy with which the coefficient of change of resistance of the copper with temperature is known. This method, of course, gives only the average temperature of the whole length of the winding and does not indicate the temperature of any part of the winding. Where coils of fine copper are used highly accurate measurements are possible, as the coefficient of temperature of the wire may be accurately known. The extent of the coil determines the extent to which the measurement is local. For accurate determinations, some sort of bridge for determining the resistance is required. The thermocouple is the most accurate device for measuring local temperatures, as the e.m.f. generated is a function of the difference in temperature between the junction of the wires of the couple and their free ends, and the temperature of the free ends can be accurately controlled. Thermocouples require the use of precision meters for reading their indications, and potentiometer arrangements may be applied to obtain any desired degree of accuracy. Ordinary thermometry is the simplest, quickest and least accurate method of temperature measurement, and usually applies only to surface conditions. The choice between the electrical methods of temperature measurement is largely determined by the ease of application in any particular case. The thermocouple will give the most rapid indications, although the resistance method is almost as rapid if the coil is of right proportions and is intimately applied to the parts whose temperature is to be measured."
"Electric generators are of necessity driven by prime movers and the combination must be treated as a single unit when considering the questions of ratings and capacities. The importance of the proper adaptation of the capacities is fully emphasized by the fact that there are in operation in many stations in this country, units in which the output is unnecessarily limited by a discrepancy in the ratings, in that the prime mover is either too small or too large for the generator. The latter may, for example, be designed for unity power factor, while the actual operating power factor may be 0. 8, in which case the full capacity of the prime mover can not be utilized. In the past every effort was made to adjust the ratings of the generators to the station load curves, and the result was that overload capacities of 25, 50 or even 100 per cent had to be guaranteed, usually for a period of two hours. With the growth of the generating station and the improved load conditions this practice is now becoming more and more obsolete and the units are being rated on a maximum or, more properly called, constant continuous rating, which should not be exceeded except during momentary peaks. Steam turbine units have been rated according to this method for some time past, and with entirely satisfactory results. It is also becoming quite common in connection with waterwheel-driven units, and there seems to be no reason why it should not prove to be equally satisfactory for hydroelectric plants, especially for low heads, where the waterwheel efficiency falls off rapidly as the power is reduced below the normal full load. Exceptions to this may, however, be found, as, for example, where heavy short-period peak loads must be provided for, in which case it may be advisable to select a generator having a corresponding overload capacity. For the sake of standardization it seems, however, desirable to give all generators a maximum constant continuous rating at a certain specified temperature."
"The writer will in this paper trace the history, to some extent, of the causes leading up to the application of synchronous apparatus to the water power transmission system of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company for the purpose of maintaining adequate and serviceable standards comparable with such as would be realized with an individual steam plant situated where power and light are to be utilized."
"The purpose of the paper is to show the conditions that determine the disruptive strength of an air path along the surface of a solid dielectric of higher specific inductive capacity, and what steps must be taken to insure the most efficient use of the two dielectrics in combination. Part II of the paper discusses the effect on the electric field between two given terminals of the presence of a solid dielectric. An experimental means of determining the shape of the field is given. An explanation of the conditions that exist at the surface of the dielectric when in an electric field is given. The conclusion is drawn that if the surface of the dielectric be made tangential to the lines of force at every point, the strength of the path between the two given terminals will not be weakened. Part III shows the results of applying this theory to practical purposes, such as insulating a terminal rod passing through a casing, and directing the external field on the standard form of condenser type terminals. In this portion of the paper, several curves are given, showing the distribution of potential over the surface of the dielectric. Part IV gives the summary and conclusions, which are to the effect that breakdowns of an air path over a surface have been obtained, which average as high as 9.4 kv. per cm. effective value (23,900 volts per inch) over a distance of 17.0 cm. (6.7 inches). Conditions of design are such that these same averages may be maintained for any voltage, by increasing all dimensions of the structure proportionately. The strength of the air path in this form of design is independent of the specific capacity of the dielectric, and an important thing, therefore, is to shape the terminals properly in order to obtain a high average intensity over the given path."
"The arrangement of conductors so that they shall assist in insulating one another has received but little consideration. The object of this paper is to emphasize a principle of electrostatic theory by which this may be done. A statement of this principle is: “If a region in any particular electric field be isolated or cut out by any number of closed surfaces then the electric field in this region will remain unchanged, whatever change may take place in the external field, if the potentials at all points on the enclosing surfaces are maintained at their original value.” A discussion of the principle follows and illustrations of electrostatic fields produced by its means. Limitations imposed on practical applications of the principle are discussed. Application to core-type transformers is considered. Arrangements suitable for various conditions of service are described and a description is given of a transformer which was built according to this principle, and tested. Application to shell-type transformers and to outlet terminals and insulators is shown. Condenser type terminal affords an example of the advantage obtained by conforming to this principle. Suggestions are made as to its application to line insulators. This principle is capable of wide application and seems to afford a solution of some of the most perplexing problems confronting electrical engineers."
"A. E. Kennelly: This paper manifestly embodies a large amount of valuable experimental work. It is work, as has been stated, done under very trying conditions, and we are all the more indebted to those who have done the work on that account. We have, it is true, known but little concerning the heating conditions inside ducts, although we know fairly well the heating conditions around a single cable of known dimensions buried at a given depth in the ordinary soil. I do not mean to say that we ought to be content with the knowledge which we have in that direction, but at least we have some knowledge."
"A. Dyckerhoff (communicated after adjournment): In going over the paper on The Economical Speed Control of Alternating-Current Motors Driving Rolling Mills, it occurs to me that some statements made in this paper are misleading, and also that many points are not brought out which should be mentioned. While I do not wish to invade the territory of the rolling mill engineer, whose task it is to find out the best rolling methods, and to whose needs the electrical manufacturer has to adapt his machinery in ways consistent with the best engineering practise, I wish to make a few remarks as an electrical engineer connected with steel and rolling mills. I feel myself the more qualified to speak since I had a very good opportunity during the past summer to study in Germany the question of economical speed regulation of a-c. motors, and its reliability in practical application under severe conditions."
"F. T. Leilich (by letter): Mr. Eshleman has brought out in his paper a number of points that but few superintendents and managers of industrial plants realize. This lack of appreciation of proper lighting is a noticeable feature of many of the cotton mills of the South."
"The New York Midwinter Convention of February 1913 is to be held under the auspices of the Standards Committee, which is preparing data for a revision of the Standardization Rules. Recent investigation has shown that the Present Standardization Rules of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers are inadequate to meet the most recent practise and tendencies. It was therefore considered desirable to present proposed modifications to the electrical engineering fraternity for comment and suggestions before adopting them in the rules."
"The day before Christmas, Mr. Herbert Adams was the guest of the Institute at a luncheon given in his honor at the Engineers' Club in New York under the auspices of the Italian Memorial Committee. The occasion was the presentation to Mr. Adams of an engrossed copy of the special resolutions of thanks passed by unanimous vote of the Board of Directors in October."
"A series of lectures on radioactivity will be presented to the Institute by Professor Edwin P. Adams of the Palmer Physical Laboratory, Princeton University, on Tuesday evenings, March 18 and 25. and April 1 and 8, at 8:15 p.m. in the auditorium of the Engineering Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in New York on Friday, January 10, 1913."
"Constitution of the Institute To the membership of the A. I. E. E.: I should like to be permitted to point out an error in the argument presented in the December issue of the Proceedings, bearing on the desirability of another revision of the Constitution of the Institute. I only ask such a privilege for the reason that I have been a member of several committees on the revision of the constitution, and was the chairman of the committee which prepared the constitution adopted in 1901, to which reference was made in the December issue."
"Engineering has been defined by Tredgold as “the art of directing the great sources of power in nature for the use and convenience of man.”"
"The two hundred and seventy-ninth meeting of the Institute was held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, Friday evening, January 10, 1913."
"The following Associates were recommended for transfer to the grade of Member by the Board of Examiners at its regular monthly meeting held on January 2, 1913. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary:"
"At a joint meeting of the Standards Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, and a committee especially appointed for the conference by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, on December 13, 1912, at the Engineering Societies Building, New York, the following resolutions were unanimously adopted, and have been duly reported to the governing boards of the two above-mentioned engineering societies:"
"The December meeting of the Baltimore Section, on December 20, 1912, was preceded by a dinner served in the grill room of the New Howard Hotel. The dinner was followed by a symposium on Industrial Power. The subject was presented by five speakers, as follows: Mr. R. H. Tillman, “Outline of Industrial Applications in Baltimore;” Mr. W. H. Ulrich, “Electricity in Hotels;” Mr. T. D. Rose, “Electricity in Office Buildings;” Mr. F. M. Weller, “Electricity in the Fertilizer Industry;” and Mr. A. B. Grubmeyer, “Electric Refrigeration.”"
"Mr. R. J. Andrus has been made vice-president and general manager of the Northwest Electric and Water Works, with headquarters at 614 New York Building, Seattle, Wash."
"The problem of permissible temperature limits in electric apparatus is largely that of the durability of the insulation used. As this may consist of materials of widely varying heat-resisting qualities, the problem resolves itself into one of consideration of the properties of the materials themselves."
"An investigation, covering the past three years by the subcommittee on the subject of Rating Electrical Machinery, has shown conclusively that the present Standardization Rules of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers have, in many respects, become inconsistent as well as inadequate to meet the present service conditions which electrical apparatus is called upon to fulfill."
"On account of uncertainties and irregularities, methods of measuring losses are more desirable than those involving the entire energy. The usual losses, viz. core, loss, friction, and I2r are mentioned and conditions shown under which so-called load losses appear; these are largely in the form of excess core loss, due to saturation of the teeth. Excess copper loss may also appear and be corrected for, both in primary and secondary. Test results are given showing the effect of saturation in the teeth, and excess copper losses; also from 29 input output tests, showing the efficiency by direct measurements in comparison with the method of losses, showing an average of about ¾ of 1 per cent lower by direct measurement. Results of two tests are shown where load losses were excessive, due to peculiar construction. The conclusion is that where no saturation exists there will be no load losses, and no excess copper losses in wire wound stators."
"The load losses of well designed generators are relatively small and their accurate determination is difficult. When duplicate machines are available the circulating energy method is recommended. In this method the losses of the two machines are the quantities measured, and variations of any magnitude are readily determined. Careful tests were made on three machines to select some method of determining load losses when but one machine was available. The indications were that the load losses were approximately the same as the short circuit core loss. The few machines tested and the small load losses of these do not warrant a recommendation that the load losses be considered as equal to the short circuit core loss. It is hoped that additional data will be brought forth to establish a rule to cover this case."
"The current carrying capacity of an insulated cable may be calculated from data on the thermal resistivity of the insulation and of the surface. It has been shown that such data may be obtained for any type of insulation from experiments on the cable itself, by applying a well-known method for determining heat conductivities. As a result of experiments on different types of cable insulation, the following values have been obtained for the thermal resistivities (deg. cent. per watt per inch cube)."
"This paper describes the most practical methods that have been employed for obtaining actual load temperatures of alternators and induction motors with an expenditure of power considerably less than that of their rated capacity. These methods are: Alternators. 1. Zero power factor method, (a) Leading current, (b) Intermittent leading and lagging current. 2. Open- and short-circuit method, (a) Continuous run, (b) Intermittent run. 3. Open delta method. 4. Phase displacement method. Induction Motors. 1. Feeding-back method. 2. Reduced voltage method. 3. Reversed rotation method. Data from actual tests are presented to show how closely the temperature rise by these equivalent load methods agrees with that of actual load. No attempt has been made to justify the use of equivalent heating tests through theoretical considerations. The chief advantages and objections of the different methods are stated and conclusions are drawn as to the most reliable substitute methods for actual load from a practical engineering and commercial point of view. Certain equivalent tests adapt themselves so well to commercial testing conditions that their use becomes imperative for a large proportion of alternating-current generators and motors."
"The author states his purpose to be three-fold: 1. To discuss briefly certain elements in design that affect the character of the potential wave; 2. To show the effect of load and operating conditions on the no-load wave; 3. To give illustrations of the potential waves, — good, bad and indifferent, of generators, that actually supply the a-c. systems throughout the country. There are ninety illustrations in all; a study of these shows, in connection with the descriptions given, that the most perfect wave is obtained where the proper shading of the magnetic flux is obtained either by shaping the poles, in the case of definite pole machines, or the proper distribution of field winding, in the case of cylindrical rotor machines, together with an irregular, or more or less prime relation between the number of slots in the armature and number of poles."
"In this paper, attention is called to various methods of determining temperature of apparatus, recommendations being made for the use of a definite covering for thermometer bulbs, based on the results of experiment. Measurement of temperature by resistance is confined to the rotor windings of machines on which thermometers cannot be applied; the inaccuracy of this determination for stators is pointed out. Temperature measurement by special coils inserted in the windings is recommended for machines of fairly high capacity, wound for 6600 volts and above. For room temperature determination in general, a metal cylinder covering for thermometer bulbs is recommended. Room temperature determination is shown to be of primary importance and a fair room temperature must be arrived at, in different ways, depending on the method of ventilation used."
"The present wave-shape standard has several objections, principal among which are the use of the oscillograph, the lengthy calculations necessary and the discrimination in favor of higher harmonics. The proposed standard makes use of the change of effective reactance of a condenser with change of wave shape. The important advantages are: the wave shape distortion can be determined very quickly; the distortion depends in a very definite way upon the harmonics present, both as to order and magnitude; the apparatus is very simple and the test easily manipulated. The disadvantage is that it does not show which harmonics are present. The ratio of the condenser reactance on a sine wave to the condenser reactance on the distorted wave is called the distortion ratio. It is conveniently determined by impressing the wave shape to be measured, first on a condenser with a large inductive reactance in series, and then on the condenser alone. The current and voltage at the condenser terminals in each case determine the reactance. The measurement of the distortion ratio on generating apparatus should be made at full voltage no-load, since the wave shape at load is indefinite. Several oscillograms show wave shapes recently observed and accompanying them are the distortion ratios, the deviations and the analyses. The paper concludes with proposed substitutes for the present A. I. E. E. Standardization Rules. The derivation of the theoretical formula for distortion ratio is given in the appendix. Tables are also given to serve as a guide in determining permissible distortion."
"This paper calls attention to the fact that “load losses” on induction motors as described in Section 167 of the present Standardization Rules include some losses which are not actually present when the motor is running under normal operating conditions. An analysis is made of the cause and nature of the so-called load losses and a suggestion is made as to a method of segregating the real load losses from other losses as observed in the power input to the motor at standstill. The conclusion is drawn that motors up to a certain capacity with wire windings have no appreciable load loss. In larger capacities and with conductors of certain types load losses are present. Recommendation is made that Section 167 be revised so as to include a method of determining the load losses of all classes of motors from readings taken at standstill. This will permit the calculation of the true efficiency from no-load and standstill readings."
"The paper discusses methods of determining the effective temperature of the cooling medium and the actual temperature of heated transformers. Particular attention is called to the errors resulting from variations in the temperature of air during a heat run on a self-cooled oil-immersed transformer because of the slowness of the large mass of material in following changes of temperature in the surrounding medium. It is pointed out that the effective temperature of the cooling medium is practically the average temperature of a duplicate transformer, subjected to the same cooling conditions and without load. This temperature should be used as the base for calculating rises. Methods of measuring hot temperatures by rise in resistance are discussed. Attention is called to the advantages obtained by comparing resistance of the loaded transformer with that of a duplicate idle transformer. The cooling of windings after load is removed, but before resistance readings are obtained, causes an error in the determination of the temperature rise. This drop in temperature can be avoided by measuring the resistance of the windings without cutting off the load. A method of doing this is described. Actual test results are given to show the advantages gained by using a duplicate idle transformer as a base for determining temperature rises. Instructions for using such an idle unit are also given. The paper ends with recommendations for additions to the rules to the effect that duplicate idle transformers be used whenever possible as a base for determining temperature rises."
"The paper advocates a universal method of rating oil circuit breakers which will be devoid of as many variables as possible. Rating circuit breakers with reference to the aggregate full load of all synchronous apparatus alone is not sufficient to guide in the selection of the proper circuit breaker, as the location of the switching equipment and interposed lines is of equal importance. If rupturing capacity were rated as “maximum instantaneous,” meaning by “instantaneous” the elimination of time limit relays in tripping, it would eliminate all rating in reference to non-automatic, cell mounted, pipe frame, time-limit tripping, etc., and be confined entirely to the switch itself. The author suggests that all circuit breaking devices be rated with reference to the rupturing capacity on their instantaneous action."
"With an ultimate view to selecting such multiplying factors as will permit of the stray loss values in direct-current apparatus being estimated without resorting to actual test, this paper presents: First. A brief description of the two elements comprising stray loss. Second. Methods of testing for stray loss with a short discussion as to the comparative accuracy of each. Third. Results of tests. The principal data are given in the form of curves showing the magnitude of stray loss at various loads on different machines. In connection with these results tentative suggestions are made as to possible multiplying factors. The paper is incomplete inasmuch as enough reliable data were not available at the time of writing to draw definite conclusions. Supplementary data will be presented at the Midwinter Convention."
"Since the method recommended by the A. I. E. E. for obtaining regulation of alternators from no-load saturation, short-circuit curve and armature resistance in most cases gives incorrect results, another method called the “triangle method” is suggested. This method requires the same tests as the A. I. E. E. method, and. drives the regulation by means of the Kapp diagram from an estimated full load zero power factor saturation curve, which in turn is determined with the aid of Potier's triangle. Potier's triangle is derived from no-load saturation and short-circuit curve by means of a simplified equation for armature reaction. A series of tables follows, in which regulations obtained by triangle and A. I. E. E. methods are compared with results obtained from actual test. The tables prove that the triangle method is the more accurate. Hence the suggestion to supersede the present A. I. E. E. method by the triangle method."
"The limitations of the present needle point spark gap are discussed and the use of a spark gap having two equal spheres is proposed. The space required by a vertical sphere gap having the lower sphere grounded is very much less than that required by a needle point gap for the same voltage range. Corona and resultant inconsistencies are prevented if the spheres are used over a separation not greater than their diameter. This leads to large spheres for high voltages. Sphere gaps have proved satisfactory in commercial, testing because they are reliable, more convenient, require less floor space, and are portable. Spheres of 25 cm., 37½ cm., and 50 cm. diameter covering ranges of approximately 50,000 to 275,000; 50,000 to 412,500 and 50,000 to 550,000 volts effective values, respectively, are proposed as standards. A few features are suggested to be incorporated in the Standardization Rules."
"The object of this paper is to obtain a convenient method of evaluating the actual losses in the copper of a transformer and in figuring the regulation. The effects of various factors on the copper loss of transformers are discussed. It is pointed out that they are, as a rule, negligible in well designed transformers. It is shown theoretically that the copper loss and regulation of a mutual inductance may be derived from its short circuit loss and impedance voltage. The transformer differs from the mutual inductance, due to the fact that the primary and secondary inductances are functions of the induction in the iron. It might be inferred therefore that the short circuit losses, as obtained in the ordinary way, might differ from the equivalent quantities obtained under full load condition. The equation derived in Section 2 furnishes a method of testing to obtain this equivalent short circuit loss under full load conditions. To ascertain if the values of short circuit loss and impedance, obtained in this way, differ from those obtained in the ordinary way, tests were made by both methods yielding results which, after proper corrections were made, checked very closely. Results of tests are tabulated. Practical formulas for figuring copper loss and regulation are given. Recommendations are made as to tests and formulas to be used for obtaining true copper loss and regulation."
"The paper discusses the different recognized methods of conducting load tests on more than one transformer without applying actual load, also methods of making such tests where one single phase transformer only is available. The actual loading of transformers for test purposes is very expensive, and therefore, the motor-generator method is most suitable whenever more than one single-phase transformer or any number of three-phase transformers are considered. The load and excitation is applied to the high voltage or to the low voltage windings depending upon the rating, etc. of the transformers. When one unit only is available a heat test may be made which consists in applying intermittently an over-voltage core loss with an over-current impedance loss. Approximate values of temperature only are obtained by a combination of an ultimate open-circuit heat run followed by an ultimate short-circuit heat run, and should be used only where not expedient to use the other method. Tables 1 to 8 inclusive show results of the above methods on different transformers as compared with dead load and motor-generator methods. Upon the characteristics of the transformer will depend the over-voltage and over-current for the intermittent runs, so as not to injure the transformer and also to eliminate errors. All the motor-generator methods, Figs. 1 to 6 inclusive, are standard and therefore have been recommended. When one single-phase transformer is considered, the intermittent run method is recommended and this method may be modified so as to obtain a closer refinement."
"For some time it has been felt that the corrections to be applied to the temperature rise of stationary induction apparatus, when operating under conditions differing from standard, needed some little revision. The theoretical considerations governing the dissipation of heat from this class of apparatus are given briefly in the first part of this paper and the influence of temperature, barometric, pressure and humidity on the emissive constants are also briefly discussed. It was expected that the presence of moisture would have considerable influence on the temperature rise of air-cooled apparatus but a theoretical analysis shows that for ordinary room temperatures, the effect can be small even if the atmosphere is saturated. Exception is made, of course, to the case of fog-laden air. The second part of the paper is devoted to a presentation of the results of some tests made to check these conclusions. Some of these tests were made under artificially produced conditions and some under natural conditions. In the last part of the paper recommendations for corrections to be applied and precautions to be taken are given. Wherever possible, apparatus should be tested under as nearly the same conditions as those under which it is to operate. In case it is impossible to maintain these conditions the following corrections should be applied: I. Variations in Room Temperature. On all classes of apparatus except air-blast no correction be applied. On air-blast the present recommendations of A. I. E. E. be followed. On water-cooled apparatus the reference be the in-going water and this temperature and that of the room should be as near 25 deg. cent. as possible. II. Variation in Barometric Pressure. For self-cooled apparatus present A. I. E. E. recommendations be followed. For water-cooled apparatus no correction be applied. For air-blast apparatus double the present A. I. E. E. recommendations be followed. III. Variations in Humidity. No corrections be applied for variations in humidity except in case of fog-laden air."
"The data obtained from numerous tests on induction motors, check the losses as given by the Standardization Rules with the exception of the fixed and stray losses. The tests show that both losses are less than would be obtained by the Institute method. The true fixed loss should be taken as the power input, when the motor is running at rated voltage and without load, minus the stator copper loss produced by the magnetizing current. This copper loss is appreciable in slow speed motors. With stator cores built up of well varnished punchings and without drifting or filing of the slots, the stray loss in the magnetic materials is negligible. The stray or eddy current loss in the stator copper is proportional to the stator copper loss, the percentage loss depending upon the degree of lamination of the conductor. The average stray loss of the test for both 25-and 60-cycle machines is approximately 6 per cent of the stator copper loss. The writer is not aware of any satisfactory commercial method of determining the stray loss in induction motor stators. It therefore seems desirable that an average value of the stray loss in per cent of the stator copper loss be adopted as standard. In squirrel cage motors and small wound-rotor motors, where the slip is usually greater than 2 per cent, the total rotor loss should be determined from the slip reading when operating at full load. The rotor loss should be taken as the copper I2r loss from resistance measurements in large wound-rotor motors where the slip of less than 2 per cent and a full load slip reading cannot be readily obtained."
"The paper calls attention to the insufficiency of the present Standardization Rules of the Institute on the subject of brush losses and their determination. A more accurate method of determining the losses is described and rules are given for application of the data so obtained to the calculation of brush losses. A recommendation is made for the amendment of the Institute rules to cover a more comprehensive and accurate method for the determination of such losses."
"The present rule of the Institute in regard to wave form is not satisfactory, as it does not sufficiently penalize the higher frequency harmonics. Deviation of the wave shape from the sine form is considered, and the effect on the current wave form in connection with various kinds of circuits, such as resistance, inductance and capacity. Conditions occurring with two differently shaped e. m. f. wave forms in parallel are also considered, and the resultant effect on the current wave. It is shown how, in some cases, very great current wave distortion may occur, or excessively large local currents may flow between synchronous machines, due to difference in e.m.f. wave shape. Several examples are given of excessive current and e.m.f. wave distortion. Errors in power factor meters and other instruments due to wave shape are discussed."
"In considering the effect of various conditions on the temperature rise in electrical apparatus, it is necessary to distinguish between the three modes of heat transmission; namely, conduction, radiation, and convection. The laws governing each of these factors are considered. Conduction. A table of all available reliable data on heat conductivity of materials used in electrical apparatus is given. The effect of air spaces is considered. The temperature coefficient of the conductivity differs considerably for different classes of bodies. Methods are given for calculating the heat transmitted through bodies of various shapes. Radiation. The Stefan Boltzman fourth power law is used to calculate the energy radiated from a “black body.” A table for the relative emissivity of other bodies is given. Convection. The laws of convection of heat from wires and plane surfaces at various temperatures are considered. The film theory of convection agrees well with experimental results and makes it possible easily to express the variation of convection with change of air temperature and pressure. For forced convection, Russell's equation gives reliable results. The effect of viscosity and other factors is of great importance in convection in liquids. Combined Effects. Radiation and convection are usually about equally effective in carrying heat from a surface. The effect of these two factors can often be conveniently taken into account by assuming a certain surface resistance. It is very important to carefully distinguish between radiation and convection from surfaces when the walls of a room are at different temperature from the air contained in it."
"The paper gives the results of certain special tests on motors and an investigation of certain commercial tests on motors and generators, with the purpose of obtaining data which would indicate the effect of room temperature on temperature rise of motors and generators. The special tests were made in a room the temperature of which could be controlled. The general tendency of these tests was toward a higher rise at the cold room temperature, but the results were not entirely consistent, and hence no general rule could be found for applying a correction. Curves and data are given showing the methods used and the results obtained, from which the following conclusions were drawn: 1. The present correction rule is wrong and should be abrogated. 2. The considerable variations obtained show the difficulty of making a rule that will include all types of machines or even all parts of the same machine. 3. A consideration of the total temperature obtained when working under normal conditions in the maximum room temperature, is of more importance than the rise of temperature. 4. Further tests leading to the determination of a correct rule, if possible, are desirable."
"This paper deals with the problem of internal heating of stator coils for a-c. generators, particularly those with long cores in which little heat can be conducted from the center of the machine to the ends. In such generators, the heat must pass out to the iron through the insulation, and it is important that the probable temperature difference between inside and outside of the insulation be known at least approximately. Heat conductivity coefficients for various kinds of insulating materials are given, and a method of calculating the temperature gradient described. Some examples of tests made to determine the difference in temperature between inside and outside of coil are also included."
"Contact voltage losses are caused by resistance of contact between brush and slip ring or commutator. Their values are affected by composition, pressure, temperature, humidity, current density, etc. Test apparatus should control and accurately record all these variables. Two surface variations, which may cause large errors, have been investigated: (1) The change in the surface of the brush due to continued passage of current causes large momentary fluctuations in the values of contact voltage loss. (2) The thin coating of carbon which adheres to the commutator surface decreases contact voltage loss values by forming a conducting medium between brush and commutator. The complexity of the problem is shown by the large number of variables, each of which materially affects the contact voltage loss. It is proposed to record the effect of these variables for each brand of brush on standard tabular and diagrammatic forms. 2. The value of the power loss due to brush friction is affected by composition, angle of brush, surface conditions, speed, pressure, etc. Commercial tests are not sufficiently accurate to be of use in getting standard values. Such values can only be obtained when test apparatus is used which controls and records all the variables. Curves and formulas are proposed which record the effect of the principal variables on each brand of brush. In conclusion it is urged that tests to determine comparative values for losses due to contact and friction should be made under ideal conditions and that the values thus obtained are more dependable than those of commercial tests now being made, and should supersede them."
"This paper is a report on a laboratory investigation of temperature rise as a function of pressure, temperature and humidity of the air. Physical laws regarding the dissipation of heat in air are important in temperature rise correction as well as in electrical design. Such laws are not yet very well established, and the purpose of the investigation was to determine these. Because of unforeseen difficulties, the results of the tests fell somewhat short of a scientific standard of accuracy. The results, however, are thought to be worthy of attention as approximating very closely the desired laws. The authors have endeavored, therefore, to present somewhat in detail a description of the apparatus and its manipulation, and to discuss the results, especially as regards their bearing on temperature rise correction. This paper is considered as preliminary to a more thorough and careful investigation now being made."
"It is proposed in the paper to divide transformer losses into no-load and load losses, the former including core and dielectric losses, and the latter resistance and stray losses. The magnitude of the stray loss is shown in a large number of commercial transformers and in a few experimental machines. The relation between the impedance watts and the load losses is discussed, and the conclusion reached that they are practically equal. Results of tests are given, showing the magnitude of the dielectric losses in high-voltage transformers. It is recommended that Sections 156 to 159 of the Standardization Rules be amended to define transformer losses as no-load losses, including core and dielectric losses, and load losses, including resistance and stray losses. It is further recommended that all losses be measured at the operating temperature."
"Temperature in electrical apparatus is an important factor. It affects the life of the apparatus. II. Temperature of transformers is affected by room temperature, circulation of air, design of case and arrangement of coils. Each part of apparatus should be ventilated according to its individual requirements. III. Discussion of tests to determine efficiency of cooling. Rules are given for determining approximately the maximum temperature of the windings. IV. Standard methods of loading transformers are described. The direct loading method is rarely used, on account of the expense involved. The artificial methods at present in use are applicable only when two or more similar transformers are available. V. The alternate open-circuit and short-circuit method is described. It is useful when there is only one transformer on order. Theoretical proof of the method is given. VI. Tests are made by the new method on both self-cooled and water-cooled transformers. These tests are found to agree closely with results obtained with standard tests."
"The paper describes tests which have been made to determine load loss correction factors for direct-current motors and generators, alternating-current generators and synchronous motors, and synchronous converters. The term “load loss” is understood to mean the difference between the total losses under load and the sum of the separate losses as determined from no-load measurements. A series of very careful loss measurements, made with conditions equivalent to those normally existing under load, is described. The losses thus measured are the sum total of the individual losses under load. These values are compared with the sum of the separate losses as determined from no load measurements. The difference between the readings is the “load loss” or “stray loss.” This load loss is due, first, to the increased core loss resulting from field distortion, second, to eddy current losses in the armature conductors caused by fields set up by useful currents flowing in them. All the other losses can be accurately determined from no load measurements. Therefore the proposed correcting factors are not to be applied to the sum of the separate losses but to the sum of the calculated armature I2r loss and the no load core loss. A few laboratory tests on the different types indicate certain fairly uniform ratios existing between the sum of these losses under actual load conditions and their sum as determined from no load measurements. A large number of commercial input-output tests is then examined and checked by means of the correcting factors determined from these laboratory tests. As the averages of the commercial tests agree quite closely with the laboratory tests the authors feel justified in recommending the following values for the proposed correction factors."
"The present Standardization Rules recommend that one-third of the “short-circuit core loss” be taken as stray loss for the computation of efficiency of synchronous machines. An analysis of short-circuit tests of quite a variety of machines indicates that this is too small an amount and it is recommended that the Standardization Rules be revised to include a greater part of the “short-circuit core loss” as stray loss. The tests show that in the case of slow or moderate-speed machines practically all of the short-circuit loss can be accounted for by armature resistance loss plus eddy current loss, and that there is very little short-circuit loss in the armature core in case it is well built. In the case of high-speed turbogenerators there is a large loss appearing on short circuit which cannot be accounted for by eddy currents in the conductors. A large portion of this is due to eddy current and hysteresis loss in the un-laminated parts of the machine. An additional reason for taking more of the “short-circuit core loss” as stray loss in the case of a turbogenerator is that there is probably an appreciable additional loss with actual load on account of increased magnetic leakage from the field resulting from the increased excitation required."
"The paper discusses heat dissipation, and after citing the present Standardization Rules of the Institute in regard to “Temperature Corrections” points out that it is not only the copper resistance changes, therein assumed, which affect temperature rise, but also variations in other internal losses and heat dissipation. Then follows a discussion of the effect on temperature rise of barometric pressure, humidity and changes in resistance loss, iron loss, radiation, viscosity and thermal constants of the cooling medium, friction windage and condition of operation. It has been noted that in many cases the rise at high temperature is lower instead of higher as assumed in the Standardization Rules, and the authors made tests to determine some of the fundamentals which govern the emission of heat and temperature rise at different air temperatures. The tests made and data given cover only the direct effects of air temperature air pressure and humidity. The apparatus and methods of test are described and the results for variations in temperature and air pressure are shown graphically. The tests show that within commercial limits and at constant input the temperature rise is independent of air temperature, provided the walls or objects to which heat may be radiated are at the same temperature as the air. Barometric changes are shown to affect the temperature rise somewhat and the statement is made that humidity has no appreciable effect upon the result. The conclusion drawn is that instead of the correction specified by the Standardization Rules, no correction should be made for variation of air temperatures within the usual testing limits. This conclusion is based on the facts that there arc a number of variations, some of which are positive, some negative and some either positive or negative depending on operating conditions."
"This paper is a discussion of the current carying capacity of electric power cables. The limiting temperatures are discussed. The relation of the temperature rise of cables suspended in free air to the rise under other conditions is considered, the rise in free air being treated specifically, formulas being given for the calculation of this rise. The rise of temperature with loads of brief duration is discussed. Tables are given showing permissible overload ratings, these tables being applicable under all ordinary conditions."
"Only those errors that have an appreciable effect upon the results need be considered. Instruments should be selected to give a reasonable scale deflection, should be calibrated at regular intervals, and should be used with discretion. The use of instrument transformers should be avoided wherever possible. Stray fields seriously affect readings. The ordinary tests that are made on transformers are enumerated and each one is considered separately. Sources of error in making these tests are pointed out and methods of avoiding or eliminating them are discussed."
"The paper discusses the advantages and disadvantages of standard and special methods of measuring temperatures, and also points out that the Standardization Rules on temperature tests are indefinite. The maximum temperature affecting the insulation is the factor to be determined in the measurement of temperature of electric machines. Thermometer and rise by resistance measurements have serious limitations under certain conditions, and the tests may either give erroneous results or must be carefully interpreted with due regard to the conditions under which they are taken. Thermocouple and exploring coil methods are discussed in more detail, since their application in temperature testing of electric machines, is comparatively new. A very convenient method of employing thermocouples is described and results showing the heat distribution in an electric generator are given. These results not only are valuable to the designer of machines, but also present important data concerning the shut down of machines after temperature tests. The question of the temperature of the air that actually cools a machine is discussed under “Room Temperatures.” Thermometer measurements are further discussed in regard to their application to machines, showing the lack of uniformity of results on account of the various coverings and pads that may be used. The method of stopping the rotating element is also referred to in regard to taking shut-down temperatures. The conclusion gives various recommendations to be considered in the revision of the Standardization Rules concerning temperature measurement."
"The method of determining the regulation of an alternator from test results which is incorporated in the Standardization Rules, is not accurate for low power factors, as it takes no cognizance of varying pole leakage or of the ratio of armature reaction to reactive voltage drop. The effects of these are most marked at power factor zero, and as this is also the only power factor at which a load regulation curve can usually be experimentally determined satisfactorily, it is advocated to base regulation determinations upon the power factor zero load saturation, and the no-load saturation."
"Assuming that loss of heat takes place only by convection, formulas are derived for obtaining the corrected temperature rise of a body consisting mainly of copper for any arbitrary room temperature. Similar formulas are derived for bodies consisting of both iron and copper. It is shown that when the effects of both the iron and copper loss in a transformer are taken into account, this correction is so small that it is of the same order as the probable errors of observation, and may generally be neglected. When other factors are considered, this correction is still further reduced. If the effect of radiation also be taken into account, the probable correction is reduced to zero, or may even be negative where the rules indicate positive corrections."
"This paper gives a description of the methods ordinarily employed in making actual load tests on large induction motors. From this follow the reasons for making compromise temperature tests and enumeration of some of the methods more commonly employed. Comments are made on these various schemes, followed by five examples comparing the results of temperature tests under actual load conditions with results of compromise tests made on the same machines. The conclusion is drawn that compromise temperature tests are desirable and necessary and should have recognition in the Standardization Rules."
"Under certain conditions the breakdown of the air gap between equal spheres is very constant and that the sphere gap which has already been suggested as a standard for high voltage measurements has been found to be more reliable than the usual methods of test. Different methods of measuring high voltage are discussed and a new method of reading the maximum value of high voltage circuits is described. The method used in calibrating three sets of spheres in terms of maximum voltage is given. The results of many tests show the breakdown voltage to be independent of wave shape and frequency when expressed in terms of the maximum value of the voltage wave. Direct calibrations are shown for 25-cm., 37.5-cm., and 50-cm. spheres up to a voltage (max. value) of 400 kv. The relation between surface intensity at breakdown and ratio of separation to diameter shows the ultimate strength of the air to vary from 30 to 36.6 kv. per centimeter within the working range. The theoretical proportion between voltage, separation and diameter of spheres did not hold, apparently because of extraneous objects. Calibration curves are shown for the 25-cm. 37.5-cm. and 50-cm. spheres, from low voltage up to the voltage corresponding to a diameter separation. The curves are expressed in effective value of voltage and therefore assume a sine wave shape."
"The paper discusses the brush loss in direct-current machines and calls attention to the relation between the commutating characteristics of the machines and this loss. Examples are given of commercial brush drop tests and reasons suggested for their great variation. These tests as usually made on machines are practically worthless as a measure of the actual brush loss. Part of this loss is really a commutation loss, but there is no easy way of separating it from the brush loss proper. The relation between the short circuit or reactance voltage, brush drop and commutation is illustrated by several examples. A machine with difficult commutating characteristics must have a high resistance brush or it will be very sensitive to sudden changes in load, brush spacing, vibration, etc. The actual current density in parts of the brush is shown to often be two or three times the apparent density. When local currents are eliminated by using narrower brushes, resistance leads or commutating poles, higher apparent densities are permissible. On the assumption of constant brush resistance, the brush loss is calculated and the increase in loss, due to local currents shown. Actually the increase in loss is much greater than indicated by these calculations due to the fact that the brush resistance decreases with increasing current. At present no way of calculating or measuring the actual loss at the brushes is known. At best only a rough approximation can be obtained. Probably in a majority of cases the most satisfactory method of dealing with this loss is to obtain figures for it from brush loss tests on slip rings or short-circuited commutators. The increase in loss actually occurring can be regarded as a commutation or load loss and as part of the stray losses of the machine."
"This paper treats of the sources and effect of errors entering into the determination of the power efficiency of rotating electric apparatus. It is shown that where the efficiency is determined by the so-called method of “summation of separate losses” the effect of possible errors in measurement is much less than when determined by the input-output method. In the input-output method of efficiency determination all measurements enter directly into the result, so that errors in them have a maximum effect. Attention is called to the different classes of errors likely to arise, viz., purely instrument errors, observation of reading errors, and errors due to changes in the operating condition of the machine under test. Particular stress is laid on observation errors, these probably being especially large under commercial operating conditions, due to excessive swinging of meter pointers. This swinging of meter pointers may be considerably reduced under special conditions of power supply and loading, and fairly consistent efficiencies then obtained. It is this necessity of operating under special conditions and observing all precautions possible in the layout and conduct of an input-output test that entirely offsets its apparent simplicity. It is next shown that, while the efficiency as determined by the loss method is not the true operating efficiency, it can be so modified by certain factors, depending upon the type of machine, as to approach very closely to that value — much closer, in fact, than the average input-output test. The probable relative accuracies are illustrated in Fig. 1. In consideration of the equivocal results usually obtained, and in view of the laboratory methods of testing required for making accurate input-output tests, the writers do not feel that that method is to be recommended"
"A satisfactory test should duplicate as completely as possible the conditions under which the machine is guranteed to operate, and the conditions of test should be more severe and not less severe than the conditions of operation. Four methods of loading a-c. generators are described and illustrated by test results: (a) Separate open circuit and short circuit loading is unreliable because the test conditions are radically different from operating conditions but this method may be the only possible method on account of minimum testing equipment required. (b) Alternate open circuit and short circuit loading more nearly approaches operating conditions but results do not check with actual load unless test conditions are modified, from those theoretically determined. Experience is not, as yet, available to empirically determine proper test conditions. (c) Direct-current open delta loading still more closely approximates operating conditions in that current and voltage are simultaneously present. The method is somewhat limited in application due to the presence of direct current in the armature. The proper field current for use in the test is shown to be that corresponding to open circuit normal voltage. The test results check well with actual operation. (d) Zero power factor loading affords the nearest approach to actual operating conditions that has been suggested. It exactly corresponds with operating conditions except for the differences due to power factor, and these, in general, result in more severe conditions than actual loading. Test results are closer to results from actual loading than by any other method described. A direct check on field coil temperatures and exciting voltage is afforded. The application of the method is only limited by the expensive test equipment sometimes required. The zero power factor method of loading is recommended for adoption by the Institute as the preferable method. For d-c. generators and rotary converters, only one satisfactory method of loading has been suggested. This is the familiar loading-back method which is recommended."
"The paper discusses the precision that can be expected in determining efficiency of certain types of direct-connected sets by careful input-output tests. The method of dealing with the results obtained is given in some detail and the conclusion is reached that such efficiency tests can be made to within about 1 part in 500. This degree of precision is closer than the limits within which the efficiency can be relied upon to remain constant. The efficiency is sometimes indefinite to as much as the general order of ½ per cent, because the no-load losses do not remain constant. Stray losses determined from input-output tests may therefore vary considerably more than the efficiency measures, but large stray losses can be detected with certainty and the small losses usually found can be found with sufficient degree of exactness to serve as a reliable check on other and more suitable direct methods. Without such check, direct methods are usually not quite conclusive, because of failure to include all possible sources of loss or to realize completely operating conditions during tests. Accurate input-output tests under commercial conditions require too much time and involve too much labor to allow of their regular use for general testing, although they are useful as a basis of final reference."
"The 286th meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, October 10, 1913, at 8:15 p.m."
"The American Institute of Mining Engineers will hold a special meeting, under the auspices of the Iron and Steel Committee, in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, October 16–17, 1913. The Iron and Steel Committee of the A.I.M.E. extends to all members of the A.I.E.E. who may be interested an invitation to attend this meeting."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Unless otherwise indicated the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before October 30, 1913."
"Messrs. D. C. and Wm. B. Jackson, engineers, announce the removal of their Boston office from 84 State Street to 248 Boylston Street."
"Clinton Bersley Smith, Assoc. A.I.E.E., of Portland, Oregon, assistant engineer of the Pacific Power and Light Company, met his death on July 6, 1913. He and his wife lost their lives in a blizzard while climbing Mount St. Helens. Mr. Smith was graduated from the North Dakota State University in 1900 with the degree of Bachelor of Science. He studied later at the Minnesota State University, receiving the degree of Electrical Engineer from that institution in 1905. He was elected an Associate of the A.I.E.E. on July 26, 1907. Until 1909 Mr. Smith was connected with the Helena Power Transmission Company of Helena, Montana, and later went to Portland, becoming assistant engineer of the Pacific Power and Light Company. Mr. Smith was a prominent member of the Portland Section of the Institute, and on July 21 his fellow members met to pass resolutions expressing their sorrow at the sad death of Mr. Smith and his wife, and their sympathy with his family in their loss."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute, since the last acknowledgment."
"The paper gives a brief outline of some of the important developments in oil circuit breakers which have taken place within the last two or three years. Ideal conditions require that the current should not reestablish itself after passing the first zero value following the opening of the contacts, and this emphasizes the value of high opening speed in a circuit breaker. Breakers have been designed in which resistances were introduced to limit the current to a value readily ruptured, but as this principle is difficult of accomplishment, reactance has been successfully substituted for resistance. Reactance breakers have two sets of contacts, the main set which carries the normal current, and an auxiliary set which carries the reduced current after the reactance has been introduced by the opening of the main contacts. Breakers for any power and voltage, with all the usual methods of operation are now available."
"The first paper describes investigations into the cause of blackening of the bulbs of tungsten lamps and discusses methods where by this effect is avoided and the efficiency of the lamp thereby increased. The second paper describes in detail the high-efficiency tungsten lamps which have been produced by filling the bulbs with nitrogen vapor at approximately atmospheric pressure. The blackening of ordinary lamps has generally been considered due to the presence of residual gases which adhere to the surface of the glass or are occluded in the filament. These investigations show that of the residual gases, water vapor is the only one which causes perceptible blackening by means of a cyclic process in which the water oxidizes the filament, the oxide is volatilized and deposited on the bulb, where it is reduced to metallic tungsten and the water vapor again formed. This action, however, is shown to occur only in poorly exhausted lamps, and the real cause of blackening in well-exhausted lamps is due to evaporation of the filament alone. The methods of improving the efficiency of the tungsten lamp consist of the introduction of gas into the bulb at atmospheric pressure and changing the location of the deposits by means of convection currents in the gases so that the glass opposite the filament is not darkened. By making use of these principles, practical tungsten lamps have been produced having a life of over 2000 hours and an average specific consumption of one-half a watt or less per candle power. A number of different types of nitrogen-filled tungsten lamps are described in detail."
"The first part of this paper outlined principles upon which radical improvements in the efficiency of tungsten lamps may be based."
"To increase production and to decrease cost are two important questions continually before the manufacturer. Since labor is the greatest cost of production, then, where machine tools are a considerable factor in the production, maximum output from the tool is a necessity. Tools that are limited in production because of a lack of power at the tool are a source of expense to the manufacturer. Power cost is low while labor cost is high. The well designed motor-driven machine of today shows the motor as one of the main elements of the tool, it having short-circuited much of the old mechanical drive, and not as a mere adjunct to the tool. Too little thought is given in many cases to the possibilities of the electric drive for machine tools."
"The author gives three principal reasons why a central station plant can take care of a given service more economically than a small plant. First, because the first cost per kilowatt of the large units is lower than the corresponding cost of the small units, thereby reducing the first cost and the annual fixed charges. Second, because the operation of a large plant is proportionally less than that of a small plant, and because the large plant can afford to make use of labor saving and other devices which would be out of the question in a small plant. Third, because of the existence of a diversity factor whereby a combined load can be operated with a smaller total capacity than would be required if each part of the combined load were operated separately. The author concludes that the only reasons why central stations should not supply all the electrical service within their territory are that the rates offered may be out of proportion to the cost of the service, or that the customer may have some motive other than the cost of the supply for not using central station service."
"The author traces briefly the engineering development of “industrial substations”, by which term he designates installations of electrical plant equipment in consumers' premises, receiving electrical energy from a central station system. A discussion is entered into of the factors governing the design and installation of this class of substation and four factors are advanced as determining the design: (1) Space economy; (2) Operating requirements; (3) Fire hazard and safety to attendants; and (4) Costs. Descriptions are given of some twelve industrial substations which are taken as typical installations and which are at present in operation in this country. Numerous diagrams and illustrations are given of the various plants. At the conclusion of the descriptions, detailed discussion is undertaken in a further analysis of the four factors enumerated as they relate to the twelve plants which have been described."
