"Indications of the future point to electric motor driven propulsion and abandonment of coal-burning boilers. Electric cooking and heating is in line with this development and the source of heat for cooking and heating will be confined to the boiler room. The future of electric cooking apparatus is assured by the progress already made in the U. S. Navy in adopting electric equipment. Detail report is given of trial trip of U. S. Texas, which depends almost entirely upon electricity for cooking. Consumption of 1.25 kw-hr. per person per meal is indicated. Load factor was 50 per cent. Electric ranges and bake ovens effect considerable saving in weight and space and release cooks from being “firemen” to devote their time and effort to good cooking. Electric cooking finds greatest advantages in high temperature cooking. Electric heating on shipboard does away with the disadvantages of steam piping and gives individual and local regulation and provides, where desired, glowing heat without fire. Other accessories are the electric flatiron, the soldering iron and therapeutic devices."
"Electrical development in the marine field has been confined in a large measure to the navy, and the best experience with electric steering gears has been obtained from navy installations. Up to the present time steam has been the universal power for operating steering gears but certain disadvantages are inherent in this system which can be overcome by the electric drive, and additional advantages obtained. The history of electric gears shows that many different schemes have been tried and proved failures owing to faulty designs and imperfectly developed apparatus. At present several different systems are in successful operation. To obtain full benefit of the advantages possible from an electric drive, much depends on the selection of apparatus with characteristics best suited to the work. The problem of electric drive is largely one of control. The calculations for rudder and motor horse powers must be carefully made, with the proper assumptions for the conditions presented. Several installations in the navy have shown excellent results; in the case of the battleship Texas the data obtained show preliminary calculations were quite accurate. Results obtained seem to justify the prediction that electric steering gears will be used quite generally in the future."
"This paper presents an analysis of the transformer troubles for one year on a system having nearly 15,000 transformers installed. This analysis indicates that about 50 per cent of the troubles traceable to the transformer can be eliminated, with no great expense, by some slight changes in the construction details and some improvements in operating methods. Reference is made to the Standard Specifications for Line Transformers issued by the Bureau of Standards. An experiment on 1600 transformers with the connection board removed or submerged proved that the connection board above oil was responsible for about 60 per cent of the transformer troubles due to lightning. Curves showing the record of burnouts of four different makes of transformers are used as a basis for a discussion of effect of the value placed on continuous service in the selection of transformers. The results of experiment with improved lightning protection are given, showing how the troubles were reduced by two-thirds. By taking advantage of the results of the two extended experiments, it should be possible to reduce the troubles due to lightning to about 10 per cent or 20 per cent of the troubles heretofore experienced."
"The paper gives an outline of the distributing system of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company of California which operates at 60 kv., the transformers being Y-connected, with the neutrals solidly grounded. The company considers the grounded neutral system has a number of important advantages with regard to the transformers, the transmission lines, and operation. The fewer turns of larger capacity of the Y-connected transformers and the fixed lower average voltage to ground greatly increases their reliability. The maximum voltage on the line insulators with the grounded neutral is never more than 57.7 per cent of the line voltage, and it is possible to maintain polyphase service at a substation on a branch line with only two wires in case one wire should be cut out. This cannot be done on a delta system unless one phase of the system be grounded, which is very undesirable. With a grounded neutral, a wire down is instantly detected and power must be shut off. In a delta-connected system an arcing ground is often followed by surges which break down the insulation at other points, the cause of this disturbance being the oscillatory character of the arc. In the grounded Y system no such disturbances occur, as the frequency of an arc to ground is the same as that of the system and any damage is confined to the point of failure. It is also believed that operation with the grounded neutral causes less disturbance in telephone and telegraph lines than would be the case in delta-connected lines."
"In this paper the relative advantages and disadvantages in operation of the more important three-phase transformer connections are discussed. Three conditions of operation are given: First, normal; second, operation of a bank with one phase disabled; third, effect of line grounds on operation. The paper is not complete, particularly in that high-frequency or switching phenomena are not discussed. Its major purpose is to give a fairly adequate presentation of insulation stresses at relatively low frequencies to which transformers are subject in either normal or abnormal conditions of operation. These frequencies include the fundamental or generated frequency and its harmonics and the natural frequency of the system. The behavior of three-phase auto-transformers under the various conditions of operation given above is also analyzed."
"The star-star, delta-delta, delta-star and star-delta connections are taken up in order and their individual peculiarities and characteristics, precautions that must be taken in operation to avoid trouble and where and when the system may be grounded with best results, are discussed. The question of delta-delta vs. delta-star is considered: (1) For moderate voltages the delta-delta system has the advantage on account of its greater flexibility. (2) For high voltages the delta-star connection is preferable, chiefly on account of its greater strength and lower cost. There is a probability that a delta-star bank of transformers will cause less disturbance in switching than one that is delta-delta connected. (3) There are much greater possibilities of development in transformers designed for delta-star connection than for any other. (4) Past and present practise upholds the use of the delta-star connection in preference to the delta-delta for high-voltage transmission."
"The paper reviews the conditions under which triple harmonic voltages and currents are produced in Y-and delta-connected transformers. These voltages are produced by hysteresis in the core. In a single-phase transformer, increase of series resistance tends to suppress the current harmonic and produce the voltage harmonic. In three-phase transformers, a Y connection suppresses the current harmonic and allows the full flux and voltage harmonics to appear. Delta connection provides a closed path for the current harmonic, and suppresses the triple voltage. A case is cited where a Y-connected auto-transformer was used to step up from 6600 to 12,000 volts at a substation. The neutral was not grounded, and trouble resulted due to partial resonance at triple frequency between line capacity and transformer reactance. The paper shows that, although not generally recognized, a triple component can exist in the line-to-line e.m.f. wave of a three-phase system. This is possible in a case where a two-to-three-phase transformation is used, and when the e.m.f. wave of the two-phase generator contains a triple harmonic. Vector diagrams and curves are given illustrating this possible effect."
"The main advantages obtained with the Y connection are as follows: (1) It is possible to bring out a lead from the neutral point of the winding, which is useful for various purposes. (2) The cost is less than with the delta connection, requiring approximately 58 per cent of the turns. (3) It is not possible for circulating currents of triple frequency to flow in the windings. The delta connection does not appear to have any advantages except as a convenience in design for certain voltages. When used, proper precautions must be exercised in the design to eliminate excessive circulating currents."
"This paper gives a brief survey of the conditions of operation of aluminum-cell arresters, without any description of the forms of the arresters. References are made to recent investigations of lightning phenomena and their possible effects on the design of protective apparatus used at present. The d-c. aluminum arrester is most economical and represents the highest possible grade of protection. In connection with the a-c. aluminum arrester the following points are discussed: dielectric spark lag, dissolution of film, charging resistance, oscillations, damping, degrees of surges due to natural operations and accidents, and insulations which withstand these surges. Charging resistance on aluminum arresters is chosen to make surges harmless, and the charging resistance gives great immunity from damage to the arrester itself by any accidental and temporary local condition in the arrester. In conclusion, the aluminum-cell arrester may justly be regarded as a standardized electrical device founded on solid fundamental principles."
"The authors briefly trace the evolution of electric power up to the present time, and note various fields of application of electric power which have become specialized branches of electrical engineering. The tendency of public utilities towards consolidation, and the advantages to be derived thereby, are discussed, also the interconnection of hydroelectric plants, and the grouping of systems under a holding company. The growth of the electric power industry is illustrated by reference to the recent U. S. census report. The present practise tends to the use of very large generating units, and transmission lines are being constantly increased in length and operated at higher voltages. Applications of electric power to various industries are briefly referred to and their advantages in various fields are specified."
"F. W. Peek, Jr: Three types of insulation are in general use — gaseous, liquid, and solid. The mechanism of breakdown differs in many respects in the three types. Any insulation, under given conditions, ruptures at a given point when the dielectric flux density at that point exceeds some definite value. The total dielectric flux depends upon the capacity and the electromotive force; that is, upon the size and spacing of conductors and the voltage between them. The flux density at various points will also be different, depending upon the configuration of electrode. The flux density at any point is proportional to the gradient at that point. The strength of insulation, therefore, may also be expressed in terms of the gradient measured at the point where rupture occurs. The voltage required to rupture insulation, divided by its thickness, is not a measure of the insulation strength. It is the average gradient. The maximum gradient where rupture starts is much higher. For instance, take two pairs of spheres, one pair a half-centimeter in diameter, spaced one cm. apart, and the other pair two cm. in diameter, spaced one cm. apart. Apply a voltage of 100 kv. across pair No. 1. The gradient is maximum at the surface and is by calculation de/dx = 270 kv./cm. The average gradient e/x = 100/1. On pair No. 2, 100 kilovolts gives de/dx = 135 kv./cm.; e/x = 100 kv./cm. Thus for the same voltage and spacing the actual stress is quite different, depending upon the curvature. If 20-cm. spheres are taken, under the above conditions de/dx = 103 and e/x = 100. Thus with large radius the average gradients and de/dx are approximately equal. This is the reason that in any investigation (other than commercial testing) made to determine the strength of insulation, some electrode is taken in which the dielectric flux density and gradient at various points can be calculated — that is, spheres, parallel wires, or a wire in a cylinder. These may be arranged so that the break is local, as corona in air on two parallel wires at large spacings. The break starts at the surface because the flux density is a maximum there. The conducting corona extends out approximately to a point where the flux density is below the breakdown density. Only when the surfaces are close together does a complete spark-over take place before corona forms."
"Roger T. Smith (by letter): Mr. Kahler's paper is interesting to English electrical engineers from the complete method of analysis adopted. The examples taken do not, however, invite criticism either of the constants or of the results since they are not comparable with anything in the way of steam or electric traction that we have or are likely to have in England."
"The Second Annual Midwinter Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, February 25th to 27th, 1914."
"Plans are already well under way for one or more special trains from the East to San Francisco in connection with the International Electrical Congress to be held in that city in September, 1915. The trains themselves will represent the last word in safety and comfort, while their itineraries will be laid outto include the finest scenery in the country."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held at 33 West 39th vStreet, New York, on Friday, January 9, 1914."
"The 290th meeting of the Institute, in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, January 9, 1914, was held as a joint meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the New York Sections of the American Electrochemical Society and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. The subject for consideration was “power problems in the electrolytic deposition of metals.”"
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on January 6, 1914, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grades of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"A joint meeting of the Electrical Section, Western Society of Engineers, and Chicago Section, A. I. E. E., was held Monday evening, November 24, 1913. The meeting was called to order by Mr. D. W. Roper, chairman of the Chicago Section A. I. E. E., with about fifty members and guests in attendance."
"The Colorado State College Branch held a meeting ori January 8, when Mr. D. F. Richardson presented a paper describing the Chattanooga hydroelectric power plant. The paper made clear the layout of the generating, transforming and transmitting apparatus. A discussion followed."
"Mr. H. J. S. Heather has been appointed Professor of Electrotechnics in the School of Mines at Johannesburg, South Africa."
"Eugene Romig, Assoc. A. I. E. E., assistant electrical engineer of the U. S. Electrical Manufacturing Company, Los Angeles, California, died at his home in Los Angeles on December 30, 1913. Mr. Romig was born September 10, 1892, and received his technical training at the University of Southern California. He was elected an Associate of the Institute on October 10, 1913."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The concentration of a large generating capacity on the busbars of a single power station demands protection against an excessive flow of current into an accidental fault. Reactance coils can be used in various ways to limit the instantaneous current flow. Reactance coils in the generator leads, while limiting the flow of current from the different generators are not efficient for limiting the current flow into a fault. Bus reactances are less bulky and less expensive than generator reactances; are more efficient in controlling the current flow, and have the advantage of localizing the effect of a fault to one or more sections of the busbars. They have the disadvantage that, under normal conditions of operation, the current flow across them may cause an undesirable drop in voltage. The ideal system of bus reactances would afford maximum protection to service and equipment in emergencies but, under normal operating conditions, would give minimum voltage difference between various points in the busbars. The straight bus, the ring bus, and the ring and transfer bus approach this ideal condition in the order named. Reactance coils in each feeder circuit are extremely effective in limiting the flow of current into a short circuit on the feeder and in isolating the effects of this short circuit from the other parts of the system."
"The development of the outdoor substation vs. the indoor type is an interesting commentary on the adaptability of engineering progress to new fields and the subject is briefly recapitulated in this paper, in line with the developments and application of this branch of transmission work. The causes for development of this apparatus, together with a general description of the classes of apparatus involved which have been changed to meet new conditions, are given. The application of the indoor vs. the outdoor substation to services of different character is indicated, and the tendencies for the future briefly touched upon. A comparison of the advantages and disadvantages of the types considered is outlined. In general, it appears that the equipment for outdoor installations has been successfully developed to meet the severe conditions imposed, and the numerous installations involving outdoor features indicate the extensive use of this idea in the future, while its development as applied to the central station itself affords a considerable field for attention."
"This paper covers some points in substation design for installations for the lower voltages, including choice of location, type of building and arrangement of electrical apparatus. The subject is treated in three divisions, namely: customers' substations fed from the distribution system, customers' substations fed from the transmission system and company's substations. Attention is called to some of the advantages of both the outdoor and indoor substations for each of the different divisions. Points to be considered in the selection of locations for substations are outlined and several types of buildings, particularly the one of concrete slab construction, are described. Attention is also called to different arrangements of electrical equipments, which may be employed for installations of various sizes. Different schemes for installing high-tension switchboard apparatus are considered, attention being called to the open wire and the cell structure installations, with special reference to the concrete cell structure and the method employed in its construction."
"The present development of outdoor switching apparatus and transformers for systems of 110,000 volts or less is such as to make their use entirely successful, and in most transformer substations, a considerable saving in first cost can be accomplished without increase in operating expenses, by making use of this type of equipment. This paper gives a brief description of two substations of 10,000 kv-a. ultimate capacity, just put into operation, in which all the high-tension switching apparatus (66,000 volts) and the transformers are outdoors. The low-tension apparatus (13,200 volts) and the railway apparatus are indoors. This arrangement is based on the three following principles which have in this case proved to be sound: 1. That the greatest saving in building cost can be made by putting all high-tension work outdoors. 2. That the switching apparatus, lightning arresters and transformers of voltages in the neighborhood of 66,000 volts are practical and may be successfully operated outdoors in New England. 3. That distributing switchboard, control switchboard and railway apparatus and switchboard are not suitable for outdoors."
"Conditions in the Middle West, particularly in the agricultural districts, have often been such as to necessitate the construction of small 33,000-volt outdoor substations in order to make the supply of current commercially practicable. These stations have been constructed with very simple switching and protective equipment, and economy of design and protection to the main line have been the dominating feature of design. Operation of such stations has been successful and they are of great benefit to the communities served. Improvement in lighting and overload protection is looked for."
"IT IS not intended that the following article shall completely cover the very broad subject of transmission of electrical energy, but only outline some of the more important problems which have to be considered when building and operating high-voltage lines. Such data as are contained herein have been supplied by the members of the sub-committee with the idea of furnishing a basis for discussion, for it is recognized that the principal value of a paper of this kind lies in the discussion which it may elicit. Some of the topics of particular interest at this time have been treated in short special articles which are published as appendices to this report and which appear under the names of their respective writers."
"The paper describes some of the mechanical and electrical problems which have been experienced on high-voltage transmission lines equipped with suspension insulators and points out some of the principles involved and some practical methods for guarding against the troubles. Figures are given showing the deflections which will take place for various sizes of aluminum and copper conductors at the insulators, under the pressure of maximum probable wind velocity."
"IN THIS report your committee has submitted an outline of what it believes to be good engineering practise in the distribution of electrical energy for various purposes and under various conditions, which outline it is hoped will encourage and direct further attention to this vitally important matter."
"THE Engineering Data Sub-committee was created by the present administration and has therefore no established precedents to indicate the proper scope of its activities. The appointment of the committee grew out of the work of the original High-Tension Transmission Committee of ten years ago, under the leadership of its chairman, Mr. Mershon, in collecting engineering data about high-tension transmission plants and the similar work of the High-Tension Transmission Committee last year undertaken at the suggestion of Mr. Mershon, then President. The general approval of this collection of high-tension transmission data suggested the thought that valuable data might be collected in other fields."
"L. G. Robinson: It seems to me that the subject of circuit breakers has been handled in a very masterful manner. The principles underlying the operation of the circuit breaker I agree with perfectly. The use of circuit-breaking devices dated back to the time when we used direct current almost entirely; it was found after the introduction of alternating-current circuits, that as the voltage of a circuit gradually increased, due to the necessity of longer distance in transmission and heavier loads to be carried on the circuits, that the more abrupt the opening of the circuit the better. Dr. Steinmetz some years ago published in the Institute Proceedings a very exhaustive treatise upon the effect of opening circuits abruptly, especially alternating-current circuits, and he used mathematical demonstrations and deductions to show what the effect would be in regard to oscillations caused by this sudden rupture of the current. The keynote of his deductions or summary was that you cannot open a circuit too abruptly for the reason that as soon as the current goes to the zero point in the wave form it is unable to re-establish itself and dies out naturally in the vibration."
"Harold Goodwin, Jr.: The speaker discussed the advantages of the individual drive and the cost of operation; but he left out apparently the cost of initial installation."
"W. C. L. Elgin: I think Mr. Liversidge has covered many of the important points in relation to substation design, but I have gained the impression that he has paid too much attention to the question of space economy. Although the size of the apparatus readily lends itself in that direction, I think there are many bad designs because too much attention has been paid to obtaining the smallest possible space for the apparatus."
"Harry Archer Hornor: Mr. Lincoln has properly stated in the introduction of his paper “that most engineers are ready to admit without argument that a large power plant can supply a given power service as a part of a general power supply business more economically than a plant merely equipped for special manufacturing business.” Therefore it is obvious that we should look to other than engineering considerations to find the motives which prevent the prospective customer from purchasing his power from a central station."
"John B. Taylor: I would first like to make a few remarks, to give the audience a few moments' time in which their eyes may become accustomed to the great difference in brilliancy between the filaments they have just been looking at and the enlarged projected image, which, perhaps, will have a brilliancy of something in the order of one-millionth part of the brilliancy of the lamps at which you have been looking."
"The Thirty-First Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Detroit, Michigan, June 22 to 26, 1914. The convention headquarters of the Institute will be at the Hotel Pontchartrain, where the technical sessions will be held. Members are requested to register at Institute headquarters on their arrival at Detroit. The following program has been arranged:"
"The sixth annual Pacific Coast Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held this year in Spokane, Wash., on September 9, 10 and 11, under the auspices of the Spokane Section of the Institute. The arrangements for it are being made by the special Convention Committee, the personnel of which was announced in the May issue of the Proceedings."
"The Board of Directors of the Institute held its regular monthly meeting in New York on Tuesday, May 19, at 3:30 p.m."
"The American Electric Railway Association appointed a joint committee including representatives of the A. I. E. E., the N. E. L. A. and the A. T. & T. Company to prepare a specification to cover the joint use of poles by electric light, electric railway, telephone and other interests and to draw up an agreement suitable for such joint use. After two years' work a draft of specification and agreement has been prepared by the Joint Committee and is now offered for criticism by engineers or companies who may be interested in the subject. Members of the A. I. E. E. may obtain copies of this specification and agreement by application to the Secretary. All criticisms should be returned to Mr. W. J. Harvie, Chairman, American Electric Railway Association, 33 West 39th Street, New York, by July 1, 1914."
"The 294th meeting of the A. I. E. E. was a joint meeting with the American Physical Society, held in Washington, D. C, Friday and Saturday, April 24 and 25, 1914. The Institute's part of the program was arranged and conducted by the electrophysics Committee and the Washington and Baltimore Sections. Five papers were presented on behalf of the A. I. E. E., in accordance with the program published in the April Proceedings, and fifty papers were presented by members of the American Physical Society. Most of these papers were briefly abstracted by their authors."
"The Annual Meeting of the Institute (295th meeting) was held on May 19, 1914, in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on May 14, 1914, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grades of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Baltimore. — March 27, 1914, Physical Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University. Subject; Insulation. Paper; Insulating Materials by L. E. Barringer. Attendance 26."
"Mr. Allen C. Morse has been chosen as resident engineer and manager of the new branch office which the engineering firm of McMeen and Miller has opened in Cleveland, Ohio, at 407 Electric Building. The firm has been conducting a general engineering practise for more than ten years. The main office of McMeen and Miller is at 1454 Monadnock Block, Chicago, ill."
"Paper of Mr. Bruno Thieme at the meeting in Berlin, February 3, 1914, on “Electrical Sensitiveness of Flames and Its Utilization.”"
"The Library Board of the United Engineering Society desires to obtain by gift, exchange or purchase any of the missing volumes of serial publications listed below, and requests the cooperation of members of the Institute. Those who have any of these volumes, or know of anyone who wishes to dispose of them, are requested to notify Dr. W. P. Cutter, Librarian, Library of the Engineering Societies, 29 West 39th Street, New York. Cooperation in this matter will be of great assistance inaddingto the resources of the Library."
"The paper gives the results of experiments made with a miniature simple transmission system to demonstrate the inherent voltage relations with different combinations of Y and delta connections. The experimental system consisted of a 7.5-kv-a. revolving field generator, with coil terminals which could be connected either Y or delta, and two banks of transformers each composed of three shell-type 3-kv-a. units. All inductive and capacity effects in the transmission line were eliminated. The tests were made under constant conditions, with non-inductive load. The authors give the results of four groups of tests, on four different systems of connections, pointing out the advantages and disadvantages of the several systems. In each case tests were made without load, with balanced load, and with load on one phase only, for various conditions of grounding. Typical voltage diagrams are given, to show what happens under various conditions of load. The authors discuss certain cases where the use of auto-transformers is advantageous, and the effects of different ways of connecting them."
"Electricity is being adopted to a great extent for space heating in marine work because of the simplicity and low cost of installation, saving in weight, freedom from leaks, noises and disagreeable odors as compared to steam heat, availability for heating of individual rooms, ability of placing heaters where most efficient, portability so that storerooms and other seldom-used spaces may be readily heated when desired, ease of regulation so that individual staterooms, etc., can be maintained at any desired temperature without affecting the whole system. A comparison of convector and radiant heaters is given, the proper use of each type is shown, and the conclusion drawn that for space heating on shipboard with metal decks and bulkheads, the convector heater is most efficient. Curves are given showing results obtained on tests to determine the best type of heater for shipboard and desirable features of heater are indicated. With low cost of electricity on shipboard, electric heating compares favorably in cost of maintenance with steam heating. It interferes very little with the lighting load, thus increasing the load factor, and seldom requires extra generator capacity."
"The gyroscope when continuously driven by electric power may be used for various purposes, many of its applications having especial value in marine work. Small gyroscopes are used to establish base lines for the measurement or control of angular motion. The gyro-compass makes use of the earth's daily rotation and consequent changing direction of gravity to secure a directive force a hundredfold greater and more accurate than that of the magnetic compass. A general description is given of the gyro-compass as adopted by the United States Navy for use on all the battleships and submarine vessels. Many electrical and mechanical devices have been developed to perform the various functions whereby an instrument of great precision has been secured. Large gyroscopes are made which are capable of counteracting enormous wave forces and completely stabilizing any ship against rolling in the heaviest seas."
"A gap method of measuring high voltage is desirable in certain tests because a gap measures the maximum point of the voltage wave. The needle gap is unreliable, and is subject to large corrections due to humidity, etc. The sphere gap is free from complicated corrections and the curve is subject to calculation. Wherever voltage is measured by a gap, correction must be made for air density — that is, altitude or barometric pressure, and temperature. The laws for this correction have been deduced for the sphere gap, from tests, over an air density range equivalent to that from sea level to 18,000 ft. elevation. An equation is given for calculating sphere spark-over curves for various spacings, radii, air density, etc. Standard measured curves for convenient sizes of spheres at sea level are given for practical use, as well as a table for applying these curves to any altitude. The altitude correction may be made very accurately to the standard curve, either by applying the calculated correction constant or by applying the correction factor given in the tables. The complete standard curves should not be calculated when reliable measured curves are available. The effect of high frequency and impulse voltages are discussed. In making measurements certain precautions are necessary for accuracy, as well as for protection of apparatus. These precautions are discussed and test results are given."
"The paper presents the account of an investigation of the influence of frequency on the corona, between 60 and 3000 cycles per second. The wire and coaxial cylinder method was used. A simple method for measuring the maximum value of an alternating voltage wave has been developed and used for obtaining this maximum value at the critical corona voltage. The gold-leaf electroscope was used to detect the first appearance of corona. It has been found that for frequencies above 275 cycles per second the corona voltage (maximum value) is not so uniform and constant as it is at frequencies in the neighborhood of 60 cycles. The indications of the investigation are that at 2000 cycles the corona voltage is lower than it is at 60 cycles by about 3 or 4 per cent. The experiments reveal several interesting instances of resonance phenomena in the high-tension transformer circuits."
"The paper describes a series of experiments made by the authors to determine the values of steady high-frequency, high-voltage currents required to discharge between seven-inch copper spheres in air, at ordinary temperatures and barometric pressures. A 15-kw. arc generator was used as the source of high-frequency sustained high voltage, and the apparatus employed in securing and measuring currents of 123,000, 255,000 and 612,500 cycles is described in detail. The sphere-gap standard consisted of electrolytic copper spheres mounted on the ends of brass tubes in treated wooden frames, and the gap lengths were accurately determined by means of calipers and micrometer screw or steel scale. The results obtained are given in Tables II and III and are also charted in curves I and II, Fig. 5. The 123,000-cycle values show a right line relation between sphere gaps and discharge voltage, which line, when extended, passes through the origin. The high-frequency voltages are almost uniformly 4.5 kv. below the 25-cycle voltages observed by Chubb and Fortescue."
"The paper brings out in a concise form the present status of heat engines and hydraulic turbines in commercial use today for the conversion of the energy found in fuel and water into mechanical power for the production of electric energy. The various types are compared as to relative importance, capacity, efficiency, weight, cost and economy, which are illustrated by curves plotted on kilowatt basis. (a) Reciprocating Steam Engine. (b) Steam Turbine (c) Gas Engine (d) Oil Engine (e) Hydraulic Turbine (f) Finance and Economics Curves are plotted showing the investment and fuel costs of the different heat engine units, on the basis of percentage of normal full load rating of machines."
"In this country rubber compound, paper, and cambric are generally used for cable insulation. From the formula S = 0.868 V/d log10 D/d, the stress at any point in a homogeneous insulation may be determined. The minimum stress and the maximum allowable voltage occur when the conductor is 10/27 of the sheath diameter. The present irrational practise of testing cables should be standardized to conform to this formula or a modification of it. Over-stressing of the insulation is accompanied by a change of insulation resistance and electrostatic capacity. No one factor of safety is applicable to every cable system, but one must consider the conditions of operation as well. In testing the voltage may be applied: (1) by submersion; (2) between the conductor and metallic sheath; (3) between wires. The submersion test is the most severe. A sine wave is desirable for testing purposes, but rarely occurs in a commercial generator under these severe conditions of load. Reactance cannot always be used successfully to reduce the volt-ampere load on the generator. With a distored wave an a-c. voltmeter gives only a poor indication of the maximum voltage. The writers have devised an instrument based on the oscillograph principle, with which the maximum voltage may be determined, regardless of wave form."
"This paper gives a brief description of the mechanical arrangement of a coal bridge. The bridge consists essentially of a trolley car with hoisting mechanism for a self-filling bucket. A series-wound motor is recommended for driving the trolley car; and the proper method of gearing the motor for the most economical results is discussed. A series-wound motor is recommended for a low-speed hoist and a shunt-wound motor for a high-speed hoist. The relative merits of the two methods of winding the motor are considered."
"The author mentions two general ways of reducing peaks, the first being to furnish the peak power from a separate source such as a local steam turbine, and the second to store some of the power furnished by the power company, which is given up later when the peak demand comes on. In the case of the plant described by the author a mixed pressure turbine was installed to take the peaks, this being selected on account of available exhaust steam from pumps, air compressors, etc. The turbine is direct-connected to two direct-current generators mounted on a common bed-plate. The first plan tried was to use a motor-driven rheostat operated with clutches which in turn were operated by solenoids energized by current controlled by a contact-making ammeter. After the installation of a maximum demand meter which integrates the one-minute peaks, the rheostat control was found to be too slow and a special peak-taking device was then installed. This device consists of a rod carrying points which successively make contact with mercury cups and which is operated by the moving element of the graphic meter. These mercury contacts close relay circuits which operate to short-circuit sections of resistance in the field rheostat of the turbogenerator, raising its voltage, and also cut in sections of resistance in the field rheostat of the motor-generator set, weakening its field and thus reducing its load."
"The paper describes a six-speed concatenated induction motor set for driving the finishing rolls of a 12-stand continuous mill. Analysis of the conditions in this mill showed that the use of a low-pressure turbine would lead to the waste of a large amount of exhaust steam and that the alternating-current turbine plant which was in operation had ample reserve capacity for driving the mill. The large number of speeds required suggested the use of a direct-current motor, but as this required a motor-generator set it was found to be more expensive than the concatenated motor. An induction motor operating with a speed regulating set was also considered but its disadvantages lay in the fact that a commutating motor or synchronous converter would be required, the performance of which at the frequency employed being questionable. The concatenated set installed consists of a double-wound main motor and single-wound secondary motor, both stators mounted on a common bed-plate and both rotors on a common shaft. The larger motor has both a 14- and 16-pole stator winding and the secondary motor has its winding arranged for four- and eight-pole connections. The control system is described in detail; its operation is very simple, so that no regular attendant is needed. The motor has six definite speeds and two additional resistance speeds, and while the control is somewhat complicated it has been made so nearly foolproof as to make a special attendant unnecessary. As a result of the year's operation there have been but three interruptions, the total loss of time due to which has been 68 minutes."
"Mercury-vapor quartz lamps are applied industrially for the production of ultra-violet rays for the sterilization of water. To obtain ultra-violet rays economically it is important to study the temperature of the luminous part of the lamp. There are different ways for measuring the ultra-violet power, based on physical, chemical or bacteriological reactions. Such reactions are compared between them. The paper refers to the historical development of mercury lamp water sterilizers and the development of pistol lamps for large sterilizing units. Different germs are of different sensitivity to ultra-violet light. It is important that the water should be clear when entering the sterilizer. Description is given of two typical installations, one in Europe, one in America. Data are given on the power consumption for the sterilization of water by ultra-violet rays."
"Experiments are described to determine the relationship between telephone circuit loads and the corresponding delay to traffic. The operating methods employed and the number of circuits available determine in general the number of messages per day which can be handled over a single toll circuit. The average delay to traffic obviously depends upon the number of messages per circuit per day, or the circuit loads. With a given load factor, increase in the circuit loads will increase the average delay to traffic. At the same time the revenue per circuit mile will correspondingly increase. The practical limit, however, is approached when the delays to traffic reach a point where the service is unsatisfactory. The results of the experiments described illustrate the fact that increasing circuit loads increase the delay to traffic, and vice versa. The revenue per circuit mile is directly proportional to the product of the circuit load and the toll rate per minute-mile; consequently the relationship between the quality of service and the toll rate is generally obvious, assuming a certain rate of return on the plant investment."
"The paper describes a system of high-speed printing telegraphy devised by the author, a prominent feature of which is the simplicity of the apparatus and its operation. The author briefly mentions a number of high-speed systems which have been tested by the operating companies, none of which have completely fulfilled all the requirements for accuracy, rapidity and low cost which are desirable for commercial work. The system described is operated in connection with a commercial typewriter to which a punch is connected which perforates a half-inch strip of paper with groups of holes distinctly spaced in five rows, each group representing a letter. The punched strip of paper is then sent through the transmitter so that the holes pass under five wire brushes. Batteries of either polarity are thus connected between the earth and either one of a pair of conductors, or batteries of different potential can also be used. At the receiver there are five elements which are separa-ately controlled and these elements make an autographic record by means of a local battery on a moving sensitized paper whenever they touch the surface. The apparatus which is comparatively simple is illustrated and described in detail. On the basis of duplex working and the use of two wires the operating speed is 650 words per minute over a 375-mile line."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its annual report for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1914."
"The 302nd meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held on the fifth floor of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, on Friday, December 11th, at 8:15 p.m. The meeting rooms will be opened an hour in advance of the meeting for informal conference of members and guests."
"The American Institute of Electrical Engineers was the first of the national engineering societies to develop Section work as one of its activities. This department of our work has developed greatly in the last few years and offers unusual advantages to the membership at large."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday, November 13, at 3:30 p.m."
"Baltimore. — October 28, 1914, Westport Power House. Inspection of the Westport Power House of the Consolidated Gas, Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore, followed by a buffet luncheon. Joint meeting with Baltimore Consolidated Section of N. E. L. A. Attendance 280."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The development in the application of electric drive to the lumber industry has been exceptionally rapid. Successful sawmill companies are now even operating entirely from central station service, notwithstanding the large amounts of refuse available for fuel. The paper considers the lumbering industry as carried on in Washington and Oregon, and describes the application of electric power to the various operations carried on under the two main divisions of logging and milling. Typical applications are described, to illustrate types of motors and power transmission equipments, and the average power demands of the various logging operations and milling processes. In addition to the machines used in ordinary sawmill work, those used in planing mills and shingle mills are described. The question of the disposition of waste is considered, and comparative fuel values are given. The illustrations show logging operations and electrically driven saws, finishing machinery and lumber-handling machinery in the Pacific Coast lumber districts."
"Investigation shows that insulator trouble increasing with time is not due to fatigue in the material under applied working loads, but rather to depreciation caused by the absorption of water by porous material or by the cracking of the dielectric from high internal mechanical stress set up by uneven temperature in the dielectric, or by greater expansion of cement or metal, or stress from a combination of these. The shape of the dielectric may cause high maximum stresses under comparatively mild conditions, necessitating the working of material with a lower factor of safety than that permissible even in steel work. The high maximum internal stress under which insulators operate will cause considerable depreciation in some types through cracking, necessitating a careful study of the effect of depreciation upon the operation of the system. Trouble comes largely through the matching up of faulty parts so that the remainder of the insulator will be destroyed by a comparatively mild surge. Applying the theory of probability, it is then possible to obtain a relative operating hazard for the insulator under the same conditions or for varying degrees of depreciation. An equation for the operating hazard may be developed which gives a good idea of the relative economic importance of the number of sections in the insulator, the magnitude of the switching surge and the rate of depreciation as affecting the reliability of the system. The study of depreciation shows that routine tests which will tend to eliminate future depreciation, or refinements in the mechanical features of the insulator, are of far more importance in producing reliability than the designing of insulators to withstand extremely severe dielectric design tests, for insulators which may have extremely high dielectric strength will cause trouble through cracking from internal stress."
"The dielectric strength of air decreases with decreasing pressure and increasing temperature; that is, with the density. Therefore, at high altitudes where the barometric pressure is low, brush discharge starts and spark-over takes place at lower voltages than at sea level. The effect of air density on corona, and spark-over between spheres, etc., has already been given. In the following investigation the effect of altitude and temperature on the surface spark-over of leads and insulators was studied by placing them in a large wooden cask and gradually exhausting the air. Correction factors are given for various standard types. The spark-over voltage decreases almost directly with the air density."
"D. B. Rushmore: There is a fairly sharp dividing line which distinguishes motor application work from other fields of engineering, except railway work, which must be considered as a specific field in itself. The field of motor application is very largely that of driving machines which either perform work themselves or are very actively connected with the work performed, and machines engaged in conveying material."
"Rudolph Tschentscher: The three points which stand out very prominently to me as a steel man are these: First, the exceptional reliability of the equipment — it entailed a loss of a little over one hour's time in practically a year's operation; second, the low operating cost, there being no additional attendance required; and third, probably greater than either of the other two, the rapidity of the control movement. I think the paper gives the time for braking, reversing the forward motion, as being done within one minute. That, to one in the steel business, means a very considerable saving in tonnage."
"Alfred E. Waller: There are two points I would like to ask Mr. Ford to explain further. One of them is, just what position the gyro occupies in the ship; for instance, just what is done to it to produce this rolling which has been shown to be so effective in breaking ice and getting a ship through a channel which would otherwise be obstructed?"
"W. S. Hadaway, Jr.: The paper by Messrs. McDowell and Mahood is of value in showing that while different types of heaters develop the same amount of heat with the same input, their effective value may vary according to conditions of service."
"J. Lloyd Wayne, 3rd: I think this subject of telephone toll traffic is very close to the heart of every operating telephone man and it is certainly to be appreciated if we can bring before the public the fact that speed costs money. The telephone message being largely intangible, the general public is apt to get the idea that it does not make any difference in your cost of operation whether you get the connection through quickly or slowly. The telephone user is liable to forget the simultaneous demands of the many other telephone users. This paper brings out evidence of the practical necessity of lining up the toll calls in the order of receipt, if rates and earnings on the plant investment are to be reasonable. Every toll telephone plant representing a large investment may be likened to a transmission plant subject to very high peak loads. A large part of the day the plant is not carrying anywhere near its capacity and at other parts of the day it may be subject to overload demands. Unfortunately these busy or overload periods occur at the hour when business is at its height and thus at the time when speed means the most to the patron."
"C. R. Underhill: Mr. Kinsley is certainly to be congratulated on the very ingenious device which he has brought out, and I must say that it is one of the most surprising forms of high-speed printing telegraph instruments which have come to my notice It seems, however, that it is necessary to use two wires and ground, which makes the line expensive, particularly since the machine is designed, I presume, for long-distance transmission, as that would be the service in which it would apparently have its greatest value, but the use of two wires may not be so detrimental as at first appears. Probably one great reason why the printing telegraph has not been adopted more in this country as compared with European countries is because in foreign countries the telegraph is used for letter writing. Abroad, I understand that it is customary to send a telegram instead of a letter, and for that reason the traffic is increased and the price is brought down."
"Morgan Brooks: I notice one point, that is not of very great importance, that perhaps might lead to error. The author speaks of the light varying inversely as the square of the distance. That is true in the case of point source, but not true of line source. If the light is of any appreciable length in proportion to the tank, or the vehicle which is used in conveying the water, it will vary more nearly in inverse proportion to the distance, which will make a difference in some cases."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The second annual midwinter convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, February 25, 26 and 27, 1914, under the auspices of the Electric Power Committee."
"The International Electrical Congress is to be held at San Francisco, September 13 to 18, 1915, under the auspices of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers by authority of the International Electrotechnical Commission, and during the Panama-Pacific International Exposition. Dr. C. P. Steinmetz has accepted the Honorary Presidency of the Congress. The dehberations of the congress will be divided among twelve sections which will deal exclusively with electricity and electrical practise. There will probably be about 250 papers. The first membership invitations will be issued in February or March, 1914."
"An important amendment to Section 51 of the Institute by-laws, recommended by the Sections Committee, was adopted by the Board of Directors at its meeting on December 12, 1913."
"In a forceful and timely address delivered at the annual convention of the American Society of Civil Engineers in Ottawa, Ontario, last June, Professor George F. Swain, president of the Society, gave an admirable summary of the economic tendencies and problems of the times, and the relation of the engineer thereto."
"The Board of Directors of the Institute held its regular monthly meeting in New York on Friday, December 12, 1913, at 3:30 p.m."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on December 9, 1913, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grades of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"The November meeting of the Baltimore Section was a dinner held at the City Club, on the evening of the 21st. The subject for discussion was: “Engineering Education, with Special Reference to the New Department at Johns Hopkins.” Professor J. B. Whitehead, chairman, introduced the subject, followed by Mr. J. B. Scott, Prof. C. J. Tilden, Prof. C. C. Thomas, Prof. S. N. Taylor, Mr. A. S. Loizeaux and Mr. J. C. Distler."
"Armour Institute of Technology A meeting of the Armour Institute of Technology Branch was held on October 29. A paper was presented by Messrs. M. B. Stecher and C. L. Witzel on “A-C. and D-C. Signaling Devices Used for Railway Service.”"
"Mr. Philip E. Hart has accepted an appointment as resident engineer of the Dorada Railway Ropeway Extension, Honda, Colombia, South America. Mr. Hart has been until recently located in Montreal, Que."
"Clarence E. Delafield, Assoc. A. I. E. E., district manager of the Intermountain territory of the Crocker-Wheeler Company, died on November 30, 1913, in Denver, Colorado. Mr. Delafield was associated for a number of years with the Wagner Electric Manufacturing Company of St. Louis, Mo., and was later sales manager of the Ohio Brass Company of Mansfield, O. He entered the service of the Crocker-Wheeler Company on September 1, 1909, and had recently filled the position of district manager of that company's Intermountain territory, with headquarters at Denver and Salt Lake City. He was elected an Associate of the Institute on April 5, 1912."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledge ment."
"The problem involved in producing direct current for electrochemical processes is outlined, and the difficulties are pointedout. Of the methods of power supply using steam turbines that are available, it is shown that: (a) Direct-connected d-c. turbogenerators are available only in relatively small units, and cannot be designed as conservatively from the commutation standpoint as is desirable. (d) Unipolar generators driven by turbines have proven unsatisfactory on account of current collection difficulties. (c) The standard medium-speed d-c. generator connected to a high-speed turbine through gearing affords a satisfactory unit. (d) The combined a-c. turbogenerator and converter unit probably affords the best all-around method. It is economical, reliable and flexible. Its particular fields of application are where large units and long transmissions are required. In waterpower plants, direct-connected d-c. generators and a-c. generators with converters are available. The combined a-c.-d-c. equipment is usually the most reliable and economical. With reciprocating engine units, there is no reason for considering other methods than the direct-connected slow-speed generator."
"An outline of a theory and classification of instability in electric circuits is given, divided into three types: 1. The transients resulting from the readjustment of the stored energy to changed circuit conditions. 2. Unstable electrical equilibrium; that is, the condition in which the effect of a cause increases the cause. This is illustrated by the electric arc on constant potential, and the induction motor within certain speed ranges and loads. 3. Permanent instability resulting from a combination of circuit constants which can not co-exist. This is illustrated by the arcing ground on a transmission line, and by the hunting of synchronous converters, and the phenomena of continuous and cumulative oscillations. It is shown that such phenomena require an energy supply resulting from a lag of the effect behind the cause, or a hysteresis cycle, and frequently involve a frequency transformation. The phenomenon of hunting of synchronous machines, and the mechanism of the transfer of the hunting energy from the supply power, then is treated explicitly, as an illustration of the general character of these phenomena."
"Henry Floy: Turning to the last pages of the paper, it is a disappointment to find that the final formula, given on page 1130, in which one looks to find the solution of the problem discussed, omits a part of the “total cost” elements mentioned on page 1119. In fact the question may be fairly raised whether “General and Miscellaneous Administration Expenses” of one plant are capable of direct comparison with those of another plant upon the basis merely of output. These expenses really have little to do with the question of scientific perfection of design or efficiency of operation of a power plant. Proportioning such expenses to power costs in the relation of such costs to total costs, as mentioned on page 1116, may be unfair. This may be seen by considering the disproportionately large amount of the president's salary, for example, compared to his time or effort, that would be allotted to power cost, when based on the ratio of expense for fuel to the total expense. Perhaps a more equitable method of proportioning the general officers' salaries would be on the basis of letters found in office files relating to the different departments, or dividing auditing expenses in proportion to the vouchers passed for the various departments. Another omission from the formula presented is the failure to take into consideration for comparison, the substituted cost of water and its treatment for boiler and condensing purposes, which might be quite different with appreciable effect on power costs in the plants being compared."
"William J. Foster: The self-starting synchronous motor has one bad characteristic and that is the induced potential across the field terminals. It is something which exists in the nature of the apparatus. Of course, if we keep down the number of turns in the field winding, we always can help out in the matter of induced potential, but, as is stated by Mr. Newbury, it is not always convenient to do this. As a general rule, 125 volts has been regarded as standard, and we can design and wind the fields and insulate them so as to take care, ordinarily, of 125-volt windings, but when it comes to 250 volts it begins to be a serious matter. The insulation problem is serious. In such cases I have known of this scheme of short circuiting the field to have been the practical solution of the problem, but in general, as pointed out by the author, the short circuiting of the field detracts from the starting torque per input. That being the case, it is extremely desirable to excite at lower potential."
"F. W. Peek, Jr.: The line insulator is an important factor in determining the success or failure of a transmission scheme. The requirements in present insulator specifications in no way provide for uniform porcelain. Destructive puncture tests are generally made on a few selected units which may indicate a very good insulator. On account of the great lack of uniformity in most porcelain these tests do not determine the performance of the bulk of the insulators which are manufactured later and put on the line. It is thus seen that uniformity of the porcelain is one of the most desirable features of a line insulator. I should like to bring out a few points that should be covered. In almost all other engineering work the strength of a given material is known and can be depended upon within a small per cent of the value indicated by test pieces. The material is uniform, and uniformity is a necessity. If structural steel varied a tenth as much as most porcelain used in present line insulators, there could be no “sky scrapers.” Tests then, should be such as to secure uniform porcelain. This might be accomplished by requiring the destructive uniformity test, or the impulse test, made on insulators taken at random from different parts of the kiln at each firing. Again the specifications might require that a certain percentage of the insulators of each kiln at each firing pass the factory test otherwise all the insulators of the kiln at the given firing be condemned. For instance — if in one firing in a given kiln 50 per cent of the insulators fail to pass the factory test, and if in the next firing only 10 per cent fail to pass the factory test, the insulators in firing No. 2 would be much more reliable. A greater percentage would stand voltage rises on the line."
"A DEMAND for specifications which will enable purchasers of rubber insulation to secure good material on the basis of competitive bids has existed for many years."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The war rendering it improbable that adequate international representation can be secured at the International Electrical Congress which it was proposed to hold in San Francisco in September, 1915, the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, acting upon recommendation of the Executive Committee of the Congress Committee on Organization, has declared the Congress to be postponed until such time as it may be found practicable to hold an international electrical congress in the United States of America."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday, October 9, 1914, at 3:30 p.m."
"Have you ever thought what determines the standing of an engineer? Some engineers have attained fame and prominence in their profession and are well known. These men represent the leaders in the profession. Other men have more or less prominence given them by virtue of the positions which they hold. It is usually conceded that a man who holds a leading position on the staff of a large organization must have ability or he would not have been appointed to this position."
"The 299th meeting of the Institute was held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Friday evening, October 9, 1914."
"The 300th meeting of the Institute was held at Philadelphia, in the Engineering Building of the University of Pennsylvania, on October 12, 1914. The program for this meeting had been arranged by the Institute's Committee on the Use of Electricity in Marine Work."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on October 1, 1914, recommended the following Associates for transfer to the grade of Member. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Detroit-Ann Arbor. — October 9, 1914, Detroit Engineering Society Rooms. Subject: Railway Work. Paper: “Electrical Distribution System and Method of Handling Cars at the Michigan Central Tunnel, Detroit, Michigan,” by C. G. Winslow. Attendance 60."
"Mr. S. E. Hutton was recently appointed engineer for the Public Utilities Commission of Idaho, and is now engaged in investigations bearing on light and power rate cases in northern Idaho."
"Stuart Richardson, City Electrical Engineer to the Wellington, N. Z., Corporation, died on September 11, 1914, after a brief illness. Mr. Richardson was born at Swansea, England, January 9, 1863. After spending some years as a young man in Australia he returned to England, and, taking up the study of electrical engineering, entered the Brush Company's works at Loughborough. After gaining an extensive experience with this firm he was appointed Electrical Engineer to the Corporation of the City of Leicester. In 1899 he left England to take up the position of manager for the New Zealand Electrical Syndicate, which then controlled the electric lighting of the city of Wellington. At the termination of his engagement with that company he entered the service of the Wellington Corporation and in 1905 was appointed to the position of Tramway and Electrical Engineer, which he held until his death. Mr. Richardson was elected an Associate of the A.I.E.E. on January 26, 1906. He was a Member of the (British) Institution of Electrical Engineers."
"At the October meeting of the Board of Directors, the Secretary was authorized to establish an employment department, and to publish in the Proceedings, without charge to members, brief announcements of vacancies, and records of available men, these announcements to be furnished by the members concerned, subject to editorial revision under the direction of the Secretary. It is believed that the establishment of this department in the Institute will be greatly appreciated, and that it will be helpful not only to the members desiring employment, but also to those who have vacancies in their staffs."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"This paper outlines the use and limitations of protective reactance coils in feeder circuits. When no feeder reactors are used, doubling up the station capacity increases the number and severity of short circuits. The insertion of feeder reactors cuts down the severity of a short circuit and practically renders the effect local, so that beyond a certain point additional generator capacity does not appreciably increase the severity. Curves are given showing what the effects of feeder reactors are, with and without bus reactors, for generators of various reactances. The advantages that might be gained by parallel operation of feeders are discussed and the difficulties to be encountered are pointed out."
"The paper presents the results of overload and short-circuit tests made several years ago upon some synchronous converters in circuit with auxiliary reactors. Two entirely separate sets of tests upon two synchronous converters of widely different operating characteristics are described. In the one case the reactor is in the a-c. circuit and in the other in the d-c. circuit; yet in each it may be called, and in fact is, a protective reactor. In presenting this original information the author, with a view to indicating its commercial application and hoping to provoke discussion, has endeavored to divide synchronous converter installations in a general way into classes with respect to the need or desirability of employing protective reactance, and also with respect to the general design or type of the reactor to be employed. In order to do this, synchronous converter installations are divided into a few general classes with respect to the character and exactions of the service conditions under which they are required to operate. The paper was written shortly after the tests were made, but although much has been learned or written about protective reactors since that date, the author believes nothing has transpired to affect the value of these tests or to make it necessary to change the form in which it was originally intended to present them."
"The paper presents a very simple method for obtaining speed-time and distance-time curves, which avoids the usual step-by-step process with its tedious calculations. The method consists of plotting certain so-called “service characteristics” upon the diagram of motor characteristics with the speed-current and traction-current curves. The time and distance increments corresponding to assumed speed increments are found by simple divider operations."
"This paper deals with an experimental investigation of the corona around small wires as produced by continuous potentials up to 15,000 volts. The continuous potentials were obtained from a series of 500-volt generators. The wire and coaxial cylinder method was employed for a number of experiments. Critical voltages and characteristic potential difference and current curves were obtained for different sized wires. The effect of lowering the pressure in the cylinder upon appearance of corona, critical voltage, and current, was studied. It was found that the appearance of the corona depended upon the polarity of the wire; positive polarity gave continuous glow, while discontinuous beaded appearance characterized the negative corona, the number of beads being a function of the pressure and the potential difference for a given size wire. A short arc in series affected the nature of the discharge by superimposing a high-frequency current upon the direct current. Characteristic curves were taken to show the effect of varying pressure, moisture and temperature. An increase of pressure inside the closed cylinder was produced by the application of a potential difference greater than the critical value; this increase is due to ionization. Corona in the case of parallel wires was studied by taking characteristic curves and exploring the field. Field exploration showed anode fall of potential greater than cathode. Corona accompanied by mechanical effects on wires; deflection on both wires and circular vibration of positive wire."
"Of a total of ten notable instances of steam railway electrifications in this country, the Butte, Anaconda & Pacific was the first if not the only one in which the prime cause for the change in motive power was an expected decrease in operating expenses sufficient to give immediately a satisfactory earning on the new investment of capital required for the improvement. The preliminary investigations and estimates had indicated a probable annual saving amounting to about 17.5 per cent on the total investment, of which 11 per cent was expected to result from the partial substitution of electrical energy, costing about 0.552 cent per kw-hr. at the secondaries of the substation transformers, for coal of 12,250 B.t.u. calorific value and costing $4.25 per ton delivered. The remaining 6.5 per cent was expected from reduced cost of locomotive maintenance, engine house expense and enginemen's wages. On this prospect, an expenditure of $1,201,000 was made in the electrification of 90 miles of track and in replacing 22 steam locomotives by 17 electric locomotive units which now operate about 80 per cent of the total locomotive-miles. The actual results as indicated by the first six months of full electrical operation show the total net saving in operating expenses to be at the rate of $242,299.12 per year or an earning of 20.02 per cent on the investment, of which the decrease in the cost of coal and power is 12.5 per cent. Other savings are due to decreased cost of locomotive maintenance, engine house expenses, lubricants, supplies and trainmen's wages. The average tons per train hauled by the electric locomotives has increased 33 per cent, the average time per trip decreased 30 per cent, the delays to traffic decreased 41 per cent, the number of trains decreased 25 per cent and the number of engine and train crews decreased 25 per cent."
"W. S. Hadaway: In reading this paper of Mr. Mauger's, the first omission that strikes me is the practical elimination of the electric laundry on board ship. It has been my experience that the adoption of electrically heated laundry machines, such as body ironers, combination ironers, as well as hand irons are an essential part of the equipment for the comfort of the men on an extended cruise."
"G. A. Pierce, Jr.: We do not agree with the author that the American navy has been the most conspicuous exception to the limited use of electricity in marine work. In 1902 on the Russian battleship Retvizan, building at the time the U. S. S. Maine was building, the generating plant was 528 kw. compared to 328 kw. on the Maine. Remote control contactors were used exclusively in connection with turret turning, ammunition hoists, elevating and rammers, which at that time had not been contemplated in the American navy and only used to a limited extent in this country. Six-inch bilge pumps were operated by 60-kw. motors, six in number; electric steering gear; electrically driven forced draft fans; six-pounder and three-inch ammunition hoist operated by remote control — none of which was in use or contemplated at that time in the American navy. Furthermore, the step-by-step motion for interior communication apparatus, recently adopted by our navy, was used. The majority of the systems were copied from the French navy at that time. Prior to the adoption of electric heating in the U. S. navy ships, several merchant vessels were thus heated, not only in America but in England, and the extended use and development has been retarded owing to the lack of engineering in connection with these early installations. Electric steering gears, windlass and capstans and in fact, every use in which electricity is at present employed, has been previously used both in merchant marine and other navies."
"John B. Taylor: As Mr. Eden makes no mention of changing the construction which has been followed for a long while, from Y to delta, as he advances no argument for doing it, and as I do not think that anybody has good argument for doing it, it seems that the matter is fairly well settled. The discussions which have held so long on transformers have never come up on generators, and to that extent the work is standardized in part and in a more satisfactory state."
"W. S. Moody: I think that manufacturers and designers of transformers owe a great deal to Mr. Roper for the preparation of this excellent paper; not only because of the information that it contains as to experiences and opinions, but because it is a little unusual to give so fully the experience of the user of apparatus, to the manufacturer. However scientifically and carefully apparatus may be designed, there are, of necessity, a great many things that nothing but service will demonstrate, and the manufacturer cannot benefit by that experience in service to any great extent without the very complete assistance of the operating man, and that assistance is not always available. The operating man is rather inclined to look at these figures as his private property, and the manufacturer does not get the full benefit of them."
"Waldo V. Lyon (by letter): The interesting fact that Mr. Clinker notes in regard to the possibility of a third-harmonic voltage existing between the lines of a three-phase circuit was observed by the writer some time since, and was used as the basis of one of the problems in a collection∗ recently published by him. These third-harmonic components in the line voltages are equal but differ in phase by 120 degrees (third-harmonic scale) so that the circuit should respond to their influence in the same way that it would if sinusoidal voltages of three times the fundamental frequency were impressed upon it. This might produce serious results especially in transmission lines, if the harmonics were of sufficient magnitude. This phase difference in the third harmonic makes the resulting three-phase voltages dissimilar as Mr. Clinker points out. Their effective values, however, are equal."
"Guido Semenza (by letter): Italy is one of the countries of Europe which has largely developed the electric transmission of power from hydroelectric installation. In fact there are in Italy, the area of which is about double that of the State of New York, more than 2400 hydroelectric power houses, nearly all of them provided with transmission and distribution lines. It may be of some interest to you to know the general opinion in this country on the problem under discussion."
"Upon the request of the Philadelphia Section the Board of Directors has authorized an Institute meeting to be held in Philadelphia on Monday, October 12, 1914, under the auspices of the Philadelphia Section and the Committee on Use of Electricity in Marine Work. This committee announces that three papers have been promised for presentation at this meeting, as follows: “The Electrical Equipment of the Argentine Battleship Moreno”, by H. A. Hornor, “Submarine Signaling”, by Prof. R. A. Fessenden, and “Electrical Features of the U. S. Reclamation Service”, by F. H. Newell."
"The American Institute of Electrical Engineers expects to inaugurate an active campaign for new members. We hope every member will read the articles as they appear each month and do his part to “boost” the Institute. The following letter to President Lincoln gives our preliminary plan and the chairman will be glad to receive suggestions. Our efforts to secure new members, while active, must be such as to maintain the dignity of the Institute and promote all of its interests."
"The Board of Directors of the Institute held its first meeting for the administrative year which began August 1, in New York, on Tuesday, August 11, 1914, at 3:30 p.m."
"The Committee on Local Affairs of the International Engineering Congress, San Francisco, September 20th to 25th, 1915, has secured an option on one hundred rooms in the three leading hotels of San Francisco, distributed as follows:"
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on August 6, 1914, recommended the following Associates for transfer to the grade of Member. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Highland Park College. — May 20, 1914. Main College Building. Subject; High Tension Transmission. Short addresses as follows; “The Design of High Tension Transmission Lines”, by John Gailunar, and “The Grounding of High Tension Lines”, by Earl Wetzel. Attendance 16. June 18, 1914, College Inn. Informal banquet presided over by Dean A. Shane. Attendance 16."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"San Francisco, July 7th, 1914. To the Railroad Commission of the State of California, San Francisco, California."
"The paper describes operating conditions on the 150,000-volt transmission line of the Pacific Light and Power Corporation which delivers power from the Big Creek hydroelectric development to Los Angeles, Cal., 240 miles away. In daily operation 60,000 kw. are generated, utilizing a total hydraulic head of 4000 ft., in two steps. Plans for the future contemplate the building of two more power houses, operating under somewhat lower heads. Of particular interest is the complete success of the constant potential system, i. e., operation at the same voltage at the generating and receiving stations, by means of synchronous condensers at the receiving end, in conjunction with automatic voltage regulators, one for each condenser as well as for the generators at each of the power houses. The line has been operated with unusual freedom from short circuits. Appendixes describe the development of the system, and give data relating to the equipment of the Big Creek transmission line."
"THE idea of a technical course for engineers is relatively new. Like most new things it has had to prove its merit in order to secure proper recognition. It received little sympathy in its beginnings, and even today, when education for definite vocations has won its long battle, many of the older men are apt to think that what was good enough for them, ought to be good enough for any one. The headway made by the technical course in recent years shows that it is here to stay; it has definite merit and a definite place in education. I do not undertake to say that the old-fashioned “arts course” has no merit or that it may not form a good foundation for an engineering course in cases where a man has time to pursue both branches of learning. One problem only is considered in this paper. Is the classical-scientific or the technical course the better for the engineering student? The subjects included in a technical course are those immediately connected with the application or expression of science."
"THE range of thought embraced by this comprehensive subject is so great that only some few phases of it can be even mentioned here. I shall therefore restrict myself to the expression of views concerning the best possible method of training electrical engineers, of producing electrical engineers, who are at the same time thoroughly educated men of the world:"
"BETWEEN the two titles given me for this brief paper, namely, “Classical-Scientific versus the Purely Technical University Course for the Electrical Engineer” and “Why an Electrical Engineer should be Broadly Educated,” I have taken the liberty of naming a third as the heading for my remarks — “Should an Electrical Engineer Be Broadly Educated?”"
"H. H. Clark: The first requirements of portable electric lamps are safety, and the capacity for uninterrupted production of a sufficient amount of light. I wish to emphasize, however, that from the viewpoint of the mine operator, a lamp to be successful must be able to operate day after day with a reasonable amount of repairs and replacement. If this is to be accomplished the lamp battery must be a very sturdy affair. Failure of the battery plates will result in annoying delays and expensive repairs. A dependable battery is indispensable to satisfactory performance."
"W. W. Miller: Referring to Mr. Eaton's paper, it may be of interest to note that a mine locomotive of 14,000 lb. weight with a single motor chain drive was built in 1886, and installed in the anthracite field. This locomotive was in daily operation until 1909, and although preserved since then for its associations and historical interest, it is still used in the mines whenever required by emergencies."
"F. L. Stone: There is one line of control on which Mr. Reed has touched very lightly. That is the handling of 2200 volts. This voltage is coming more in use every day, and must be controlled in a safe and efficient manner. The use of oil-immersed switches was the first method tried, but where the operation is frequent and the service severe, as in the case of the mine hoist, either of the slope or shaft type, it does not work out as well as might be hoped. The frequent rupturing of the arc carbonizes the oil, and will eventually cause an are-over. This comes without any warning to the operator, and usually puts the switch out of commission. Another cause of damage to oil-immersed switches when operated frequently is, that a body of gas will form on top of the oil and finally a hot bubble will arise, and if the proper proportions of air are present a violent explosion will occur, this frequently wrecking the tank, and putting the switch out of commission until repairs can be made. The ordinary oil switch such as used on a switchboard for control of various circuits may be called upon to operate two or three times a day. A switch to control a hoist operating two trips a minute will operate approximately 1000 times a day in eight hours. In the first case the oil-immersed switch is entirely satisfactory, while in the latter case such information as I have been able to gather seems to indicate that it is entirely unsatisfactory."
"W. A. Thomas: Unquestionably from the standpoint of economy the synchronous converter is superior to the motor-generator set, but in a careful analysis of the mining conditions, and the ultimate results to be accomplished, the question of the kilowatt-hours per ton in transformed energy constitutes a relatively small proportion of the total cost. The method of distribution of the direct current which has been converted has a great bearing on this question. As pointed out in Mr. Hoen's paper, the energy in the small mine is carried through one opening which is the main entry, and when the bituminous mine, particularly, as distinguished from the anthracite mine, comes to the commercial condition requiring electric haulage, the power is mainly consumed some distance from the entry. The distance of the point of consumption from the mine entry in the average bituminous field is probably upwards of a mile."
"Gentlemen: — In accordance with Section 24 of the by-laws of the Institute, the Library Committee begs leave to submit herewith its report for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1914, showing the general condition of the library, and including the names of all donors to it."
"The 299th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, on Friday, October 9th, at 8:15 p.m. The general subject of the meeting will be “Protective Reactances,” and two papers will be presented, as follows: Protective Reactances for Feeder Circuits of Large City Power Systems, by Messrs. James Lyman, Leslie L. Perry, and A. M. Rossman, and Use of Reactance with Synchronous Converters, by J. L. McK. Yardley."
"Have you thought what the Institute means to you? Have you told a fellow engineer about it this fall? Don't wait until after Christmas, start now. In case your memory is rusty after the vacation period, I have summarized a few of the reasons for joining the A.I.E.E. You can easily add more; then repeat them to others. Make it a point to say a good word for the Institute whenever you have a chance."
"The sixth annual Pacific Coast Convention of the A. I. E. E. was held in Spokane, Washington, September 9th, 10th, and 11th, 1914, the two following days being devoted to trips to power plants."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute, Unless otherwise indicated the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before October 31, 1914."
"Mr. George B. Tripp recently resigned his position as general manager of the Harrisburg Light and Power Company, Harrisburg, Pa., to become an operating executive of the United Gas and Electric Corporation, 61 Broadway, New York."
"Henry Heim, operator for the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Company, was accidentally killed on August 18, 1914, in that company's new wireless station near Bolinas, California. He was a young electrical engineer of promising ability and fine character. He was to have been elected an Associate of the Institute, but before his election was formally completed the news of his untimely death was received."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Introduction THE constitution of this Institute prescribes that the president “shall deliver an address at the annual convention.” The duty thereby assigned to the president becomes one of his last official ones, when the annual convention falls so near the end of the term of office, as it has in the last few years."
"THE present report is an analysis of the engineering data received from 25 power companies, operating high-tension transmission systems, in answer to a printed list of questions prepared by the High-Tension Transmission Committee of the year 1912–1913, and sent by that committee to 105 power companies operating at 25,000 volts and over."
"The following specification was prepared by the High-Tension Transmission Committee of 1912–13, and was revised by the Engineering Data Committee of 1913–14. The committees preparing and revising this specification were as follows:"
"Transformer connections under the following three conditions are discussed: The railway; (1) purchases power; (2) builds and operates the generating and transmission systems; (3) purchases power and in addition builds and operates a secondary transmission system. The choice between delta and Y connection is frequently determined by purely economic considerations. However, it is common practise to use the delta connection on both the high- and low-tension sides of transformers, except in the case of six-phase converters, where the diametrical connection on the low-tension side is the rule. Synchronous converter substations employing two machines in series for high-voltage d-c. railways, are frequently operated from single banks of transformers, which have double windings on the low-tension sides. Methods of starting have little effect upon transformer connections except in the case of six-phase converters. Transformer connections are seldom important electrically in single-phase and three-phase railway systems. A secondary distribution system may at first be delta connected and later changed over to Y connection to obtain better voltage regulation."
"This paper describes the electrical installation of one of the two Argentine battleships building in this country and now nearing completion. The methods of installation and distribution of energy; the extensive application, far surpassing any vessel so far constructed in this country, and the results secured by departure from present practise; all these are concisely recorded. Detailed descriptions are given of important and unusual equipments such as steering gear, anchor windlass, searchlights, gyro-compass, etc., etc."
"Submarine signaling has been greatly advanced by the introduction of a powerful sound transmitter and receiver called the “Fessenden telegraph oscillator.” By means of this, telegraph messages can be sent and received through the water by moving ships and for short distances speech can be transmitted, icebergs can be located, and soundings taken instantaneously. The apparatus consists of an oscillating electric motor-generator which has a strong electromagnet surrounding a central core on which is an alternating-current winding. Between the core and the magnet is a copper tube which acts as a closed secondary to the core winding. This copper tube is attached to a large diaphragm. When the alternating current passes through the core winding it induces a current in the copper tube, which, being free to move, vibrates back and forth, thus setting the diaphragm in vibration. This apparatus is installed in a ship so that the face of the diaphragm is in contact with the water and its vibrations set up sound waves in the water. Signals have been sent a distance of 31 miles. The oscillator can also be used as a receiver. Sound waves striking against the diaphragm cause the copper tube to vibrate, thereby generating a current in itself which is induced in the core winding. A telephone receiver in the armature circuit enables the observer to hear the sound."
"The operations of the U. S. Reclamation Service are of interest to electrical engineers not only in some of the novel developments and applications of power but also as illustrating the efforts of the federal government in the construction of works of general public utility. One of the most interesting features is the question of cost of government work, much of which in this case is executed under pioneer conditions. These costs are carefully recorded and include all of the overhead or general expenses. These costs show that during 1913, for the various plants there was a range from 0.68 cent per kelvin or kw-hr. up to 2.873 cents. The power not needed for construction purposes or for operating irrigation works is being sold at rates of 1.5 cents per kw-hr. being for excess power as low as 0.5 cent up to 2 cents or over. For heating the rate charged per month June 1 to September 1 per device per 1,000 watts is $1.50. The experience obtained is illustrating the fact that it is practicable for the government to build and operate plants of this kind and sell the power at cost, in connection with other enterprises and with general satisfaction to the consumer. The power plants will be paid for without profit or interest and the operations transferred as soon as practicable to the communities benefited by them."
"A paper on “The Electrolytic Corrosion of Reinforced Concrete” by C. E. Magnusson and G. H. Smith was read before the A. I. E. E. June 30, 1911, and, as stated in that paper, the results could not be pronounced entirely conclusive, as the duration of the experiments was only 30 days. In the present paper a similar series of experiments is described by the authors in which the tests were continued for several months. The paper gives in tabular form the result of a large number of experiments and the conclusions corroborate the results reported in the former paper. For the current density covered by the experiments, the current was found to produce no change in the compressive strength of concrete cubes, from which it is deduced that the failures of reinforced concrete due to electrolysis are due entirely to the forces produced by the increase of volume when iron is changed into iron oxide, and not by any direct action of the current upon the concrete."
"J. W. Lieb, Jr : I am sure that under the conditions obtaining in our larger cities the figure given by the author, of $35 per kilowatt of capacity, will not cover the real estate and buildings of a character to satisfy local conditions. The sum of $35, even if otherwise adequate, which I doubt, would allow the merest shell of a building rather than such a structure as it would be necessary to provide to house a plant of the capacity indicated by the author."
"Charles W. Burrows: I would like to call attention to a few points in which I am not in complete agreement with the author. In the first place, Tables I to IV used in the calculation of the magnetic field are given out to the sixth place of decimals. As the assumptions made in the computations did not seem to warrant such precision I recalculated some of the results by a more precise formula, as follows:"
"E. E. F. Creighton: There has been very little work done on the direct study of cloud lightning, and therefore this paper may be considered as a turning point. There is no committee at the present time of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers or of the National Electric Light Association which will give this subject the study that is needed. Perhaps the problem is important enough to receive the attention of the Bureau of Standards, and it would be an excellent one for that bureau to take up. It requires not only an organization of trained laboratory men, but also men who can develop instruments as they are required by the conditions that become apparent."
"J. Murray Weed: The steepest wave fronts which are produced in the practical operation of electrical systems are those caused by the sudden making or breaking of a circuit. A discharge to ground would come under this classification, although this may not constitute the making of a circuit which it is desired to make. It does not seem likely, however, that the making of a circuit, which takes place by the rupturing of air, oil, or some other dielectric, would result in the rectangular waves which are presented in Dr. Franklin's paper. When we consider the velocity of 186,000 miles a second, it becomes obvious that a phenomenon which is instantaneous, so far as our ability to measure time is concerned, may distribute its effects over a very considerable length of a transmission line. Furthermore, it is my belief that if, by any means, a perfectly abrupt or sheer wave front were produced in a transmission line, it would be very rapidly decomposed, and that at a considerable distance from the point of its formation it would have become considerably tapered."
"J. B. Whitehead (by letter): Professor Davis's paper is noteworthy as being the first thorough-going attempt to explain the phenomena of corona formation in terms of the theory of ionization. In each of the papers of my series on The Electric Strength of Air, I have stated my opinion that the phenomena in question would ultimately be explained in terms of that theory. Professor Davis is the first, however, to offer to the Institute a theory which begins from the fundamental relations given by Professor J. S. Townsend, the originator of the theory of ionization by collision, as the explanation of all electric discharges in gases. Professor Davis makes a number of assumptions which will require careful investigation before acceptance. Among these is that which states as the critical condition for corona formation that the density of ionization at the surface of the wire should reach a constant value. In the process leading up to the arrival at this value he assumes a continuous generation of new ions by collision beginning a certain distance from the wire and accumulating in time through successive cycles of the alternating electric intensity. If this is true, should there not be evidence of ionization for values of voltage just short of the corona-forming value? Our experiments have indicated no such preliminary ionization."
"J. B. Whitehead (by letter): In conjunction with Professor Bennett's paper∗ last year at Cooperstown, the present paper completes a description of the equipment with which he has obtained his interesting and valuable results on the corona. The transformer which he describes, by offering a means for measuring the corona current, should open up a wide field of investigation. The possibility, as demonstrated by Professor Bennett, of neutralizing the charging current is especially valuable."
"The 293d meeting of the Institute will be held in Pittsburgh, Pa., on Thursday and Friday, April 9 and 10, 1914, under the auspices of the Committee on the Use of Electricity in Mines and the Pittsburgh Section."
"Gentlemen: This committee has counted and canvassed, in accordance with Article VI of the Constitution, the nomination ballots received for officers of the Institute for 1914–1915. The result is as follows:"
"At the first meeting of the men now constituting the Joint National Committee on Electrolysis, held in New York on May 27, 1913, it was decided, owing to the fact that certain national associations had not at that time appointed representatives to serve on the committee, to have a temporary organization only, and await the meeting of the full committee before perfecting a permanent organization."
"The second Midwinter Convention of the Institute, held this year under the auspices of the Electric Power Committee, opened on the morning of Wednesday, February 25, and closed with the session on Friday afternoon, February 27. The sessions were held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York. There were 16 papers and reports presented, several of the reports embodying separate short papers by different authors, each devoted to some subdivision of the main subject."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday, March 13, 1914."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on March 10, 1914, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grades of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"A meeting of the Boston Section was held in Tremont Temple on the evening of February 4, 1914. Three illustrated papers were presented on the subject Recent Developments and Present Tendencies in Railroad Work as follows:"
"Mr. W. S. Murray was on March 16 appointed by the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company to be consulting engineer in general charge of all electrical engineering and construction, reporting to President Hustis, with oiffices at New Haven. Mr. Murray, following the substantial completion of the construction of the system for complete electrical operation west of New Haven, will enter into closer relations with the railroad company. His jurisdiction will hereafter be extended to include also the electrical features of operation in addition to electrical construction. He will continue with the firm of McHenry and Murray in general consulting practise as before."
"Edwin James Houston, Ph. D., Member and Past-President of the A. I. E. E., died of heart disease at his home in Philadelphia on March 1, 1914. Professor Houston was born in Alexandria, Va., July 9, 1847, and educated principally in the public schools and in the Central High School of Philadelphia, which school he was to serve long and faithfully as professor of physical geography and natural philosophy."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The paper traces, largely by means of pictures, the course that has been followed in developing the mine locomotive to its present condition. The paper is limited to locomotives for operation in coal mines. The two main factors which have directed the development are, first, the demand for increased entry capacity, and second, the exploitation of thin seams. The early machines were high, and of irregular outline, whereas later machines are compact and strong, yet accessible, and easily inspected and overhauled. Various types of framing are illustrated. Locomotives with two and three axles in rigid wheel base, and also tandem locomotives are shown and described. Reference is made to various methods of connecting the motors by which the adhesive weight is used to full advantage. Gathering locomotives, with vertical and horizontal reels, both axle-driven and with independent electric drive, are illustrated, and some of the problems of gathering work are briefly discussed. There is also brief reference to various types of motors with different methods of lubrication, as well as some reference to sleeve vs. frictionless bearings. The paper closes with a few tendency curves, and attention is called to the lines of future development, which these curves apparently indicate."
"The theory of the corona developed in this paper explains the coronal discharge by the application of the known laws of the discharge of electricity through gases. The experiments of Dr. Whitehead and Mr. F. W. Peek and others have shown that the surface gradient Xs at the surface of a smooth wire necessary to start the corona increases very greatly as the radius of the wires decreases. As an illustration of this increase it is found that the coronal gradient Xs at the surface of a wire 0.5 cm. radius is 46,000 volts per cm., while a gradient of 97,000 volts per cm. is required for a wire of 0.02 cm. radius. The phenomenon is due to ionization by impact. The ions n0 move in toward the wire from the place at which they cross a region where the gradient is X0 = 26,600 volts per cm. up to the wire. They produce other ions, and n ions arrive at the wire. The condition for the corona is that n shall be a constant. If α = the number of ions that one ion produces in a cm., then $n = n_{0} e^{\\int^{b}_{a} \\alpha^{-}dx}$ The α is a function of X at every point. This function is expressed in terms of x. It is introduced into the above equation, and on integration the equation for the corona is obtained. The equation also contains a term for the density of the air. The equation thus takes account of changes of pressure such as altitude and temperature effects. The equation when plotted in a curve for the variation of Xs with the radius of the wire, agrees with the experimental results of Whitehead and Peek with as great accuracy as the experimental results would warrant."
"The paper treats of the true wave phenomena which take place on a transmission line when switches are opened and closed or when a circuit breaker operates. These phenomena are practically the same in alternating- and direct-current systems for transmission lines up to say 150 or 200 mi. (240 or 320 km.) in length, and therefore the surges which are described in the paper are the surges which take place when a steady voltage is connected to the line or when the line is disconnected with a steady current flowing in it. The details of line surging which takes place under such conditions are most easily described in terms of what may be called the “ribbon wave”, and the first part of the paper is devoted to a discussion of the ribbon wave. Then a number of practical examples are described in detail."
"A description is given of investigations conducted for a large manufacturer of explosives to determine upon a suitable system of lightning protection for buildings containing explosives. The work is divided into the following sections: (1) An analysis by oscillograph of the secondary currents induced by actual lightning discharges in vertical earthed conductors, the results seeming to indicate that such currents are non-oscillatory and aperiodic, though occurring in either a negative or positive direction. An attempt is made to explain the phenomena generally attributed to high frequency oscillations by the existence of uni-directional waves of almost vertical front. (2) An investigation of the primary effects of a 20-in. spark in air having the same essential characteristics as those attributed to lightning when applied to a model protective system consisting of isolated vertical conductors surrounding a small building. (3) An investigation of the secondary effects produced under the above conditions, which are considered to be static inductive rather than dynamic inductive. A brief description is given of a general protective system recommended for explosives buildings."
"The paper is devoted to discussion of the advisable types of control to be used for various mining equipment, particularly in bituminous coal mines. Complexity and theoretical details have been eliminated as far as practicable with the idea of impressing on the reader the need for certain definite features, without going into the theoretical details of these features. Electric controllers for equipment outside of the mine proper as a rule have to meet different operating conditions than those controllers which are installed underground. The operating conditions are taken up in detail and proper control equipment is suggested to meet these conditions. The object of the paper is to bring out clearly to the mine operatives the fact that suitable control equipment is just as important as the installation of a suitable motor, and moreover that no motor, however well adapted to the service, will stand up properly if it is not operated with a controller designed and built specifically to meet the existing installation and operating conditions."
"Maxwell's law for the attraction between the halves of a bar electromagnet is not correct for electromagnets of the plunger type with air gaps between the cores because the flux in the cores is, to a large extent, independent of the reluctance in the air gap on account of the magnetic leakage from the inner end of either core back to the other end of the same core. In this paper, only the characteristics of direct-current electromagnets are discussed. An attempt is made to show the correct law of attraction for tractive electromagnets and to calculate the value of the magnetizing force at any point along the axis of any solenoid. Test characteristics are given to support the theories. The work done by an electromagnet of the plunger type in closing its air gap is largely proportional to the length of the air gap, although, when the reluctance of the air gap and the total m.m.f. are of low value, the law of Carichoff is approximately correct for the total attraction."
"(1) It is pointed out that by the use of a current transformer having a primary to secondary current ratio of the order of 1 to 100, oscillograms can be obtained of the charging current of a single high-tension insulator or of a few feet of high-tension transmission line; that is, oscillograms of currents of the order of 0.1 to 0.5 milliampere may be obtained. (2) The drawing and specification are given for a transformer for this purpose. (3) The transformer relations are discussed; the methods of determining the transformer constants are outlined, and the performance of transformers constructed in accordance with the specifications is determined. (4) A series of oscillograms is given to illustrate some of the applications of the transformer, such as to the study of corona, high-tension insulators, and leakage currents in evacuated lamps."
"The use of electricity in mines has been making rapid progress throughout the United States. Steam and compressed air are being superseded largely by central station power. Power from a central station requires a substation to supply direct current to operate locomotives, cutting machines, etc. A substation is used to transform high-voltage a-c. power to direct current at 250 or 500 volts. Substations, when possible, should be located on the surface, because if located underground there is danger from fire, and dampness weakens insulation and causes corrosion of metallic parts. Construction of an underground substation is more costly than on the surface, as there is danger of the roof giving way. The roof should be arched, or built of heavy concrete and the whole station made fireproof. When substations are located underground it is necessary to carry a high-tension cable through bore-holes. When located on the surface a low-tension cable can be used. Many accidents occur because of incompetent men. Good salaries should be paid and competent men obtained. Danger warnings should be posted and men taught to consider wires as being “live”, thereby lessening accidents."
"The considerable number of mine explosions caused by defects of the Davy safety lamps has encouraged the development of electric lamps. Satisfactory results, however, have been obtained only since the invention of the tungsten lamp, permitting the use of smaller storage batteries. The general requirements for electric lamps are: absolute safety, uninterrupted production of light for at least one shift, and a foolproof design. Prizes offered by the British Government in 1912 for the best electric lamp, resulted in 197 different constructions being submitted. The first prize was awarded to a German lamp, which since that time has been used with great success all over Europe and which is also being introduced in this country. The construction of this lamp, consisting of several types for different requirements, and the methods of handling it in actual service, are fully described. Some figures covering repairs and renewals are given. In concluding, the author mentions the only objection that can be raised against electric portable mine lamps, that they cannot be used as detectors of mine gases, as Davy lamps can, and says that for this purpose devices distinctly separate from the lamp will have to be adopted."
"H. Ward Leonard: I should like to put before the meeting what I think are a few of the desirable features we should strive to reach in an automatic lighting system for charging a storage battery and operating the lights upon a motor car, and I think the same conditions, so far as the automatic lighting and charging are concerned, may apply equally well to the case of train lighting. These are very broad generalities that I shall specify and while, in each case, they may have been already realized in some one of the various systems, I am not sure that there is upon the market at the moment any one system that contains them all. The points to which I refer are as follows:"
