"Early in the present year there was an informal conference held in New York at which the establishment of a volunteer reserve corps of engineers for the United States Army, representing all branches of the engineering profession, was discussed. The following five national engineering societies were represented: American Institute of Consulting Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Mining Engineers, American Society of Civil Engineers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"The Annual Meeting of the Institute (309th meeting) was held in the evening of May 18, 1915, in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York."
"At the conclusion of the annual business meeting of the Institute in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on May 18, 1915, occurred the ceremony of presentation of the Edison Medal to Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, the inventor of the telephone. The presentation was witnessed by a large audience of members of the Institute, telephone engineers, and ladies. One of the enjoyable features of the occasion was the music by the Blue Bell Orchestra of the New York Telephone Society."
"The Engineering Foundation, the first public announcement of which was made at a meeting in the Engineering Societies Building on January 27, 1915, reported in the February Proceedings, held its first regular meeting on May 25. At this meeting Rules of Administration were adopted and the following officers were elected: chairman, Gano Dunn; vice-chairman, Edward D. Adams; secretary, F. R. Hutton; treasurer, Joseph Struthers."
"Delegates from about twenty national technical and scientific societies met in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th Street, New York City, on May 21, 1915, to perfect a permanent organization, the purpose being to prepare a classification of the literature of applied science which might be generally accepted and adopted by these and other organizations."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Tuesday, May 18, at 3:00 p.m."
"Baltimore. — April 10, 1915, U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. Visit to United States Experimental Station and Electrical Laboratories. Baseball game between Naval Cadets and Colgate University. Attendance 18."
"Mr. P. J. Murphy, engineer with Ford, Bacon and Davis, has been elected vice-president and general manager of the Lackawanna and Wyoming Valley Railroad Company, with offices at Scranton, Pa."
"Owen C. F. Hague of McGill University, Montreal, Lieutenant in the Canadian forces, died of wounds received in action, in Belgium, on May 3, 1915. Lieut. Hague was born in Montreal February 23, 1889. After preparatory training in Montreal High School, he studied at McGill University, and received the degree of B. Sc. in Electrical Engineering in 1909. For the following two years he was an engineering apprentice with the Canadian Westinghouse Company at Hamilton, Ontario, and then began his work at McGill University for the M. Sc. degree and as demonstrator in the Electrical Laboratory."
"The Board of Examiners, at its meetings on May 14 and May 17, 1915, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grades of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than 50 words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Form factor is significant in the study of transformer losses; as is well known, hysteresis loss is small when the form factor is large and vice versa. Every wave shape has a definite value of form factor; but the converse is not true, for a particular value of form factor does not indicate a particular wave shape. A wave may contain a third harmonic equal to seventy five per cent. of the fundamental and still have the same form factor as a true sine wave. Form factor, therefore, has no general significance as an indicator of wave form or wave distortion. A general expression for form factor is derived in terms of the relative amplitudes and phase positions of its harmonic components; curves are drawn showing the variation of form factor with the amplitude and phase of the third harmonic. Various wave forms are shown, very unlike in appearance, having the same form factor."
"A. discussion of the significance and usefulness of deviation, peak factor, harmonic factor and curve factor, is followed by a similar discussion of the differential distortion factor δ (which is the distortion factor of the Standardization Rules) and a corresponding integral distortion factor σ defined in this paper. Each factor has its own significance as a numerical measure of the departure of an irregular wave from a pure sine wave and hence has a special usefulness for special purposes, as well as a general usefulness as an indicator of wave distortion. A possible factor combining δ and σ is suggested. The variation of different factors with the phase, amplitude and frequency of harmonics is given. All the factors vary with the amplitudes of the harmonics; some factors are independent of their phase positions, while other factors are independent of their frequencies. Each factor has, therefore, its own characteristics. The importance of δ and σ and their combination is enhanced by the possibility of their use in alternating-current theory and calculation."
"The solution which is usual in case of sinusoidal currents for series circuits containing R, L and C may be modified by the introduction of current distortion factors δ′ and σ′ so as to hold for non-sinusoidal currents. The usual solution for parallel circuits may likewise be modified by similar voltage distortion factors, δ and σ. In Part I. the general analytical solution for series circuits is followed by a corresponding graphical solution and a discussion of special cases. In Part II. the general analytical solution for parallel circuits is likewise followed by a graphical solution and special cases. In both series and in parallel circuits, not only are the effects of L and of C changed in value by distortion, but these effects are changed, relatively, in phase and are no longer in exact phase opposition as in case of sinusoidal currents and voltages. The mathematical transformations on which the solutions are based are given in an appendix."
"The object of this paper is to show the storage capacity of grain at the terminals of Port Arthur and Fort William, the rated horse power capacity of prime movers, the amount of power used to turn out a given quantity of grain, and the power used by different machines in the process. In addition it gives the details of different plants as regards construction and operation and the method of receiving and shipping grain. It gives a comparison between steam and electrically-driven plants as regards convenience, maintenance, operation and cost. As regards the station end, it shows the layout of different stations, the cost of installation, the operation and in some instances, the cost of power. It will be shown in the paper that the cost of handling grain varies, and the reason is fully described. On account of the grain handling season being of short duration, it is the intention of certain companies, to install turbo-generators to overcome the necessity of paying on a peak demand basis. By installing two or more units the operating expenses would be cut to a minimum. With the use of steam power this is impossible."
"This paper is to serve as an introduction to a discussion on the subject of Fields of Motor Application. An industry is defined from an economic standpoint and a list of the principal industries is given. The special points of interest in an industry are given and these are expanded to cover most of the items which would be of interest in investigating an industry from the standpoint of the application of electric motors."
"This paper discusses the theory of the cathode ray tube wattmeter and shows how it can be used to determine directly the power factors of insulations. The current and voltage are measured independently so that the dielectric losses in insulation can be calculated. Such measurements can be made up to the breakdown voltage of the material being tested. The development of the cathode ray tube and its auxiliary apparatus is discussed. Measurements of dielectric losses, power factors, and currents, for varnished cloths and oil-treated pressboard are given. The measurements have been made at 60 cycles at different voltages, temperatures, and moisture contents in the case of pressboard. Curves are given showing the losses, power factors, and currents plotted against voltage, temperature, and per cent absorbed moisture. Empirical equations are derived for all the curves. It is shown that watt losses may vary from the 1.32 to the 2.52 power of the voltage. The losses and currents can be expressed by an equation of the form; K1 + K2 Yn, where Y may be temperature in deg. cent. or per cent absorbed moisture. The same form of equation holds for the power factors up to about 85 per cent. The equations given show that the exponent n may vary from about four to seven, depending on the conditions of the tests and on the nature of the insulations. The large and harmful effects of moisture are clearly shown by the results, and the weakening effects due to high temperature are of much importance."
"Concrete tower foundations of mushroom type, requiring no forms or back filling, as used in recent Baltimore-Holtwood transmission line, are found to be cheaper and stronger than steel tripod foundations previously used in a similar line alongside. It was found that mushroom type concrete foundations could be built with a smaller construction force and at lower cost, and more rapidly, than certain types of concrete foundations requiring forms and back filling. The procedure of digging holes and concreting of mushroom type foundations is described. Method of erecting transmission towers by the use of a shear leg is described in some detail."
"As tower anchors have been somewhat overlooked causing in some instances much loss, these notes are written to call attention to the importance of properly designing them so that the maximum strength of tower may be obtained with the most economical outlay. The notes show: 1. A method of figuring the loads to be resisted by the anchors. 2. The importance of resisting the horizontal as well as the vertical loads. 3. The effect of the shape of the anchor on strength of tower. 4. Various types commonly used. 5. The economy of the use of an all-steel anchor."
"The development of the type of all-steel tower footing used by the Alabama Power Company for their 110,000-volt double-circuit steel tower transmission lines is outlined with a summary of the conditions influencing the designs finally arrived at."
"In this paper the author briefly emphasizes the fact that the weakest link of any transmission system is the line, and that this part of the plant has never been given the consideration it deserves. Towers are strongly advocated for important trunk lines, and certain conditions to be met in the design of same are given. The use of concrete footings is recommended in preference to those of metal set directly in the ground."
"Reasons are given for the selection of initial inductances as a means for calibrating current transformers, the most important of which is the wide use to which they may be put besides the calibration of current transformers. The design and manufacture of the apparatus is described, reasons being given for the choice of the form of the secondary coils of the mutual inductances which is a uniformly wound ring, and of the material used for the core, namely marble. The formula used in calculating the values of mutual inductance is given and its limitations stated. Variations in physical dimensions are given and errors in calculated values discussed. The method of calibrating the mutual inductances is described which illustrates also one method of using the apparatus for measuring mutual inductance. The method of measuring rates and phase-displacements by means of the apparatus, and the merits of various instrument-for obtaining a balance are described and discussed. An artificial method of loading the transformers under test is proposed. Its advantages are pointed out. The use of the apparatus for measuring mutual inductance, self inductance and alternating current resistance is described. In conclusion it is stated that the apparatus has been satisfactory, and has given little difficulty in manufacture."
"The paper discusses the principles and theory of operation of the induction watt-hour meter. The problem of the meter broadly stated is to construct an electric motor the speed of the rotating member of which shall be directly proportional to the electric energy supplied to its windings, such proportionality to be maintained for all conditions of operation. The method of compensation is discussed and also the effect of change in frequency and wave shape. The rotating field principle on which some foreign instruments are based is treated mathematically and the construction of the shifting field meter is also described."
"The paper recites the details and cost of construction of the contact systems as originally installed and subsequently modified and extended, including third rail, third rail insulators, protection, joint and cross bonding, track bonding and trolley structure. Operating experiences, as creepage of third rail, sleet formation on third rail, deterioration of rail bonds and detentions to train movements chargeable to failure of these structures, are related. The cost of maintaining the various contact structures for seven consecutive years, in cost per single track mile per year, is presented. Results of actual measurement of third rail and track resistances are also given."
"This paper, written with special reference to the New Haven electrification, gives a brief analysis of the systems and points to be considered in equipping trunk lines with overhead catenary construction. The paper is sub-divided into five parts, viz: catenary systems, supporting structures, sectionalization, special construction and cost data. Under “Catenary Systems” a short description is given of the various types used on the New Haven, stating the conditions for which each is best adapted. The same applies to the supporting structures and sectionalization. Under “Special Construction” only the cross-overs and river crossings have been considered more fully, while other special work has only been mentioned, as it was not within the scope of this paper to go into the details of construction. With reference to the cost data: It should be borne in mind that the figures given apply to the New Haven construction which was installed in the section with greatest traffic density, also through thickly settled communities. Therefore, the figures given will be of little value for comparison or estimating unless these conditions are equated."
"This paper is designed to give a general review of the problems involved in the maintenance and the cost of an overhead contact system of the catenary type, carrying high-voltage propulsion currents. The paper includes not only the contact system itself, but the transmission lines which form an integral part of the same. The subject treated is the catenary construction on the New York, Westchester & Boston Railway which is purely an electrical line, having no steam whatever. Several points will be brought out, such as the method of maintenance, the organization of the maintenance forces, the efficiency of insulation and other points which may be used in comparison and in discussion."
"The paper treats with the various factors which enter into consideration in the design of a 600 volt contact rail system. The weight of rail to be used depend upon conditions met with in each case, but in general, a heavy rail is preferable from all points of view. The question of quality is rather indeterminate, but in general, it is not advisable to use soft steel until the weight has been brought up to at least 80 lb. (36.28 kg.) per yard, however, consideration should be given to it above this weight. Insulating and supporting is a mechanical problem which must be decided upon local conditions. The method of bonding and jointing to be used depends upon size and section of rail used. With A. S. C. E. standard, the foot bond is the most satisfactory, above this weight and with special sections of rail a copper welded joint will be very satisfactory. Provisions must be made to control the expansion and contraction of rail by cutting it into sections and anchoring each of these sections. Various methods of connecting rails are described together with special devices which will be required. The costs of constructing a single track mile of contact rail uisng 50 lb. (22.68 kg.) rail is $3,284.29 while the cost of the same amount of 80 lb. (36.28 kg.) rail is $4,028.55. The average maintenance cost per mile of rail, exclusive of entire renewal, is $80.00 per mile per year."
"The paper describes in detail the overhead contact system of the electrified lines of the Southern Pacific Company, Portland Division, which operates at a potential of 1550 volts. The design and materials of construction are given in considerable detail, and the cost per mile, of material and labor, are tabulated in very complete form."
"D. B. Rushmore: It is very difficult to consider the subject of reactors for power stations or feeders without studying the apparatus such as generators, transformers, oil switches, protecting apparatus, etc. As a rule, electrical disturbances are due either to high currents, high voltages or high frequencies; and high frequencies have, as a rule, an indirect effect of producing high voltages, so we have simply high currents and high voltages to contend with."
"L. W. Chubb: The author makes certain apologies about the paper, saying it is more of technical interest than commercial value, compared with the alternating current corona. That may be so, but I believe there is a good deal of commercial value in the study of the direct potential in connection with electrical precipitation, and our fundamental study of the electron theory and effects of ionization. I think also the paper will stimulate a good deal of further work along this line just as the first few papers on corona stimulated a great number of papers in the alternating-current work. There is too much in the paper to grasp or remember from reading it over once, but I think it is a very good paper for our records. I cannot read it without thinking of the various explanations which there may be for all the different phenomena he finds, some new, some not entirely new, but they have a very important connection with the work that is going on."
"Harvey L. Curtis: For many years it has been known that there may be considerable leakage over the surface of insulators. However, it is only within a comparatively short time that quantitative measurements have been made. The present investigation∗ was undertaken to determine the conditions under which leakage would become troublesome in the use of electrical instruments. It has been extended to cover a considerable number of insulators; and for these the effects of temperature, humidity, voltage and exposure to light were studied."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its Thirty-First Annual Report, covering the fiscal year ending April 30, 1915. Detailed statements of the Institute's finances, the various trust funds, assets and liabilities, and other similar data, will be found included herein. An examination of these statements will show that the abnormal conditions existing throughout the country during the year have not seriously affected the Institute's finances, and that the receipts for the year exceed by a considerable amount the receipts of the previous year. A brief summary of the work accomplished during the year follows. For further details members are referred to past issues of the monthly Proceedings through the medium of which the Board endeavors to keep the membership informed regarding the administration of Institute affairs."
"The 314th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held at the Planters' Hotel, St. Louis, Mo., October 19 and 20, 1915, under the auspices of the St. Louis Section on the occasion of its 100th meeting. The program will be as follows:"
"The Panama-Pacific Convention of the Institute was held at San Francisco September 16th to 18th, 1915, and was exceedingly profitable and enjoyable to the fortunate members and guests in attendance. The total registration was including about 40 ladies. Others present at the various events of the convention, who did not register, increased the total attendance to approximately 400. All parts of the country were well represented, and there were more than seventy registered from east of the Mississippi river."
"As announced in the daily press, the Institute was invited through President Paul M. Lincoln by the Hon. Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the United States Navy Department, in a letter under date of July 19, 1915, to select two members for appointment by Secretary Daniels upon the proposed Navy advisory board, of which Mr. Thomas A. Edison has already been selected by Secretary Daniels as Chairman."
"The Sixth Annual Convention of the Electric Vehicle Association of America will be held at the Hotel Statler, Cleveland, Ohio, October 18 and 19. The Association has extended to the officers and members of the Institute a cordial invitation to attend this convention. The following tentative program of papers has been arranged:"
"Mr. Walter F. Wright, for some years with the Canadian General Electric Company, has resigned to accept the position of district manager of the Eugene F. Phillips Electric Works, Limited, with offices in the Traders Bank Building, Toronto, Canada."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than 50 words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute, since the last acknowledgement."
"The necessity of recognizing load factor in rate schedules is emphasized. To obtain load factor necessitates the measurement of maximum demand; a new maximum demand meter is described which depends upon heat and heat storage. The theory of such meters is discussed. A new method of measureing power factor and volt-amperes is disclosed and a method of recognizing power factor in the rate for electric service is discussed."
"This paper describes a new single-phase motor which develops a large starting torque and operates with unity power factor. It outlines the manner in which the machine was developed, discusses the theory of its operation as well as the novel points to be considered in its design, and finally gives a number of test results obtained from motors of different sizes. The machine is of the squirrel cage type, but is also fitted with a commutator. Although the motor is often provided with a small centrifugal switch for closing the phase compensating circuit, it is shown that the failure of this switch to operate does not cripple the motor or materially change its characteristics, and that one or more of the commuted winding circuits may be interrupted without causing the machine to break down. Accidents of this description only affect the degree of compensation, the efficiency, or the overload capacity."
"By separating real quantities and imaginaries in the general solution of the differential equations which express the relations which exist between the current and voltage at any point of a transmission line, the components of current, I1, and I2, and the components of voltage, V1 and V2, are expressed as rational functions of the four quantities cosh αxcosβx, sinh αxsinβx, sinh αxcosβx, cosh αxsinβx."
"Conditions surrounding early grants. Meagre knowledge of the importance of public utilities in their inception. The changing view point of the public with respect to the utilities. The constantly increasing investment necessary to meet public demands and the need of favorable franchise conditions, that capital may be attracted to meet same. The early franchises proved unsatisfactory. Public utility business should be a monopoly but should be regulated. The question of its regulation. Different theories under which regulation and municipal co-operation have been exercised. Future additional co-operative measures. Limitation of extensions. Building of extensions by private assessment. The injustice of diverting public utility earnings to municipal purposes. An abstract of the Kansas City traction ordinance passed July 1914."
"The paper gives results and analyses of tests to determine losses in hysteresis loops wherein the magnetism is carried through cycles in which limiting values of flux are different in amount or the mean values of flux differ from zero. Such variations of magnetism occur in inductor generators, in teeth of induction machines and in materials magnetized from rectifier circuits, etc. The author finds that: 1. The losses in unsymmetrical loops are greater than in symmetrical loops of the same difference of limiting values of flux. 2. For loops of the same difference of limiting values of flux, the losses increase as a definite power of the mean flux density. 3. The increased loss as a power of the mean density is the same for any range of loops or difference of limiting flux values. 4. With any given value of mean density, the increased losses with increased range increases as definite power of the range irrespective of the mean value of density selected. The author covers these points in an equation to express the loss in any loop. The general equation is: $h=(\\eta + \\alpha B_{m^{y}}) B^{x}$ wherein η and x are the constants of the Steinmetz law, α is a coefficient depending upon the material, and y a power of the mean density. The present tests satisfied the equation in the form: $h=(\\eta + \\alpha B_{m^{1.9}}) B^{1.6}$."
"The paper relates the experience of a large hydroelectric development on an erratic river, in endeavoring to accomplish most effective combined steam and hydroelectric operation, indicating that a river may be developed to an extent many times its low water flow where there is extended cooperation between customer and power company in determining, by experimenting, the economy of further supply of hydroelectric power. A plea is made for drawing up power contracts in a fashion to encourage effective combined operation of hydroelectric plant with customer's existing steam equipment."
"The first part of the paper outlines the functions of the steam plant furnishing relay and supplemental power for the system whose normal source of power is water and illustrates graphically and otherwise the relative importance of the various functions and characteristics of the supplemental plant. It further illustrates by diagrams in a hypothetical case the division of load between the hydraulic and supplemental sources of power. The second part of the paper discusses some general data obtained from a number of New England water power systems indicating the extent to which the water power is supplemented by steam and the methods of utilizing supplemental capacity."
"Most modern revolving electrical apparatus has teeth on the rotor or stator, or both, which are subjected to constantly varying reluctance. This variation of reluctance causes high frequency changes of flux superimposed on the working flux. The result is a series of displaced hysteresis loops. This investigation was undertaken to determine the magnitude and, if possible, some of the laws governing the change in hysteresis loss due to displacing a loop from its symmetrical position. An account is given of some early tests which, within the limits of induction studied, resulted in certain definite conclusions. It is pointed out that the data from these displaced hysteresis loops limit the applicability of the Steinmetz hysteresis formula to symmetrical loops. Recent tests are then described, giving the details of a new apparatus for obtaining hysteresis loops and showing an improved method of making displaced a-c. watt-loss tests. Numerous loops and curves are included, showing the effect of displacement on the shape and area of the hysteresis loop. No definite laws could be formulated from the data, but some general conclusions are given."
"The results of an experience with treated poles over a period of 18 years have been analyzed. Data are given for poles treated by pressure, open tank, and brush methods. The relation of these methods of treatment to the conditions which have determined the choice of pole timbers in the United States is outlined. The experience with brush treatments has reached a more advanced stage than that with the other types of treatment and is consequently discussed in greater detail. Rates of decay, increase in life by treatment, the effect of seasoning, and the characteristics of the damage to poles caused by decay and by insects are all covered."
"The repulsion start induction motor for single-phase current has come into considerable prominence during the last 10 or 15 years as is fully attested by the large number of motors of this type now in operation, and by the increasing demand and production. While there is considerable literature available on the subject of repulsion motors both compensated and noncompensated and on induction motors, there is comparatively little information available on the repulsion start induction motor which is really a combination of two distinct types of motors. The objects of this paper are: 1. To set forth the general characteristics of this type of motor and compare them with similar characteristics of direct-current motors and other alternating-current motors. 2. To outline a definite and commercially practicable method of studying the electrical design of existing motors and of predetermining the electrical design of new or proposed motors. 3. To discuss the mechanical design and construction."
"The bulletins published by the Engineering Experiment Station of the University of Illinois containing the results of the research investigations made at the University have attracted wide attention. The paper describes the organization for engineering research at the University of Illinois. The nature of the investigations undertaken is discussed. A description is given of the equipment available for experimental work. Lantern slides will be used in presenting the paper. These illustrate the research facilities of the station and the methods used in experimental work."
"It is frequently a question how far it is advisable to go in the application of automatic control, and the writer discusses a number of typical examples from the standpoint of a field engineer of a manufacturing company. Any successful scheme of control must be such as can be produced by the manufacturer and used by the purchaser with profit to both. A review of many of the well-established systems of automatic control emphasizes the advantage of appreciating just what is to be accomplished, having the conditions of operation clearly defined, and knowing the economical limit to which special refinements should be carried. The elimination of the human element in routine operations is one of the most effective means of preventing accidents to life and property and herein lies an important function of automatic control."
"When it is necessary to decompose a magnetic field into its higher harmonics the same methods used for analyzing current and voltage waves may be employed. In many cases, however, the usual long mathematical operations can be avoided by representing the field shapes as geometrical figures, such as triangles rectangles, trapezoids, etc., all of which waves may be considered as composed of a number of triangular waves with certain phase displacements against each other. Equations are then deduced for the harmonics of various wave shapes based upon Fourier's equation for a triangular field."
"In a paper presented before the Urbana Section, April 16, 1914, the author described results obtained from tests made on pure iron melted in vacuo, to obtain data as to its magnetic and allied properties. The present paper describes further experiments on various alloys of the electrolytic iron melted in vacuo with other elements The author deals briefly with the iron-boron and iron-carbon alloys, and presents results obtained with the iron-cobalt alloy Fe2Co, but gives in greater detail the data in regard to iron-silicon alloys, from which the most remarkable results were obtained. The two best alloys were obtained with about 0.15 per cent and 3.40 per cent silicon, after annealing at 1100 deg.cent. The values of maximum permeability for both of these alloys are above 50,000, and the values of hysteresis loss for Bmax = 10,000 and 15,000 are about 300 and 1000 ergs per cu. cm. per cycle respectively. This hysteresis loss is 1/8 and 1/3 of the corresponding loss for commercial silicon steel. While both alloys have similar magnetic properties, the 3.40 per cent silicon alloy has a specific electrical resistance nearly five times that of the 0.15 per cent alloy, making it particularly desirable for use in electromagnetic machinery in places where a low eddy-current loss is a requirement, in addition to high permeability and low hysteresis loss."
"The paper gives a very complete description of the Tallulah Falls hydroelectric development which is of interest as being one of the highest head water power plants in the world. It was designed to supply electric power to the greater part of the State of Georgia. The paper includes complete unit costs of the various items of construction."
"The paper traces the history and development of the electric furnace which has become a very valuable tool in the steel industry and gives promise of an increasing range of application. It is believed that by means of the electric furnace steel will be produced of a quality far superior to any made at present."
"The paper gives the results of three series of tests, made on the first 3750 kv-a. generator installed at Niagara Falls, to determine internal copper temperatures. The object of the tests was to obtain data to assist in the determination of the safe maximum temperature of built-up mica-and-cambric (or mica-and-paper) insulation. The present Institute Standardization Rules recommend the conservative limit of 125 deg, because of the lack of convincing data, justifying the general adoption of a higher limit. In the third series of tests, temperatures of the copper conductors were obtained at the usual operating loads by installing special conductor bars having thermo-couples in actual contact with the copper at its hottest part. The operating history of the generator is given, showing that it has been in operation for twenty years with no interruption to operation due to any effect of temperature on the insulation of the winding. The summary of service and temperature results given in Tables VIII and IX shows that the generator has operated for a time equivalent to nearly seven years without shutdown at temperatures ranging from 120 deg. to 285 deg., for a time equivalent to nearly three years operation without shutdown at temperatures ranging from 145 deg. to 285 deg., and for a time equivalent to fifteen months operation without shutdown at temperatures from 175 deg. to 285 deg. An examination made in 1914 showed the insulation to be in good condition — with the mica unchanged and with the conductors tight in the slots. In conclusion, it is suggested that when suitable mica insulation is used the effect of temperature on insulation becomes of little importance; that the limit to temperature is determined by other factors. The tests show that 150 deg. is a conservative limit giving a liberal factor of safety."
"W. S. Franklin: There seems to me to be no justification for using a reactance in shunt with an oil circuit breaker rather than a resistance. We will assume that the heat developed in the shunt resistance wherever placed can easily be taken care of; so there can be no reason for using the reactance in place of the resistance because of the lesser amount of heat which may be developed."
"K. C. Randall: Is there any provision for lightning protection? Julian C. Smith: It is certainly a rather prominent development to think that the transmission system has provided this equipment for taking care of wrecks. Why did the authors use three single-phase transformers? It would seem that for the purpose a three-phase transformer would be smaller and lighter, and all the purposes served by these transformers could have been accomplished by the three-phase transformer. It would have taken less space and could have been set down through the car, and possibly an oil switch might have been set on top of it."
"Clayton H. Sharp: I could wish that Dr. Bedell would carry his analysis a step further, and apply it to the condition of alternating current operation of lamps. When that is done, a number of other factors evidently enter which introduce considerable complication. As I understand the analysis which is given here, Fig. 1 represents what might be called the statical condition, that is, where the frequency of the alternating current is so low that the temperature changes have time to equalize themselves for each step, so that there is no temperature lag. In other words, it corresponds to what we should have if we carried the filament through a cycle of steps and gave it sufficient time at each step for the temperatures to become steady. In that case, a third harmonic is introduced into the fundamental sine wave, and the third harmonic is so phased as to cause the wave to flatten at the top."
"Leonard Kebler: In Mr. Waller's paper, he refers to the necessity of the contact shoes moving smoothly over the contacts, and also to the necessity for having easy mechanical movement. In designing a dimmer to get proper change in theatre lighting, the first requisite is the proper proportioning of the resistance, as described by Mr. Waller. After this is done, the mechanism that actuates the resistance controlling arm, and the friction between the moving arm and the stationary contact, pivots, etc., must be such that the arm can be moved over the contact evenly with a minimum of effort on the part of the operator."
"The 308th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Pittsburgh, Pa., on Thursday and Friday, April 15 and 16, 1915. The meeting will be under the auspices of the Pittsburgh Section and the Industrial Power Committee. The Convention headquarters of the Institute will be at the Fort Pitt Hotel, where the technical sessions will also be held. The program will be as follows:"
"The 32nd Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held at Deer Park, Maryland, June 29, 30, July 1, 2, 1915. The Convention headquarters will be at the Deer Park Hotel, where the technical sessions will be held."
"The Panama-Pacific Convention Committee is actively at work making plans and arrangements for this convention, which is to be held in San Francisco, September 16–18, 1915, during the week immediately preceding the International Engineering Congress."
"To the Board of Directors, American Institute of Electrical Engineers: Gentlemen: This committee has counted and canvassed, in accordance with Article VI of the Constitution, the nomination ballots received for officers of the Institute for 1915–1916. The result is as follows:"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters, Friday, March 12, 1915, at 3:30 p.m."
"Baltimore. — January 22, 1915, Physical Laboratory of Johns Hopkins University. Subject: Telegraphy. Paper: “Modern Telegraph Methods,” by Louis M. Potts, illustrated by lantern slides. Attendance 25."
"Mr. Walter Robbins, for many years assistant general manager of the Wagner Electric Manufacturing Company of St. Louis, has been elected a vice-president of the company."
"The following Associates were transferred to the grade of Member of the Institute at the meeting of the Board of Directors on March 12, 1915."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than 50 words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"A new graphical method of representing the flow of energy is described and pictures are drawn showing the functions of generators, motors, transformers, transmission lines and other parts of an electric distributing system in terms of the flow of energy through them. The method is based on using two ribbons; one to represent the flow of energy proper, and the other (not used for direct currents) representing the magnetizing power. It is shown that various phenomena of alternating-current transmission are determined by the widths and directions of the two ribbons. The principal elements of the picture (generators, synchronous motors, induction motors, etc.) are taken up one by one and in simple combinations, each case being illustrated by typical figures."
"The author offers arguments in support of the principle of establishing uniform rates throughout a system or territory for different classes of service. In establishing the rates he segregates the services into eight different classes and divides the rates into energy and demand charges; the energy charges being those charges which increase with the kilowatt-hours supply and the demand charges being proportional to the peak demands of the different classes. By establishing similar rates for similar services throughout a territory any appearance of discrimination is avoided and a sliding scale of rates will take care of quantity consumption."
"Theory of electrical precipitation of suspended matter in gases is inseparably connected with the phenomena of ionization and the laws of electrically charged bodies. The motion of the suspended particle is like that of the charged pith ball in the familiar experiments, but the charge is obtained by ionization instead of contact. The paper shows that electrical precipitation occurs in nature and then by calling attention to the structure of matter shows how ionization is brought about, how the ions, nuclei and aggregates are formed, and the final precipitation of these is effected by gravitation and the electric field. Experimental apparatus for electrical precipitation is given and attention is called to the differences between the appearance of the positive, negative and alternating corona. The experimental data have shown the superiority of the negative corona and the relative effectiveness of the size and shape of electrodes, temperature and conductance of gases, polarity and uniformity of corona."
"The technical and finanical progress made by the Research Corporation since its organization in 1912 is given, and several plants are described. Voltages, electrode spacings, power consumption, etc., are given for several installations. Mention is made of a number of improvements in the electrical apparatus and means for its control. Progress has been made towards standardization of apparatus for this work. The paper is illustrated with reproductions from photographs of installations in various stages of operation. Curves and charts show the peculiar character of the circuit, the method of obtaining data to be used in designing treaters and of conducting tests. Alternating current of 250,000 volts, has been rectified and used for precipitating particles from gases. Fumes have been separated into fractions by means of temperature control and the electric processes. A selected bibliography is included. The statement is made that within three years time the original capital of $10,100 has been paid back to the stockholders, and that a fund of over $150,000 has been accumulated from the corporation's work, to be used for scientific research."
"Ability to predetermine the probable normal daylight-sending radius of high-powered radio telegraphic stations is of prime importance in their design. The theoretical transmission equations for both continuous and damped waves are discussed and the empirical formulas for the latter are given. Experiments with continuous waves over a period of six months between San Francisco and Honolulu, a distance of 2100 nautical miles (3880 km.), are described, and an empirical formula for the calculation of probable sending radius with such waves is proposed. This is checked by experiments between Tuckerton, N. J., and Honolulu, 4330 nautical miles (8000 km.) Curves giving the energy received at Honolulu from San Francisco under both day and night conditions are shown, and the effects of changes in wave length upon transmission efficiency are discussed. Evidence strengthening theories of the reflection, refraction and interference of Hertzian waves in long distance transmissions and experimental data showing interference bands not over 18 miles in width is given. The great value of easy and rapid changes in wave length, especially at night, is apparent from the curves. Final conclusions drawn from a comparison of the empirical transmission formulas for continuous and for damped waves are that the transmission efficiency of continuous waves is somewhat higher than that of damped waves on wave lengths of approximately 3000 m. or above, and that this advantage increases with the wave length."
"Most of the control devices which are required in a foundry do not differ very materially in their functions from control devices in other industries. However, they have to encounter an unusual degree of dirt. Proper enclosing cases and the latest types of safety protection are advantageous. The crane requires a special kind of control. The difference between alternating-current control and direct-current control is discussed and it is shown that for most cases, where cranes are properly selected and arranged, there is no need of converting alternating current into direct current to accommodate foundry cranes."
"Electric power is largely supplanting all other types of power for steel mill work probably on account of its superior controllability. In almost any type of mill control the object is to start, stop and reverse the machine and its load in the shortest space of time, work done at constant speed being of minor importance. This leads to an investigation of the acceleration of motor-driven machines. The ratio gearing between the motor and the machine is one of the important factors influencing the time of starting and stopping the machines. Analysis is made of the effect of gear ratio between motor and machine, and equations are deduced from which can be calculated the best ratio of gearing for quick starting, quick stopping, or quick starting and stopping. While these equations may be used to determine theoretical limitations of speed and acceleration any deductions drawn from their use must necessarily be modified by practical considerations."
"The paper describes an alternating-current coal hoist recently-installed near Pittsburgh in which dynamic braking is employed. The brakes and clutches are operated by compressed air which permits of a maximum rate of operation and also makes feasible the uses of various safety devices. The electrical equipment of the coal hoist must be capable of continuous operation at the maximum speed and any attempt to insure against motor or brake trouble by providing excess capacity simply results in the motor being operated at that increased capacity. The control in lowering the empty bucket at high speed must be accurate enough so that it can be slowed down quickly without damaging the barges or steamers in landing. With a friction brake the only way to avoid striking too hard in landing is to make a complete stop before reaching the bottom thereby causing an appreciable loss of time which is entirely avoided by the use of dynamic braking. In the case of the plant described the control has proved sufficiently accurate and exact so that a complete cycle of the hoist trip due to the overlap of hoisting and racking movements can be made in 40 seconds instead of the estimated time of 50 seconds."
"WE ARE meeting here today for the third consecutive year in a midwinter convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. It is an innovation which, as I have indicated started two years ago and has been so successful in the previous attempts that the indications are it will continue. We trust that this particular midwinter convention will be no exception to the rule of success which has attended the previous meetings. Perhaps I can do no better in the introductory remarks I am to make than to indicate my conception of some of the functions of the ideal engineering society. To go back to first principles, I conceive that the simplest form of an engineering, society — the original model, if you please — is found in the engineering college student who has encountered some question or problem — be it calculus, mechanics, descriptive geometry, or what not — which he finds himself unable to understand thoroughly. He takes that problem to his professor or instructor, or possibly to a fellow-student, and asks for assistance or enlightenment. The meeting of those two minds in the request for, and the giving of information, constitutes an engineering society in its simplest form. This quest for information on the one hand and ability to give it on the other, constitute the fundamental basis of this as well as every other engineering society. We have increased in numbers, to be sure — we are nearly eight thousand strong — and we have limited the scope. This Institute deals only with problems electrical; but we have not altered to the slightest degree the fundamental reason behind the meeting of those two minds; the one in quest of information, and the other with the ability, or at least the willingness, to give that information."
"MY FUNCTION this morning, I feel, is more that of an enunciator than anything else. What you really want to see, I know, is the experimental side of this matter and the pictures, both in motion and in still life, that the other speakers have to show you. All I shall try to do is to outline briefly a few of the steps that have led up to this work and give it a little better setting in time and space."
"IN ARRANGING the program for this evening the committee to whose efforts the presence of our distinguished guests is due gave consideration to the question whether it would be wise to attempt to suggest to the several speakers various more or less definite aspects or phases of our broad subject, with a view to avoiding repetition of thought and securing a comprehensive and systematic discussion. It was felt, however, that the most useful and constructive results might be expected if the gentlemen who are to follow me were simply invited to present for your attention those views and suggestions — based not only upon their exceptional experience as leaders in various departments of engineering accomplishment, but also upon their wide observation and experience as men of the world — which to them, severally, may appear of special' interest and importance to the profession. If repetition results, emphasis will result, and the status of the engineer, as a professional man and as a citizen, can be systematically advanced only by that individual and that collective effort which it may be hoped will result from that conviction which follows the emphatic statement and reiteration of essential facts."
"THE SUBJECT for discussion this evening is important and timely, and should be of vital interest to every engineer. It is well for us to pause a few moments from our daily task and make a brief survey of the engineer's work, to consider its important influence upon the life of this busy world, and especially to enquire what new service awaits the engineer now and in the immediate future. During this discussion we do not propose to limit our definition of “engineer” to one educated in or following the strictly technical profession of civil, mechanical and electrical engineering, but shall include in addition all educated men laboring in the broad fields of chemistry, physics, medicine and other organized scientific activities."
"THIS TOPIC is now so wide that there is no difficulty in discussing it from one's own particular point of view and in line with any individual interest and experience. The danger lies in dealing with so broad a subject from too limited and narrow a point of observation. It is doubtless from a full realization of this danger that those responsible for the program tonight have brought men together in this discussion from so many different positions and varied experiences in life. Having announced my apprehension regarding the narrow view of this broad question, I feel at perfect liberty to proceed to take such view, if only to make good my prediction."
"I Find that I am somewhat at a disadvantage in this symposium, and it is my own fault. I have had the opportunity to prepare an address for the occasion, but I have tried to listen attentively to those who have spoken ahead of me, and I shall try to get my text from what they have said."
"IT IS an opinion that is very widely held, and particularly among engineers, that the engineering profession is not appreciated at its full value, and that the engineer does not receive the recognition in public life and as a leader that his attainments entitle him to. In times past I have not hesitated on various occasions to raise my voice, feeble though it may be, in support of that proposition. I have not changed my views at all, and I agree with what has been said by previous speakers this evening in regard to that matter. However, it seems to me that by emphasizing continually what the engineer ought to have, we may possibly overdo somewhat that aspect of the matter. I am, therefore, going to ask you tonight to take a different point of view with me for a few minutes, and to consider, if the engineer has not received proper recognition, what the causes for this are, and how the existing condition may be remedied."
"I FEEL that it is not necessary for me to apologize to you tonight when I say that I am going to be very brief. The hour is so late, and so many weighty matters have been presented to you tonight by the eminent gentlemen who have spoken to you, that I am quite sure what I have to say can be put before you in a very brief time. I think that the present status of the engineer is quite satisfactory when we find on our platform tonight two engineers who are now presidents of two of our great corporations in this country."
"THE ENGINEER does not work in isolation. Like his fellows in the other learned professions his work is done in cooperation with those within and without his own profession. His work may be done through conscious co-operation, as in a corporate organization or learned society, or it may be done through that co-operation which he, like all others, exhibits as a member of organized society, and which is often most intense and effective when he is attending strictly to his own business, with no thoughts of co-operation in his mind. From the dawn of engineering the work of the engineer has had to do with men as well as with things. The first rude implement shaped by the hand of man was designed to divide man's labor with him. In creating the first industrial and agricultural tools used by mankind the primitive engineer worked out a problem in organization, for the problem of organization is the problem of the division of labor. Labor may be done wholly by men and divided up among them in various ways according to their abilities, or it may be divided so as to be done partly by animals or partly by machinery provided by the engineer."
"Paul Spencer: Upon hearing the paper read, I was struck with the advantages of having someone supply you with money without interest charges, and being able to make contracts on which you could shut off power whenever you did not have it, or did not wish to supply it. Under those circumstances, I can understand that you might be able to sell your surplus electricity at the price stated. The low rates can only be considered as due to those extremely peculiar conditions."
"H. L. Hibbard: I should like to know if the author could tell us something about the results of the tests on the electrical equipments which he pointed out as particularly novel and new, for instance, steering gear, anchor windlass, bilge pumps and ammunition hoists. All those are more or less novel, and I thought perhaps he could give us some actual data from this ship or possibly from her sister ship. Maxwell W. Day: I think there is a decided advantage in the 220-volt system, as far as the installation of the wire is concerned and also in the size of the controlling appliances, and also to some extent because of its effect on the design of the motors, especially in the larger sizes where commutator space can be saved, but, on the other hand, the motors require more turns, taking a greater amount of waste space for insulation and a greater use of commutating poles, so that for a larger number of the motors there is no saving in weight or expense."
"The Convention Committee appointed by President Lincoln to arrange the details of the Annual Convention at Deer Park has been active during the past month, and as the result of its activities the Deer Park Convention promises to be a most enjoyable one in every respect. The technical and entertainment programs have been nicely balanced in order that the convention will prove both profitable and enjoyable to all who attend."
"At the conference of Section Delegates during the Detroit Convention last June, a resolution was passed requesting the Board of Directors to consider a revision of the Constitution so as to incorporate therein the purposes, functions and duties of the Section Delegates attending annual conventions."
"The statement of assets and liabilities presented herewith, shows the financial condition of the Society on December 31, 1914, at which time the Society had in addition to the value of its real estate, the following funds:"
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held April 9, 1915, the following resolutions were adopted:"
"During the last three years the subject of the inspection and test of high-tension porcelain line insulators has been under discussion by the A. I. E. E. The need of more uniformity in the commercial testing practise on such insulators has long been manifest and the very erratic behavior of insulators on several of our important lines has indicated a need for more searching tests. As a result of the consideration of these questions by various Institute committees during this period a specification has been drawn up by the present Transmission Committee which is intended to serve as a model or skeleton specification covering the inspection and testing of high-tension line insulators."
"The 306th meeting of the Institute was held March 18 and 19, 1915, in Cleveland, Ohio, at the Hollenden Hotel, under the auspices of the Industrial Power Committee and the Cleveland Section. The registration of attendance reached 309, of which number 27 were from outside of Ohio."
"The 308th meeting of the Institute was held in Pittsburgh, at the Fort Pitt Hotel, on April 15 and 16, 1915, with a technical program of seven papers, presented under the auspices of the Industrial Power Committee in cooperation with the Pittsburgh Section. The total registration for this meeting was 216."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday, April 9, 1915, at 3:30 p.m."
"Baltimore. — March 26, 1915. Physical Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University. Subject: Electric Railways. Paper: “Car Operation,” by John F. Layng. Attendance 28."
"Mr. Walter N. Cargill has been appointed Superintendent of Power and Lines for the Rhode Island Company, Providence, R. I."
"Kengo Makino, Assoc. A. I. E. E., of the department of electrical engineering, Waseda University, Tokio, Japan, died on February 1, 1915, after a long illness. Mr. Makino was graduated from the Institute of Technology of Tokio in 1900, and for years identified himself in various capacities with the development of electrical industry in Japan. In 1907 he was sent to the United States and entered Cornell University, from which he was graduated in 1908 with the degree of M. E. Subsequently he entered the graduate department of the same university and in 1909 received the degree of M. M. E. He was also honored with the membership of the Sigma Xi Society. Immediately after receiving the master's degree he was summoned to his native country to organize the new department of electrical engineering of the Waseda University, which position he held to the time of his death. He was also a frequent contributor of articles on electrical engineering topics to the technical press of Japan. Mr. Makino was elected an Associate of the Institute on March 12, 1909."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on April 1, 1915, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than 50 words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"In selecting a controller for application to various types of mill machinery all the conditions must be considered, such as the class of operator, conditions of location, operation and maintenance, relative importance of reliability, simplicity, cost and repairs, etc., and initial cost. These points are illustrated by three different types of control as applied to a blast furnace skip hoist, to a high-speed coal hoist, and to a slow-speed ash hoist. In the first case reliability and continuity of operation are imperative, and other requirements are of secondary importance; in the second case, where an ordinary delay does not affect plant operation, questions of simplicity, repairs, maintenance and inital cost can be given more consideration, as continuity of operation is not absolutely essential; in the third case where the operations are performed by unskilled labor the most important requirements are that the controller perform its functions positively, accurately and automatically, and it should be provided with all the necessary protective features to avoid damage to the apparatus controlled."
"THE WORK of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers consists largely of the presentation and discussion of papers on: 1. New inventions and discoveries in the electrical field. 2. Compilation and review of the art in some particular line. 3. Description of installations. 4. Presentation of analytical studies of peculiar conditions and phenomena. 5. Subjects of general interest to electrical engineers. The development of the electrical art has proceeded so rapidly that classification of the same in the Institute activities has not been made in all lines. The following outline prepared for use of the proposed International Electrical Congress is probably as good as any:"
"The writer discusses control problems from the operator's standpoint, in connection with bloom mill and rolling mill machinery. The most important consideration is that no provision for emergencies can be allowed, and when the ingot or bloom leaves the furnaces for the rolls it must be kept moving until it reaches the cooling beds. Any interruption in this cycle means scrap material and lost time. To fulfill these requirements the equipment must always stand up to the service and be as nearly fool-proof as possible. The full magnetic controller in the writer's opinion meets the above requirements better than any other type. The requirements of the different classes of machinery are tabulated and from this tabulation it is shown that the control can be standardized in four distinct types one or the other of which will meet all conditions of mill equipment: 1. Full reverse single-speed type. 2. Full reverse multi-speed type. 2-a. Full reverse multi-speed type with dynamic braking. 3. Non-reverse push-button type. In conclusion the author points out that the conditions to be met and their solution should be kept as uniform as possible and the aim should be towards simplicity. The expense of duplication would be avoided by standardization of parts, and this would also permit comparison of different makes of apparatus on an equal basis."
"The control problem discussed in this paper is confined entirely to a typical example of a skip hoist. An outline of the conditions existing in the case of this particular application is given in which the load on the hoist is divided into three parts, namely, the friction load, the inertia of moving parts, and the useful work in hoisting the net load. The proper cycle of operations is determined, which in turn determines the required characteristics for the motor and controller which are together considered as a unit. The details of this d-c. skip hoist control are described and illustrated."
"The induction motor with either squirrel cage or wound rotor is practically the only type of alternating current motor used for general industrial purposes in this country and therefore the author has confined his paper to considerations of the control problems offered by induction machines. The various types of alternating current controller in use are described and illustrated and the advantages and disadvantages of each type as well as its limiting capacities are discussed. A number of typical examples of installations of alternating-current controllers in mill work and allied industries is described."
"Part I treats of the reasons for using the high frequency oscillator for testing porcelain insulators. The oscillator is a combination of a 60-cycle transformer, a condenser, a spark gap, and an oscillation or coreless transformer. The 60-cycle potential charges the condenser and the condenser discharges through the gap and the coreless transformer. This sets up high frequency wave trains of the same nature as the wave trains that take place on the transmission line. This high frequency potential strain is the only kind that damages the insulators. The 60-cycle potential is always far below the puncture potential and arc-over potential of the insulators. In Part II it is shown that the principal factors in the manufacture of porcelain which affect the final product are: 1. The choice of ingredients, — ball clay, china clay, feldspar, and flint. 2. Is the problem involved in getting a homogeneous mixture of these pulverized materials. 3. Is the problem of drying out the moisture without causing unequal contractions which crack the green porcelain. 4. Is the early dehydration in the furnace in which as much as 14 per cent of moisture is given out. 5. Proper time and temperature for vitrification. The mechanical processes through which porcelain is carried are of the greatest importance in getting good electrical porcelain. It can be stated that defective porcelains are in general due to the accidents of manufacture, the dielectric strength of all the porcelains being passably good except for flaws. Part III includes data on tests carried out mostly with the high-frequency outfit. An electrical method is shown of producing failure along invisible cleavage surfaces in the porcelain body. This examination should be useful to the porcelain manufacturer to indicate how nearly the porcelain is approaching to a weakness which will cause the rejection of the porcelain piece. Another method, using potential gradient to investigate the homogeneity of the porcelain, may be found of use in determining the efficiency of the pug mill which is used to mix the ingredients when the porcelain is in the early plastic stage."
"(1) Some of the simpler fundamental experiments on the electrical conductivity of the air are described. (2) The theory of ionization in gases is outlined in nontechnical language. (3) Townsend's proof that the law of corona forming intensity $E=32+{13.4 \\over {\\sqrt d}}$ is in accord with the theory of ionization by collision, is explained."
"The development of the idea of magnetic reluctance is sketched, and the mathematical and experimental methods of determining it are first discussed. On the theoretical side it is the theory of complex quantities which leads to numerical results. The electric field of an electric generator is next analyzed and made to depend approximately upon the reluctance of two-dimensional magnetic fields. This study indicates as preferable the one shown in Fig. 6 at the left. The reluctance of these various magnetic fields is determined by experiments made on sheets of high resistance metal cut in suitable forms, and by mathematical computation. These results are put into charts and formulas convenient for the use of those interested in electrical design. The results of the tests are proved to be more accurate than most of those already published. In particular, present leakage flux calculations are most in error. Of more general interest are the plates of the shape of the magnetic lines of force in the various parts of electrical machinery. In particular, Figs. 42 to 48 include some new results. The flux lines in the corners of transformers and induction motors are there shown, and the exact solution to the much discussed sine-wave alternator problem is there given. The paper is divided into (I) Introduction (II) Historical Development, (III) Description of Experiments, (IV) Accuracy of results, (V) Conclusions. There are two appendices giving some mathematical details, for reference purposes."
"A method of testing the phase angle of current transformers by comparing readings obtained on a wattmeter whose current circuit is first connected to receive a part of the primary current (the remainder of the primary current passing in shunt through resistance) and then connected to the secondary circuit; the potential circuit is supplied from the primary voltage, and capacity or inductance is used to give the effect of a low power factor in the wattmeter. Corrections are applied for the error of phase of the part of the primary current which passes through the wattmeter, and separately for the error of phase in the primary caused by the fact that the primary current is not exactly in phase with the voltage used to supply the wattmeter. A second method of connection is suggested which avoids the latter correction, and other methods including the use of a three-phase circuit are discussed. Results of tests are given, and also check obtained by the use of an a-c. potentiometer. The method requires only portable instruments."
"The author gives the method of determining the cost of service having a variable demand, with special application to electric service, because the cost does and must always determine the selling price; competition and commissioners can only regulate the profit therein contained. Competition is destructive, involving an immense amount of unnecessary expenditure and lost motion. In order to insure the lowest price to the consumer we must have regulation, and monopoly. The author starts with the premise that an equipment must earn its cost and profits when in use; certainly it cannot do so when idle. The greater the percentage of total time an equipment or part thereof stands idle, the more it must earn when in use, because interest, etc. runs continuously. The subject is a big one and of tremendous import not only to the electric business, but to all business, and it has been the center of discussion for many years. It is now time to get down to absolute proofs of every conclusion, based upon fundamental facts."
"This paper points out that in order to arrive at a rational classification of alternating current motors it is necessary to base all suggestions on one and the same theory. The author thinks that the component field theory is best suited to this purpose, and urges that it be always so applied as to bring out the very great similarity between the alternating and the well understood direct-current machines. Descriptive names are suggested for some 44 alternating-current motors, including the principal forms of single-phase, polyphase, commutator and commutatorless machines now known. These names are such as to positively identify each of these machines. The rules followed in preparing the diagrams illustrating the various forms of motors and in selecting the proposed names, are given. In order to enable the reader to quickly judge of the aptness of these names, the theory of each of the motors dealt with is briefly outlined. It is thought that the information given will make it easy to correctly represent, describe and classify any motor which may have been omitted. It is further pointed out that the term “repulsion” as applied to motors, has never been defined, that no practical motors operate on what has been known as the repulsion principle ever since 1820, and that there is no justification whatsoever for the use of this term in connection with alternating-current motors. Such an indefinite term leads merely to endless confusion and should be abandoned. If it is not abandoned, it should be given a rational and definite meaning."
"The energy losses in an electric oven may be divided into radiation and convection loss, preheating loss and the loss due to opening the oven door. Each of these losses was determined for several electric ovens and their effect on the cost of the cooking of various articles of food is discussed. With cheap fuels and inefficient stoves it matters little at what temperature a particular article of food is cooked if the results are satisfactory. With electric cooking, however, it is often several cents cheaper to cook an article of food at a particular temperature; for instance, with electricity at $.05 per kw-hr. it is at least $.02 cheaper to roast beef at 120 deg. cent. than at 180 deg. The results of the experiments performed indicate that for each article of food there is a particular time and temperature for which the cooking can be satisfactorily performed with a minimum amount of energy. The problem of the engineer in the further development of electric cooking is to design practical cooking devices in which the temperature can be accurately regulated with a minimum of attention on the part of the housewife and thus co-operate with the domestic scientist in the inauguration of truly scientific cooking."
"The present provisional specification was approved and recommended by the Power Transmission Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Feb. 1915."
"W. S. Franklin: When you lower that oscillator into the water, the two diaphragms are working in like phases, are they not? H. J. W. Fay: Yes. That means that the water on one side is being compressed. W. S. Franklin: Don't you cover one of those diaphragms completely, and only expose one to the water? H. J. W. Fay: This diagram doesn't show the water-tight oscillator as it should. This is a form of scillator that was put inside the ship, not put in the water. A water-tight oscillator has a ring around the base of the pole piece, and the third diaphragm is mounted on that ring, and this rod excites that diaphragm."
"The report published in the October Proceedings of the Panama-Pacific Convention and the International Engineering Congress, held in San Francisco in September, was necessarily incomplete, as that issue went to press before the Congress closed. In order to complete the record of the highly successful series of engineering meetings held in San Francisco in September, the following supplementary report is here published."
"The 313th meeting of the Institute was held at Philadelphia, October 11, 1915. The sessions were held in the Engineering Building of the University of Pennsylvania. At the opening session President Carty, who presided, made an exceedingly interesting address in which he referred to the prominent part which the Institute has taken in the remarkable progress in the electrical engineering profession during the last three decades."
"The 314th meeting of the Institute was held at the Planters Hotel, St. Louis, October 19th and 20th, 1915, under the auspices of the St. Louis Section, on the occasion of its 100th meeting."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in New York on Friday, October 8, 1915, at 3:30 p.m."
"Boston. — October 13, 1915, Engineers Club. Address by President J. J. Carty on “Institute Work.” Local Secretary Ira M. Cushing gave a report on work of the Committee on Greater Cooperation among Engineering Societies. Addresses by Messrs. Pierce Kent and W. T. Masters on “Load Despatching.”"
"Mr. George W. Lamke has left the employ of the Wagner Electric Manufacturing Company and has been appointed Registrar of Washington University, St. Louis, Mo."
"John Winfield Barnett and his four-year old son Clifford were passengers on the S. S. Marowijne, which left Puerto Cortes, Honduras, on August 11, 1915, bound for New Orleans, and is supposed to have foundered on August 15 in the terrible storm which swept across the Gulf of Mexico. Mr. Barnett was Superintendent of the electrical department of the New York and Honduras Rosario Mining Company. He was graduated in 1907 from the School of Electrical Engineering of Purdue University, where he was elected to membership in Tau Beta Pi. After two years spent with the General Electric Company as student engineer, he went to San Juancito, Honduras, in 1909, where he soon rose to the position of electrical superintendent for the mining company, which position he held at the time of his death. He was elected an Associate of the Institute on February 11, 1910."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on September 30, 1915, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than 50 words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute, since the last acknowledgement."
"The design of solenoid and electromagnet windings is discussed. A new and shorter method is derived for the design of the most efficient windings for continuous or intermittent service. Formulas are given which eliminate the usual cut and try operations of the design. Charts, plotted from the formulas, reduce to a minimum the calculations necessary in designing a winding."
"Charles W. Davis (by letter): Soil temperature plays such an important part in determining the limiting load on cables, that any information bearing on this subject is particularly desirable. An excellent starting point for discussion of the subject would seem to be afforded by the work of Professor H. H. Callendar. I ventured to call attention to the investigation at the June, 1913 meeting of the National Electric Light Association. (See discussion of Mr. Abbott's Report for The Underground Committee, Proceedings National Electric Light Association, page 673). And I refer to it again because it throws considerable light upon the effect of water percolating through the soil — an effect which Mr. Imlay has so skillfully made use of in a practical way; and also because it points out the errors which may arise in the determination of soil temperatures at various depths."
"J. B. Whitehead. Mr. Peek states that in the case of clean wires his losses would begin at the voltage Ev, rising abruptly from 0 to the values shown for their voltages on the curves. As I understand it this voltage Ev is that at which corona breaks out on clean wires and is calculated from the now well known expression involving the diameter of the wire and the distance between wires."
"A. O. Austin: The oldest impact method used in testing insulators is probably that of suddenly throwing in the switch on the primary of the testing transformer. This is rather uncertain, but usually results in a rather severe surge or suddenly impressed voltage on the insulator, and will puncture material which can not be weeded out where the voltage is held on continuously even at the point of flashover."
"W. S. Franklin: Let me ask Mr. Bradley how to get rid of the material which accumulates in the pipes. Linn Bradley: This is a matter which presented some difficulty. If a liquid it will run off, and if it is a mixture of liquid and solid, it will not run off unless it is of proper consistency. If you have a dry dust it is easy enough to shake it off. You have to design your plant to suit the problem. Fumes that are all dry can be handled in about the same way; that is, if they are of the same physical character. If they are of a granular character, they must be operated in a different way from fumes which are of a fine formation."
"G. H. Garcelon: Mr. Lester, in his paper, has brought out a point that will bear further discussion; namely, the question of selecting a motor to operate a given device and give the best all-around service when used on the different circuits encountered over the wide area in which motor-driven devices are applied."
"Joseph W. Richards: In considering the arc process, we can say that it is essentially an electrochemical process. Last summer I had the pleasure of visiting the largest of these plants in operation at Rjukanfos, in Norway. In a valley that five years ago contained five houses, there is now a town of ten thousand inhabitants, with a power plant of 250,000 h.p., and they are shipping their products practically all over the world."
"Julian Loebenstein (by letter): Mr. Goldman discusses what he calls growth factor. Just what does he mean by that term? It seems that since he increases the fixed charges in order to take care of future growth, he expects to make extensions from earnings. This has been done in the past, but will the public service commissions permit it in the future? In other words, according to modern practise, extensions should be made from capital, not from earnings. Of course, if the company is in a position to pay a fair dividend but prefers to invest the dividend moneys in extensions, capitalizing those expenditures, no commission would find fault; but it is far from likely that two charges will be allowed as part of the rate, one to take care of future extensions and another allowed, in itself large enough to yield a fair dividend."
"The Factors Involved in Motor Application, with Particular Reference to the Rubber Industry A. P. Lewis: Within the last five years the impetus received by the rubber industry has necessitated special motor applications to facilitate production. The first installations, however, developed the fact that there were several conditions to be met which differentiated the drives from certain standards assumed."
"The Direct Current Motor in Industrial Applications A. C. Lanier: In the field of industrial motor applications, the direct current motor has been an important factor. The inception of the induction motor together with the extension of the alternating current systems of power generation and distribution seemingly menaced at one time the position of the direct current motor and has limited somewhat its extension in the industrial field. Competition from this source, however, has tended rather to define sharply the peculiar characteristics and advantages of each motor or system and to direct the growth of each along the most effective lines. In this selective growth, the extreme flexibility of the direct current motor and its wide range of operating characteristics has offset to an extent the advantages of simplicity, lower first cost, and lighter weight of the induction motor and the considerable advantage in economy and flexibility of the distributing system of which it forms a part."
"Selby Haar: In looking over this paper the thought occurred to me that since it is a graphical method it is open to the objection to most graphical methods, namely, one must be very careful in the construction if the results are to be used for anything more than demonstration purposes. These methods are quite frequently used, not so much in railway work as in some other branches of the electrical industry, for obtaining guarantees to be used in contracts, and I have found that they cannot be relied upon closely enough for such purposes."
"H. D. James: I was connected for five years with a large elevator company and wish to state that this company had very good information on the efficiency of its machines. This was based on several hundred tests showing the torque required to start the elevator and the power required to operate same. Undoubtedly Mr. Lincoln is referring to smaller companies that have not accumulated much of this information. Mr. Lincoln states in his conclusions — “If the standard series relay type of controller is used on the wound-rotor motor the maximum torque must be exerted on the first step for sometimes the maximum load has to be lifted.” The torque referred to is the torque at the circumference of the hoisting drum and the amount of torque exerted by the motor will depend upon the gear ratio between the motor and the drum. An elevator is sold to lift a specified number of pounds at a specified speed. Let us assume that the load is 3000 lbs. and it is to be lifted at the rate of 100 ft. per min. The motor must be geared to the drum to give this speed of car with the load specified. In selecting the gearing the synchronous speed of the motor can not be used as an induction motor runs at a speed less than synchronism, depending upon its full load slip. If we assume that a cage motor is used having 30 per cent full load slip and compare it with a slip ring motor having 4 per cent slip, it is readily seen that there is a gear ratio in favor of the slip ring motor of approximately 40 per cent. The slip ring motor will be required to exert 40 per cent less torque than the squirrel cage motor to start the same load. The current taken in starting on the first notch of the controller is the current corresponding to the torque required to start this load. It is not the current corresponding to the same torque at the motor shaft. Mr. Lincoln points out that the squirrel cage motor can be designed to exert a given torque with less amperes input than the slip ring motor. This is true as the squirrel cage motor has a better interlinking of induction between the primary and secondary than the slip ring motor. This comparison, however, is not a true one. It has been shown above that the slip ring motor runs at a higher speed than the squirrel cage motor and, therefore, has a different gear ratio which favors the slip ring motor at starting. In order to compare the two motors the torque required to start a given load should be determined for each type of motor and the current input at this torque compared. An analysis of this kind will show that the secondary resistance of a squirrel cage motor can be increased with profit up to a certain point, beyond which the advantages of increased resistance are more than counterbalanced by the increased slip of the motor. The gear ratio to give full speed will increase the torque required from the motor faster than the resistance will improve this torque. Where the slip ring motor and the squirrel cage motor are both proportioned to give the best results when referred to the speed of the car, it will be found that the amperes input to start the load will not differ materially in the two designs."
"Henry G. Stott: Perhaps a little account of the origin of this paper might be of interest. We were confronted by the problem of providing for a station which would ultimately contain seven 30,000-kw. units, and at the same time trying to avoid the results of six 30,000-kw. units in short circuits. First of all, we were very anxious about protecting the generator from short circuits. After a little investigation of the whole problem, it turned out that our efforts should be directed towards the feeders and busbars and not towards the generator, as the generator, with its relatively high reactance and modern construction, seemed to be pretty well able to take care of itself. The problem, then, of saving the feeders from what might happen, as we went further along in the investigation, became rather complex."
"H. F. Stratton: I apologize for appropriating such a big topic as mill controllers, and then discussing only part of one division of it. Nor do I feel that the apology is an empty formality, because I appreciate that other parts of the subject have such a direct bearing on the one discussed that they should be considered at the same time."
"Raymond E. Brown: One of the papers presented made mention of the desirability of having motors of a sufficient size to operate part of the time at reduced load, to keep the commutator in good shape. The desirability of low temperature limits for rheostats was also discussed."
"A meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held on March 18 and 19, 1915, in Cleveland, Ohio, the arrangements for which are in charge of the officers of the Cleveland Section and the Industrial Power Committee of the Institute. The headquarters of the meeting will be at the Hollenden Hotel and the technical sessions will be held in the banquet room. The technical papers are all published in this issue of the Proceedings and reprints of these papers will be available without charge upon application to Mr. E. H. Martindale, National Carbon Co., Cleveland, O., and will be distributed at the meeting. The program of the meeting is as follows:"
"The third Midwinter Convention of the Institute, held at the Institute headquarters, Engineering Societies Building, New York, was opened on Wednesday morning, February 17, with an introductory address by President P. M. Lincoln, and closed with the session on Friday afternoon, February 19. The sessions were held in the auditorium. The technical papers, covering a variety of subjects, including papers secured by the Committees on Transmission, Electrophysics, Electric Lighting, and Use of Electricity in Marine Work, were presented without deviation from the program published in the February Proceedings."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, February 19, 1915, at 4:30 p.m."
"There undoubtedly exists the necessity for some more or less detailed directions concerning the points to be considered in the preparation of papers for professional societies. There are in the membership of such organizations a large number of young men who, either by reason of education or of lack of practise, are not familiar with the best and easiest methods for the production of literary results and to whom such a guide would undoubtedly be of considerable assistance. That there may be many older men who are in the same position need not be discussed."
"Boston. — January 30, 1915, Auditorium, Engineers Club. Subject: Industrial Power. Paper: “Industrial Power Applications,” by D. B. Rushmore, illustrated by lantern slides. Attendance 80."
"Mr. E. M. Breed, who for the past eight years has been district manager of the Canadian Allis-Chalmers Company, Ltd., with headquarters at Vancouver, has been appointed district manager of the Pelton Water Wheel Company. He will continue his headquarters at Vancouver. Previous to his connection with the Canadian Allis-Chalmers Company, Mr. Breed was with the sales force of the Canadian Westinghouse Company at Montreal."
"Cyrus Fogg Brackett, professor emeritus of physics in Princeton University, died on January 29, 1915, in Princeton. Dr. Brackett was born at Parsonfield, Maine, June 25, 1833. He was graduated from Bowdoin College in 1859, and four years later received the degree of M. D. From 1863 to 1864 he was instructor of chemistry at Bowdoin, and professor from 1864 to 1873. Subsequently he was professor at Princeton for thirty-five years. Since 1908 he had been professor emeritus. He was a recipient of the honorary degree LL.D. from Lafayette, Bowdoin and Princeton. Dr. Brackett was one of the early members of the Institute, and served as Manager for the term 1886–89."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on February 15, 1915, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than 50 words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"The nitrogen contained in the atmosphere is in an inert form and does not readily lend itself to chemical reactions. To overcome this is the province of “nitrogen fixation.” There are very definite commercial limitations involved in accomplishing this as the world's supply of nitrogen has been readily obtained from vast natural deposits of sodium nitrate in Peru and Chile and the production of a substitute must be at a competitive cost. The electrical processes for fixing nitrogen have a very low efficiency, due to utilizing thermal energy only. Combinations of electrical and chemical methods promise the most important developments. Comparative figures are given showing amount of energy necessary per kilogram of nitrogen fixed, and the general economics of the subject are discussed."
"This paper deals very briefly with troubles which affect the operation of carbon brushes on motors and generators. It should be of great assistance to the operator in locating various machine troubles and in securing the best service from his brushes. The paper is divided into five sections, based on the location of the cause of trouble: (1) field, (2). armature, (3) commutator, including brush rigging, (4) external electrical, and (5) external mechanical."
"In this article the author outlines the broad and increasing use of fractional horse power motors and the chief causes for the advance in popularity of motor-driven machines. The success in this field of motor application has been largely due to the perfection of a reliable and simple single-phase motor. The development in the design and construction of the single-phase motor is traced from its origination to the present time, and the operating characteristics of the commoner types of single-phase motors are described and illustrated by the use of speed-torque curves. The correct application of small motors is of utmost importance and requires a careful analysis of motor characteristics, the characteristics of the driven machine and of the supply circuit, with the limitations of each. The author deals particularly with the characteristics of the split-phase induction motor, which is used so extensively, and points out the functions of the centrifugal clutches when employed as a component part of this motor. A reference diagram is presented which is of service in applying small motors."
"The paper gives a general description of the typical method of handling ore from the mine to the blast furnace, describing in a general way the machinery used in the different steps of the process. The general principles underlying the application of electric motors to these various types of machines are discussed, as well as the class of motors best adapted to the work and the considerations in regard to the power installation. The essential points to be considered are; 1, the determination of the shortest path over which the ore is to travel; 2, the determination of the characteristics of the loads in moving ore through this path; 3, the designing of the electrical equipment to carry these loads with minimum peak and maximum reliability, and 4, installation of a substation that will handle the load satisfactorily and most economically, considering both demand charges and the total kilowatt-hours used."
"THE work of applying electricity to industrial operations consists in properly combining the motor, controller and machine to be driven. This involves the characteristics of all three and a number of other features which are concerned more or less in the particular situation. The following is a list of some of the factors involved and is intended to be used as an introduction to a discussion on the individual features concerned."
"The author examines the cause of line disturbances in starting hoists and elevator motors and draws comparison between the performance of wound-rotor motors and squirrel cage motors of a special design for elevator service. Diagrams are given showing graphically the current required for each type of motor to produce a given torque, and the method of control required by different types of motors is also considered. The performances of both types of motors at maximum, ordinary and light loads are compared."
"The paper contains a general description of the process of electric arc welding and discusses some of the general principles involved in this work. Some of the principal difficulties encountered in electric arc welding are described and comparison is made of its advantages over other methods of welding. The author concludes that there are very few cases of welding which cannot be more satisfactorily done with the electric arc than by any other means, provided the operator is sufficiently skillful. He also considers that less practise is required by operators to make successful electrical welds than is necessary with any other process. The paper concludes with some operating costs of different types of electric arc welding machines."
"Mr. Scott: Mr. Whitney's paper is of particular importance to central station men because it shows that there is a field for prospective business open that is usually placed in the same class with steam laundries, that is to say, absolutely unapproachable. I have never dealt directly with any logging men, but have had occasion to attempt to sell power to a few sawmill men, particularly for small plants, none of very large capacity, and their main objection to motor drive is, first, they claim the first cost of the motor installation is excessive as compared with a steam engine; and, second, they say that the motors will not stand up to the work. Now, never having actually seen a drive of that kind I was not in a particularly advantageous position to refute their statements. Third, they say they must have steam anyway for their dry kilns and for their log-carriers, and therefore there is no particular advantage in putting in electric drive. And lastly, they say that they are forced by law to get rid of their waste; in most instances they are too far removed from a point where the waste can be sold as fuel, so they have to install a burner especially to get rid of it, if electric drive is used."
"Harris J. Ryan (by letter): Replying to Mr. Fortescue's questions: The high-frequency driving voltage of the arc was multiplied about one hundred times by resonance. The impressed voltage of the arc having an irregular wave form was consumed in the first few turns of the outer helices. Thus in a given case the potential to neutral of the sixth turn from either arc terminal would, on test, be found at low (almost zero) alternating potential. On either side of this turn the potential would be found to rise regularly. By theory, under these circumstances, it is difficult to understand how the high-potential wave form can have departed appreciably from that of the true sine wave. The cyclograph traced a quadrature combination of current and potential waves. The result was a true elipse with no evidence of the presence of harmonics. In regard to the use of isolated spheres made necessary in the method devised to eliminate harmonics in the high frequency high voltage: The case is not one of actual isolation, as assumed by Mr. Fortescue. The arc was supplied with current from two 600-volt direct-current generators connected in series with their neutral grounded. Furthermore, the oscillating circuit would fail utterly to operate unless both sides of the circuit were nicely balanced, developing substantially equal voltages."
"The Meetings and Papers Committee of the Institute has been actively engaged for some time in preparing the technical program of the Panama-pacific convention and has tentatively accepted the following papers for the convention program:"
"Boston. — May 28, 1915, Engineers Club. Addresses by Dr. Louis Bell and Mr. S. C. Rogers on “Modern Street Lighting Units.” Election of officers for the coming year as follows — chairman, L. L. Elden; vice-chairman, G. A. Burnham; secretary-treasurer, Ira M. Cushing; executive committee, L. W. Abbott, William L. Puffer, and C. W. Green. Attendance 65."
"Mr. Edwin G. Hatch has opened an office for consulting work in the Equitable Building, New York, and will have associated with him Mr. Herschel C. Parker, for twenty-one years Professor of Physics in Columbia University. Mr. Hatch was formerly associated with Mr. Walter G. Clark, and during Mr. Clark's absence in the West since 1913, had entire charge of the New York office, including the consulting work for the Victoria Falls and Transvaal Power Company of London and South Africa. Mr. Hatch was also treasurer and manager of the Clark Electric and Manufacturing Company, being largely instrumental in developing that company's line of high-tension specialties."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on June 17, 1915, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than 50 words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute, since the last acknowledgment."
"There is a broad field open for designing and construction engineers in the design and construction of transmission towers and foundations. The purpose of the paper is to present a brief explanation of the types of towers, tower foundations, etc. along with a few details of field practise used in connection with the construction of two lines of towers carrying six 190,000-cir. mil, seven-strand copper conductors between Niagara Falls and Toronto, Ontario. The question of dispensing with massive concrete foundations for towers is dealt with, and a number of alternatives are presented for consideration."
"This paper mentions the dependence of effectiveness in street lighting upon municipal appropriations and efficient lamps, but discusses more particularly those aspects of effectiveness which are dependent upon skilful utilization of the light to produce the most effective illumination. There are included a classification of streets, a statement of the objects of street lighting and the elements of vision under street lighting conditions. The paper emphasizes three considerations which are sometimes neglected in street lighting discussions; namely, the silhouette effect, specular reflection from street pavements, and glare. The remainder of the paper is given over to a presentation of the variables upon which the effectiveness of street illumination depends, and upon the influence which each feature of the installation exercises through these several variables. As a part of this discussion illuminating efficiency values for the several modern street illuminants are given. The appendix includes statistics and photographs of some very recent installations which illustrate the latest trend in street lighting."
"The author proposes to classify all dynamo electric machinery according to five sets of characteristics, as follows: 1. Type of field, as constant intensity, variable intensity, multiple polarity and homopolar. 2. Method of disposal of secondary power, which may be zero wattless, utilized in separate apparatus or transformed and returned to the line. 3. Use of commutators, which may be on either the primary or the secondary, or may be absent. 4. Method of magnetization, namely, high frequency magnetization as in the ordinary induction motor and low frequency magnetization as in synchronous and compensated motors. 5. Method of connection. Many types may be connected either in series or shunt. A tabulation of these characteristics is given, by reference to which any dynamo electric machine can be classified."
"The Pennsylvania Water and Power Company, since it started operation of its hydroelectric plant at Holtwood, Pennsylvania, has kept a careful record of all operating events. In the following paper this record is given for the four years 1911–1914, as far as the high-tension transmission line, Holtwood to Baltimore, is concerned. The record deals essentially with certain observations made on lightning flash-overs, deterioration of insulators, sleet on cables, and the various means adopted to prevent disturbances to operation from these causes."
"A careful study of the general conditions existing on the B. A. & P. R. R. indicated that an overhead contact system was advisable. The relatively large amount of energy required per locomotive unit made the adoption of the roller pantagraph desirable. The weight of this type of collector demanded that the trolley line be made as flexible as possible. Special hangers, pulloffs, etc., were designed to accomplish this result. The cost of the contact system was relatively high because of the unusual conditions. The operation is quite successful, though some minor troubles were experienced in the beginning."
"A general classification of collecting devices is given corresponding to the existing A. I. E. E. classification of contact conductors. Contact rail systems and contact wire systems are considered along with their corresponding collectors. Many data derived from measurements made upon different types of overhead and collecting devices are arranged in the form of curves. The application of these various curves are discussed and the possibilities indicated for selecting other curves to still further express the factors essential to proper collection. This method of attacking the problem is a novel one and it is hoped that those interested in furthering the cause of better collection will be encouraged to assist in making further measurements. Examples are given of constructions where consideration has been given to the factors discussed. Suggestions are made as to profitable subjects for discussion."
"In accordance with the resolutions of the First Pan-American Scientific Congress, held in Santiago, Chile, December 25, 1908, to January 5, 1909, a Second Pan-American Scientific Congress will be held in Washington, D. C., December 27, 1915, to January 8, 1916, under the auspices of the Government of the United States."
"The Board of Directors of the Institute held its regular monthly meeting in New York on Friday, November 12, 1915, at 3:30 p.m."
"Baltimore. — October 15, 1915, Hotel Rennert. Election of officers as follows — chairman, J. B. Whitehead; secretary-treasurer, L. M. Potts; executive committee, A. S. Loizeaux, A. T. Clark, W. H. Swift, R. C. Faught, F. A. Allner, C. G. Edwards, H. B. Stabler."
"Mr. John E. Stirling Thorpe has been appointed resident engineer for the Aluminum Company of America on the dam and power house to be built on the Yadkin River, near Whitney, North Carolina."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on November 4, 1915, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute, since the last acknowledgement."
"There is hardly anything which stands out so prominently today in our industrial activities, as the efficiency obtained by the electric driving of machinery. The duty or performance cycle of the motor naturally depends on the controlling apparatus, and the writer, after describing several types of resistance, endeavors to explain the various forms of magnetic control in vogue today for both d-c. and a-c. motors, hoping to bring out a full discussion on the merits of each, also regarding the characteristics embodied in contactor or magnetic switch design."
"Alfred N. Goldsmith: As Mr. Fuller has truly said, the paper will be of considerable assistance in enabling us in the future to proportion a transmitting set to the distance to be covered, at least under conditions such as he has mentioned; that is to say, transmission over waters similar in absorbing power to those of the North Pacific."
"E. S. Zuck: Mr. Lincoln states on the first page of his paper that all metals can be welded. This is true from a theoretical standpoint. Practically it is open to question, especially if the welding is to be done by the electric arc process. I would like to ask Mr. Lincoln whether he would recommend an electric arc welding outfit for a foundry or a machine shop doing cast iron work exclusively."
"H. D. James: The paper by Messrs. Stoltz and Lum brings out the importance of continuity of service. The theoretical calculations in connection with the arcing of electric switches are difficult owing to the many factors that enter into the problem, yet it is the most important item that has to do with the maintenance of an electric contactor. The mechanical construction of a switch is easily analyzed and passed upon by a good mechanical engineer. The question, however, of the life of contacts, freedom from freezing and wear on arc shields and surrounding parts of the switch is still somewhat obscure. So many data on this question are of doubtful value because some of the factors are not available and others are not accurately determined."
"D. B. Rushmore: Every designer of d-c. machines owes a debt of gratitude to Professor Arnold for his clear and careful elucidation of the phenomena of commutation. The phenomena are so exceedingly complicated, when you consider all the e.m.fs. involved, and all of the variables that can enter in the shape of quality and condition of the commutator and the carbon brush, the width, the pressure, distribution, and wear, etc. It was not until we got the little X-ray apparatus, known as the oscillograph, that we could begin to find out what was going on. The development of the electrical industry, and especially the d-c. machinery, is dependent upon this little carbon brush, and upon the peculiar qualities of contact resistance that we get with it."
"R. B. Chillas, Jr. (by letter): In taking up the discussion of this paper, it is particularly worthy of note that the author has brought out the desirable characteristics of the searchlight arc, since a consideration of these or very similar principles has resulted in a decided improvement in the present standard type of searchlight carbons. While this has not been carried quite so far as has been shown in the Beck lamp, nevertheless, it is quite probable that a wider application will be obtained."
"H. S. Newlin: In the following discussion it is not my intention to describe any one foundry, but to generalize my remarks, portraying as nearly as possible what I consider the ideal foundry control from the standpoint of operation and maintenance."
"Percy H. Thomas: May I ask a question. Suppose we cool a gas down to a very low temperature — presumably there are then no free electrons in the unelectrified air. If so, what is the net result?"
"The Electric Elevator H. D. James: We often hear engineers speak of the difference in efficiency between electric elevators of the same size, and many of them seem at a loss to understand why this difference exists. It will perhaps be made a little clearer to many of them if we analyze the various sources of loss which occur between the motor and the load, and point out some of the factors which cause a variation in these losses."
"G. H. Stickney: There is more difference of opinion as to what is the best practise in street lighting than in any other class of lighting problems. This is due in part to the efforts to classify a wide variety of demands into one or two groups of practise, at the same time putting the extreme emphasis on the cost. Since the disagreement originates with the ultimate lighting effects the lack of agreement as to the methods of producing such effects is not surprising."
"D. B. Rushmore: In the handling of ore and in the handling of a great many commodities by mechanical means, and we will suppose the electrically driven, it is very interesting to try to find the economic reason for the application of the electric motor. It is almost a general rule that a factory having economic functions is going to go forward absolutely regardless of opposition or point of view."
"L. D. Nordstrum: I want to ask Mr. Duer if he experienced any particular difficulty due to corrosive action of the sodium chloride solution in removing the sleet?"
"Charles R. Underhill: I wish to call attention to a special case of reluctance. It has to do with solenoid design; the design of plunger electromagnets, or magnets with movable cores. Let it be assumed that a constant mean effective alternating e. m. f. at constant frequency is to be impressed upon a coil. When the constant mean effective alternating e. m. f. is impressed upon the coil, it is found that a certain mean effective current flows through the coil, and from this knowledge together with the number of turns and the dimensions of the coil, the permeance of the coil can be calculated, and since reluctance is the reciprocal of permeance it is a simple matter to determine the reluctance of the coil."
"Joint Committee on Inductive Interference (communicated): Apropos of the present general consideration of irregular waveforms, this committee desires to call attention to an important aspect of this subject which has not hitherto received the attention which it merits. The interest of this committee in this matter arises from its bearing upon the subject of the committee's investigation — inductive interference. It is not overstating the facts to say that were it not for the irregularities of waveform of common occurrence in power circuits, the necessity for the formation of a committee of this character would not in all probability have as yet arisen. There is a strong presumption that the difficulties not arising from irregularities of wave form could have been overcome without the medium of such a committee."
"R. J. McClelland: As a large part of the transmission line tower failures in the past have been due to weakness in the foundations or footings, rather than in the towers themselves, the topic under discussion is a pertinent one. Lack of complete information on the behavior of tower foundations in different soils has doubtless been largely responsible for such unsuitable designs and methods as have been employed, and transmission line engineers have come to an appreciation of the need of thorough acquaintance with the soil conditions with which they have to deal in any given case. This has led to making not only test pits along the route, but to conducting tests on sample foundations in place at different points."
"The third New York Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held at Institute headquarters, Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, February 17, 18 and 19, 1915. The list of papers to be presented follows. All of these papers, with the exception of Nos. 10, 11 and 12, are published in this issue of Proceedings. Reprints of all papers to be presented will be available without charge at the technical sessions."
"Preparations are well under way for a two-day meeting of the Institute to be held in Cleveland, Ohio, Thursday and Friday, March 18–19, under the auspices of the Industrial Power Committee and the Cleveland Section. The sessions will be held at the Hollenden Hotel."
"There were 359 applications for membership received during the last three months of 1914 as compared with 242 in the corresponding period of the preceding year. This increase of 48 per cent is a direct result of the activity of the Membership Committee of the Institute and the various local membership committees of the Sections. It also clearly indicates that there are still large numbers of desirable prospective members throughout the country to whom the many advantages of Institute membership should be presented."
"For the purpose of completing its organization and laying out its working program the National Joint Committee on Overhead and Underground Line Construction held a meeting at the headquarters of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers on December 16, 1914. According to present plans this Committee will prepare specifications or suggested practises or perhaps recommend modifications of existing regulations relating to the following subjects:"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, January 8, 1915, at 3:30 p.m."
"Baltimore. — November 20, 1914, Physical Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University. Subject: Central Station Design. Paper: “Description of New Boiler House and Turbines at Westport Station,” by A. S. Loizeaux. Attendance 32."
"Cav. Ing. Guido Semenza, Local Honorary Secretary of the A. I. E. E. for Italy, has been elected President of the Associazione Elettrotecnica Italiana for the three-year term 1915–1917, thus also becoming President of the Italian National Committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on January 6, 1915, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than 50 words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute since the last acknowledgment."
"Corona loss curves made on a number of experimental and practical lines by different investigators have been corrected and plotted. The loss has been calculated by the quadratic law for each case under the same conditions as to spacing, conductor diameter, altitude, etc. and plotted for comparison. It is of interest to note that the measured values were made at various parts of the country. The time period covers a number of years and the altitude varies from sea level to 10,000 ft. An exact check of calculated and measured losses cannot be expected, as the exact conditions are not always known as to conductor surface, wave shape, etc. Such losses are also difficult to measure, especially on practical lines where the voltage range is quite small and there are a large number of corrections to make. The check is as close as the accuracy of the measurements permit. The variations from the calculated values are in most cases due to the fact that practical measurements have been made on the unstable part of the curve below the visual critical voltage value. The losses at this part of the curve are fully discussed."
"An alternating current flowing through an unvarying non-inductive resistance has a wave-form that is undistorted and is identical with the wave-form of electromotive force. If the resistance varies during each cycle, on account of changing current and temperature or other causes, the current wave-form will be distorted and will contain a third harmonic that will flatten the current wave when the temperature coefficient is positive and will peak the current wave when the temperature coefficient is negative. If there is no temperature lag in the resistance (that is, if the maxima and minima of temperature and resistance coincide with the maxima and minima of current), the maximum of the third harmonic in the current wave will coincide with the maximum of the fundamental, so as to flatten or peak the wave as stated. A temperature lag in the resistance, however, causes the third harmonic of the current to be retarded in phase, and likewise causes a slight shifting of the fundamental of current with respect to the electromotive force. Due to this distortion of current wave-form, power factor becomes less than unity and a vector diagram in more than two dimensions is required to show the true relations between current, electromotive force and power factor. These conclusions, reached theoretically, conform with the experimental facts so far as known. In practical cases cyclic change of resistance is so small that the distortion due to it is insignificant."
"Industrial power work in the electrical field consists primarily in applying electric motors to the driving of various kinds of machinery. The machines to be driven possess characteristics of different kinds and are run on duty cycles which are often peculiar to the classes of industry involved. Generally the characteristics of the machine to be driven are fixed and the class of motor suitable for this work must be selected with regarded to these features. Motors themselves are adapted to the work of driving machines largely through various forms of controllers. A study of the characteristics of various classes of electric motors in the light of their adaptability to the requirements of the work to be done and a review of certain limitations and mechanical considerations is the object of the paper."
"Searchlights have remained practically the same for the past 25 years, although there is great necessity of an improved searchlight on account of the increased range of torpedoes and increased speed of torpedo boats. The constituent parts of a searchlight are given in the paper and some of the essential and desirable features of the various parts are shown. Methods of testing searchlight mirrors are given, with illustrative figures. The results of tests conducted on Navy standard 36-in. and 60-in. searchlights and Beck 44-in. searchlight show the latter type to be much more efficient in illuminating distant objects. Relative results are shown in the figures."
"Expanding needs of the Southern Power system, paralleled many miles by railroads, required a flexible-connection transformer relay of large capacity, easily portable, and self-contained on a single car. The equipment in operation is of 4000 kv-a. actual capacity, and provided with high- and low-tension switch gear, instruments, panel, wiring and cables, oil-insulated, self-cooled transformers with motor-driven blower for forced air draft, special means of establishing the high-tension delta with 100,000-volt clearances, after transformer terminals and high-tension switches have been raised by a portable derrick, from receptacles where all fragile parts are protected from malicious tampering. Besides meeting standard freight car requirements for transportation, substantial, specially braced trussed superstructure is provided for supporting cabs and switch gear, which latter, as well as transformer terminals, must be lowered, during transit, to meet railroad clearances. Unusual flexibility of voltage connections is secured, contributing largely to the successful operation. Current for lights, instruments and blower motor is obtained from auxiliary transformer windings incorporated with the main units. Low-tension arrangements allow operation at various voltages with minimum switching. The entire equipment is designed for simplicity and dispatch in disassembly for transit, and reassembly in new location."
"The advent of tungsten lamps for theatre lighting made necessary a complete re-design of the dimming apparatus. Dimmers designed for the control of carbon filament lamps do not give smooth and flickerless regulation when used with equal loads of tungsten lamps. This is due to the temperature coefficient of resistance of the lamp filaments, that of the carbon filaments being negative, and that of the tungsten filaments positive. Curves are shown to indicate the change in lamp resistance and candle power for various watt inputs. Curves for both carbon and tungsten filament lamps are shown in order to bring out the contrast, and a method described for determining the resistance per step and number of steps in the dimmer designed for control of tungsten lights. Following is a brief indication of commercial requirements in dimmer design."
"The frictional resistance of a small particle moving through a fluid is given by the law of Stokes. Knowing the density and size of the particles and the coefficient of viscosity of the medium, the amount of energy required to remove suspended matter from fluids can be calculated. From the formulas the relative efficiences of the different methods used to remove suspended matter from gases can be obtained. From these formulas the electrical method is shown to be especially adapted to fine suspended particles or to a mixture of gases that can be selectively ionized. In a practical case of electrical precipitation of smoke it is shown that approximately 4 per cent of the energy of the corona discharge is actually expended in the process of precipitation. The manner of the distribution of the energy of the corona discharge is discussed. The nature of the corona ionization and the “corona” rays is also briefly described. The application of the theory of electrical precipitation is given so that it is possible to determine the best working conditions for precipitating a given kind of suspended matter from a given fluid. The theory also indicates the limits of usefulness of the method of electrical precipitation."
"Electrolytic iron of a purity of 99.97 to 99.98 per cent was melted in fused magnesia crucibles in a modified Arsem furnace, forged into rods, machined, and annealed in an electric furnace according to various heat cycles. The magnetic properties were obtained by the Burrows double bar method. Determinations were also made of the electrical resistance, chemical composition, and physical properties, including microstructure and critical temperatures as well as tensile tests. A few commercial iron and steel samples were tested for comparison. The following valuable results were obtained: 1. Pure iron melted in an atmosphere of carbon monoxide under atmospheric pressure will absorb both carbon and oxygen with the result that the iron thus produced is of an inferior magnetic quality. 2. Low carbon iron melted in vacuo will lose 50 to 90 per cent of its original carbon content. 3. The magnetic quality of electrolytic iron melted in vacuo is decidedly superior to any grade of iron thus far produced, the maximum permeability obtained being 19,000 at a flux density of 9500 gausses. The average hysteresis loss obtained is less than 50 per cent of that found in the best grade of commercial transformer steel, due to the fact that the coercive force is very much lower than for silicon steel, although the retentivity is higher. 4. The specific electrical resistance of pure iron melted in vacuo is 9.96 microhms per centimeter cube. 5. Swedish charcoal iron melted in vacuo has a magnetic quality approximating that of electrolytic iron melted in vacuo, chiefly due to the reduction of the carbon content. The author suggests that the high electrical conductivity and hence large eddy current losses in this material may possibly be greatly reduced by the addition of silicon or aluminum without very materially affecting the magnetic quality."
"The author describes a permanent installation which was made for supplying moisture to the earth in the neighborhood of underground cables with the object of reducing their temperature. The approximate temperature of the cables is found by taking with a resistance thermometer the temperature of a duct adjacent to the cable which is the source of heat. In uncovering the conduits and exposing them to air, as a remedy for hot spots in the cable, it was found that the adjacent earth was hot and dry so that it crumbled to powder. This suggested opening a ditch in the ground above the conduit and directing a stream of water through it. This was found to lower the temperature immediately several degrees. Where an open conduit was not practical, water was discharged in to a vacant cable duct by means of a hose and this was found to be more effective than the open ditch method. These experiments led to the installation of a line of porous tile duct in the earth above the conduit, surrounded with clean sand. The leakage of water through the pores of this duct has been found very effective in reducing the temperature of the cables. Whenever the temperature of the cables is found by exploring with a resistance thermometer to approach the danger point, water is turned into the porous drain tile, and the temperature is taken on successive days to see whether the desired reduction has been obtained. In this way one or two men, with resistance thermometers attached to long leads, can keep track of and control the temperature of the cables in a large system. No breakdowns of insulation of cables have occurred due to high temperature since the adoption of this method."
"The purpose of the paper is to present a brief explanatory discussion of some of the arc phenomena in oil circuit breakers and to describe the present tendencies in oil breaker construction and practise. A proposed method for rating breakers and specifying is included."
"John B. Fisken: On page 1457 it is stated for the Washington Waterpower Company, “We have noted no deterioration in conductors.” That, as far as I know, was true up to within the past few weeks. Since I left home I have been advised that a very serious deterioration has been noticed in some of the conductors. I have a small sample of wire here which was sent to me at Detroit, which I will give to the chairman; it shows the deterioration to which I refer. I do not know what the cause is, and I cannot account for it, unless it is a corona effect. It appears to be a very serious matter. This line has been in operation about eleven years. The first eighteen months it was operated at about 45,000 volts, and since then at 60,000 volts. The triangle is 42 inches. The insulators are carried on iron pins and wooden poles, and until about two years ago the pins were not grounded. At that time we did ground the pins and that has had some effect on the wire, possibly. I merely call your attention to this to show that we at any rate have found deterioration in the conductors."
"Percy H. Thomas: Last year, the High-Tension Transmission Committee presented a “sample” or “model” or “skeleton” specification, as it might be called, for the testing and inspection of high-tension porcelain insulators. This has been quite extensively remodeled during the present year, without greatly changing the fundamental ideas of the specifications. Presumably this discussion will be the last chance for any effective criticism. I wish to open the subject by giving a few words of explanation in answer to a number of the suggestions which have been made."
"P. N. Nunn: The paper just presented is one of signal interest and significance. It is of unusual moment in this, that it reports both an elaborate scientific study of great technical value and also a legal adjudication of conflicting interests between two public utilities of vast economic importance. Briefly stated, the paper reproduces a certain report to the Railway Commission of the State of California, by a committee authorized by it to investigate the subject of electrical interference by other electrical circuits with “communication” service, including telephone, telegraph and railway signal. The investigation, occupying several years, assumed the character of a research into the intricate phenomena of distant electromagnetic induction, its remote origin in the characteristics and manipulation of power apparatus and its acoustic effects upon telephone service. To present the details of the various tests, methods and apparatus employed has involved the production of fifty special reports now summarized in this general report which draws a series of conclusions and submits and discusses a proposed code of rules for the prevention of the interference in question."
"As announced in previous issues of the Proceedings, the Panama-Pacific Convention of the Institute will be held in San Francisco, September 16 to 18, 1915."
"At the May meeting of the Board of Directors the Finance Committee reported that it had considered the advisability of paying off the remainder of the Institute's share of the indebtedness upon the land occupied by the Engineering Societies Building, amounting to $54,000. The conclusion reached by the committee was that the best interests of the Institute would be served by the payment of the mortgage at this time, and it recommended that this action be taken. The Board approved the recommendation, and authorized the Finance Committee to sell, through the Treasurer and the Secretary, such securities owned by the Institute as would be necessary to make up the required amount."
"Acting upon the recommendation of the Board of Examiners and the Sections Committee, the Board of Directors at its meeting held on July 1, 1915, at the Deer Park convention, amended Section 61 of the Institute by-laws providing for the enrolment of students. The by-law was amended so that the privilege of student enrolment may be extended to the students of all educational institutions giving courses of instruction in electrical engineering subjects. The former by-law provided that “any person pursuing a regular course of study in electrical subjects and registered as a student in any university or technical school of recognized standing,” might be enrolled, and under a ruling by the Board of Directors a few years ago, the term “technical school of recognized standing” was interpreted to apply to schools of college grade giving a course of not less than three years in electrical engineering and granting degrees. Therefore, electrical engineering students in schools not of college grade were not able to avail themselves of the privileges of enrolment in the Institute, which include the regular receipt of the Institute Proceedings. The question was discussed at the meeting of the Board of Examiners held on May 17, and a resolution was passed recommending to the Board of Directors that the restriction be removed so far as it applied to student enrolment."
"The thirty-second annual convention of the Institute was held in accordance with the program previously announced, at the Deer Park Hotel, Deer Park, Md., June 29-July 2, 1915. The total number of members and guests in attendance was 202, including 43 ladies. Although conditions this year were not conducive to a large attendance, nevertheless those who did attend were amply repaid, as the convention was in every way satisfactory, both from an engineering and social viewpoint. The papers and discussions were of the usual high grade and the enjoyment of all in attendance was greatly enhanced by the excellent arrangements made by the Convention Committee for the entertainment of members and guests."
"The Board of Directors of the Institute held a meeting at Deer Park, Maryland, on July 1, during the Annual Convention."
"Chicago. — Election of officers for the coming year as follows — chairman, William J. Norton; secretary, Taliaferro Milton; members of executive committee, E. W. Allen, R. H. Rice and D. W. Roper."
"Mr. L. Jorgensen, who for the past eight years has been associated with the engineering firm of F. G. Baum and Company, of San Francisco, has resigned from that company and will hereafter engage in general electric and hydraulic engineering practise, specializing in the design of arch dams. Mr. Jorgensen will have an office at 1405 Chronicle Building, San Francisco, Cal."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on August 4, 1915, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than 50 words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The following accessions have been made to the Library of the Institute, since the last acknowledgment."
"AN ANNUAL address by the president of our Institute is more than a perfunctory affair. It is a constitutional requirement. It is enumerated specifically in our constitution among the duties of the president — “He shall deliver an address at the annual convention.”"
"IT IS my privilege and pleasure to speak to you of the invention of the telephone, with which event it was my good fortune to be connected, my association with Prof. Bell as his mechanical expert having brought me into close touch with nearly all his experiments both before and after his great discovery. I shall try to tell the story as it impressed itself on my mind in those early days when I was a young man of about 20, just out of my apprenticeship as a maker of electrical apparatus, intensely interested in my work, and with a full share of youthful enthusiasm. In my story, I shall not use the terms and formulas of modern telephony, for they would certainly be out of place in speaking of the time when that science, now so complex, was contained in one human brain."
"The requirements of merchant and naval installations are cited in brief. The rules of the classification societies are reviewed and present practise is fully discussed. Then follows the specific applications to a number of different types of ships including both merchant and naval vessels. The reasons for the application of electric propulsion to a battleship are briefly given."
"There is a slight leakage of current from trolley wires to earth through insulated supports on all electrical overhead construction, which if not checked permits a flow of current which gives rise to electrical separation of water into oxygen and hydrogen. The oxygen liberated acts vigorously upon the adjacent metal parts which in time become badly corroded. This electrolytic action also seems to remove the galvanizing from live metal parts before attacking the iron. A partial remedy for this rusting of live galvanized wire is painting. This electrolytic effect is also seen to take place over strain insulators where the creepage distance is insufficient. This indicates that a creepage distance proportional to the conditions met must be secured to stop the flow of current around the outside of the insulators. The author concludes that, under fog conditions, the insulator surface exposed for creepage is insufficient in our present standard devices. Another form of overhead electrolytic action noticed in electric railway work is caused by use of dissimilar metals in contact. Sulphuric acid and other fumes in the air, and ozone from a nearby ocean, are supposed to be the electrolytes that set up a local battery action at these points of contact. The logical remedy for this trouble is to use similar metal in contact. The paper then describes the troubles encountered in San Francisco due to these causes and the remedies which have been applied."
"In direct-current machines, there are a number of apparently distinct limitations, such as sparking at brushes, flashing at the commutator, burning and blackening of the commutator face, picking up of copper, etc. which, in reality, are very intimately related to each other. The principal object of the paper is to bring out such relationships and to show that all these actions are special cases of well known phenomena. The theory of commutation is considered only in its relation to the e.m.fs. generated in the coils short circuited by the brush; and the limiting e.m.fs. per commutator bar and per brush are shown to be fixed principally by brush contact resistance. The effects of the negative coefficient of the contact resistance is also referred to briefly. Flashing due to various causes is next taken up, and the relations between the maximum volts per bar and flashing conditions is indicated, both from test and general experience. Flashing due to various other causes, such as interrupting the circuit, etc. is also considered. Burning and blackening of commutators, high mica, picking up of copper, etc. are treated in detail, and these actions are shown to be very closely related to the commutation limits derived in the earlier part of the paper. Noise, vibration, etc. are also considered as limitations in design of d-c. apparatus. In approaching the ultimate design, these limitations become increasingly prominent. Flickering of voltage and winking of lights are two well-known actions in direct-current practise. A simple explanation of the winking of lights (not original with the author) is given with the results of tests on a generator with well proportioned compensating windings in the pole faces. Apparently the difficulty is a fundamental one, and is liable to occur in all types of d-c. machines. In conclusion, a brief chapter is given on design limitations as fixed by commutator peripheral speed. This applies particularly to large capacity high-voltage machines. An appendix is added covering a method for determining the maximum capacity of d-c. machines in terms of the short circuit volts per commutator bar when the various constants in the machine are given certain limiting values. The results show that in large high-speed machines, the maximum capacity is considerably above present practise."
"The day of the small mine with small equipment is passing, and in the future most of the bituminous coal mining will be accomplished in larger mines using heavy equipment. The demand for larger capacity in equipment has been increasing rapidly of late, and owing to the restricted space available for the equipment on a mine locomotive, difficulty is being experienced in designing equipment to meet the conditions. A possible solution of the problem is in providing forced ventilation for the motors which are of a type that require very little ventilation to produce a large increase in the continuous rating. This scheme has been tried out on a large locomotive and the results indicate that forced ventilation will play a prominent part in meeting the extreme severe conditions that are frequently arising in the mine locomotive field."
"This paper deals with the electrical behavior of transformer windings when subjected to steep wave fronts and high-frequency wave trains. The dependance of the internal voltages produced, upon the distribution of capacity with the inductance of the winding is discussed. Practical windings are divided into two general classes, one in which inductance and capacity are practically uniformly distributed, and the other in which the capacity is more or less concentrated at certain points, with relatively concentrated portions of inductance intervening. Neglecting the effects of the high frequency dielectric losses in the insulation at high frequency, distinct mathematical analysis is given to these two classes of winding to determine the ratios of the internal voltages to the voltage of the external wave or wave train. The resulting internal voltage distributions are plotted for various frequencies, and curves are plotted for the relations of maximum internal voltages to frequency. These curves show that some frequencies are dangerous, while others are not, but it can not be said that one of these types of winding is better than the other from the standpoint of the possibility of excessive internal voltages. The analysis is by no means complete, but an examination is made of the facts and fundamental principles involved which will enable us to insulate for and guard against excessive internal voltages in a more scientific manner."
"The purpose of this paper is to show in a concise manner the cause and effects of higher harmonic currents in magnetizing currents of transformers. A hypothetical case is analyzed to show the cause of the harmonics; then the schemes of connecting transformers that are commonly used for polyphase transformation are taken up and the effects of the harmonics on each case pointed out. The author also shows the reason why third harmonic voltages are not developed in the three-phase “core type” transformer when connected star-star."
"The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate the phenomena attending the operation of star-star transformers with grounded neutral on the line side. Contrary to current opinions, the author believes the abnormal voltages and destructive effects, which often accompany star-star operation, are due to even harmonics, at least in a large number of cases. At high magnetic densities, the third harmonic voltage may be appreciable, but the indications are that' the even harmonics will cause damage at nominal magnetic densities lower than those which require appreciable third harmonic exciting current. The data on which the conclusions are based, include approximately 150 oscillogram waves and a correspondingly large number of meter readings. The data are omitted from the text to a large extent, because the details could not add materially to the discussion. The tests are simple and can easily to made with an oscillograph in any laboratory or substation. One precaution must be kept in mind, namely that the observations should start at low voltages, which may be increased gradually until the various phenomena are observed. Unless this is done, the equipment may be wrecked."
"Two methods of transformer connections, the tee-cross and the delta-cross, are described with their application for parallel operation of two-phase and three-phase systems. An attempt is made to explain as clearly as possible the voltage, current and phase relation, and the dephasing action which take place in each case. The delta-cross system of connections lends itself to a great number of applications, either for the parallel operation of two-phase and three-phase systems or for the simultaneous supply of two-phase and three-phase power from one bank of transformers. It is to be noted that in this system of connections no special taps are required, except a 50 per cent tap on one transformer (usually easily obtainable), the compensation of one phase of the system being done externally by means of a small booster transformer. The simplicity of connections, the feature that no special transformers are required, and no special taps necessary, give the electrical engineer facilities to meet promptly and economically the requirements inherent to two-phase and three-phase simultaneous distribution from only one transformer bank."
"The author wishes to acknowledge indebtedness to Mr. B. L. Stemmons for his skilful assistance in making experiments and calculations. See Hayden and Steinmetz — Disruptive Strength with Transient Voltages, Trans. A. I. E. E., 1910."
"1. Discussion on the paper of Dr. J. A. Fleming, “On Some Effects of Alternating-Current Flow in Circuits having Capacity and Self Induction,” Journal Institution of Electrical Engineers, London, Vol. XX, May 1891, p. 471. The results are given of about one hundred series of tests, each covering a range in frequency up to about 5000 cycles per second, on the impedance of long loops of parallel conductors of different metals, sizes, and cross-sectional forms. The measuring apparatus is detailed. The theory of the skin effect in solid rods and in indefinitely wide flat strips is appended in a new and simplified form."
"The author describes some investigations made in Europe of Diesel engines of large capacity, with a view to their suitability for driving generators of 500 to 1000 kw. capacity under conditions prevailing in mining camps in the Southwest."
"The paper describes an electric hoist recently installed in a mine at Butte, Mont., having a depth of shaft of 4000 ft., net weight of load 14,000 lb., weight of skip and cage, 9000 lb. and maximum hoisting speed 3000 ft. per, min. Some results of operations are given. This hoist is of special interest as being the largest electric hoist in the world and containing some important departures from previous practise."
"This paper deals with the axle generator system of electric lighting for steam railroad cars, and describes recent improvements in control systems for obtaining proper voltage from the generator under all conditions and proper regulation of battery charge to conserve the life of the storage battery. Methods of control depending upon voltage of the battery have not been wholly successful. Since the beginning of 1914 extensive use has been made of systems of control of the battery charge based upon actual input and output in ampere-hours, and one such system, which has proved successful, is described. In the development of the system of control by ampere-hour meter, tests were made by means of a special graphic recording ampere-hour meter which gives a complete record of the treatment received by a storage battery with any axle generator system. Actual records from long runs are reproduced, to show the results obtained in the operation of the system of control of charging by ampere-hour meter. With this system the battery has minimum work to do, in most cases operating between points of 75 or 80 per cent of full load and full charge, and the lighting load is put on the generator as much as possible."
"This paper narrates some of the history and describes the present automatic switchboard telephone system in the City of Los Angeles. It describes how the system, which began to give service with one manual switchboard in the year 1902, has gradually been extended and transformed through several interesting stages of combined automatic and manual operation, until it now comprises 15 automatic offices and a traffic distributor switchboard which serve a total of 60,000 subscribers stations — the largest automatic switchboard system in the world. The layout of central offices in the present plant is shown in contrast with the layout of offices in the Bell telephone plant of approximately the same size, operating in the same city. The traffic distributor switchboard used for handling the outgoing calls from a large number of private branch exchange switchboards is the largest board of the kind in operation, includes thirty operators' positions and handles a heavy traffic. A general explanation is given of the equipment of the board, methods used in operating it and of the economies realized by means of it. Specially interesting and important features in handling the telephone business of a large metropolitan area like Los Angeles are the methods used in caring for calls for time and for information concerning subscribers' numbers, addresses, etc., and for answering subscribers' complaints and calls for long distance connections. All of these methods are discussed at some length. The paper closes with a concise statement of the practise of using standards of adjustment and performance for securing uniformly good service from the automatic apparatus scattered over this area of about two hundred square miles and handling from 500,000 to 600,000 calls each week day."
"In this paper are laid down the conditions affecting the success, for both the public and the railroad, of a main line electrification project, as they have developed in the author's experience with the New Haven 11,000-volt, 25-cycle, single-phase, overhead contact system. Reliability of service and comfort and cleanliness in operation constitute success from the point of view of the public, while the railroad requires, in addition, economic success. Success is dependent, apart from the engineering, construction, and operating features, entirely upon the density of traffic. A commercially successful electrification is one which cuts the operating expenses of steam-operated territory it has replaced to a figure such that the savings effected are sufficient to justify the investment. The savings in operating expenses made by electrification are, in the order of their importance: saving in fuel; saving in motive-power maintenance and repairs; saving in train-miles. As specimens of the reliable data being obtained from the operation of the New Haven system, statistics from a recent monthly operating report are presented in tables as follows: 1. The amount, distribution and cost of electric power generated at Cos Cob station. 2. Statistics and operating costs of electric passenger service. 3. Statistics and operating costs of electric freight service. 4. Statistics covering line and equipment failures. Tables are also presented showing construction costs for catenary construction of different types, including anchor and sectionalizing bridges."
"Alfred W. Gibbs: While recognizing the merit of the paper and its frankness throughout, I call attention to a few points where it is not sufficiently explicit, or with which I do not agree."
