"In order to increase the usefulness of the library, the United Engineering Society has installed a photographic duplicating machine for the reproduction of pages from books and periodicals, maps and charts in the Library of the Engineering Societies, and it is now in operation. Orders may be sent to the Library of the Engineering Societies, Engineering Societies Building, New York."
"Boston. — May 16, 1916, Franklin Union. Election of officers for the ensuing year as follows — chairman, George A. Burnham; vice-chairman, Harry M. Hope; secretary-treasurer, Ira M. Cushing."
"Mr. Guido Semenza, of Milan, Italy, President of the Associazione Elettrotecnica Italiana, President of the Italian Committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission, and Local Honorary Secretary of the A. I. E. E. for Italy, has recently been promoted by the King of Italy from the rank of Cavaliere (“knight”) to that of Commendatore (“officer”) of the knighthood of the “Corona d'Italia.”"
"Silvanus Phillips Thompson. Hon. Mem. A. I. E. E., past-president of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, noted physicist and electrical engineer and celebrated as a teacher and writer on electricity and magnetism, died in London on June 13, 1916. He was born at York, England, June 19, 1851, and was educated at the Friends' School in that city, and the Founders' College. In 1869 he was graduated from London University with the degree of B. A. He then took up the study of chemistry and physics at the Royal School of Mines, and spent some time in study at Heidelberg and other foreign universities. Mr. Thompson was graduated from the University of London in 1875 with the degree of B. S. In 1878 he received the degree of doctor of science from the same university, and in that year was appointed professor of experimental physics in Bristol University College. Here he began a series of investigations covering a wide range of problems in physics and electricity. Professor Thompson applied the magnetic figures formed with iron filings to the explanation of electrodynamic relations and the action of the dynamoelectric machine. He applied Clerk Maxwell's electromagnetic theory of light to the explanation of the effect of tourmaline crystals on polarized light, and constructed electro-optic models of these crystals out of iron wire and glass. Professor Thompson's Cantor lectures in 1883 on the construction, theory and mode of operation of dynamoelectric machines established his reputation as an authority on the subject. In 1885 he was elected to fill the chair of physics at the City and Guilds Technical College, Finsbury, London, where he was also principal. Professor Thompson has always been famous as a writer on electrical subjects whose work was marked by unusual lucidity, directness and literary style. He also made many contributions to the history of science and philosophy. His “Elementary Lessons in Electricity and Magnetism” has been one of the most widely read treatises on the subject, and has been translated into many languages. Among his other well-known works are “Dynamo-electric Machinery,” “The Electromagnet,” “Polyphase Electric Currents and Motors,” “Michael Faraday — His Life and Work,” “Light, Visible and Invisible,” and the “Life of Lord Kelvin.” Professor Thompson was a member of many scientific and learned bodies, and had been honored by election to the presidency of many of them. He was first elected to membership in the American Institute of Electrical Engineers on October 27, 1897, and was elected an Honorary Member on March 13, 1914."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on June 15, 1916, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Otto B. Blackwell (communicated after adjournment): Without attempting a complete criticism of Mr. Gati's paper, I wish to comment on certain statements made in it, particularly those regarding telephony."
"E. E. F. Creighton: The question of the measurement of high frequency is always important, and always will be important until all the problems relative to the protection of apparatus are solved. Dr. Sharp's statement that the kenotron might be used for the measurement of high frequency is of the greatest importance. The dielectric spark lag of a perfect vacuum is practically infinite, because there are no ions present. Going down to a vacuum of something like fifteen millimeters in the usual gases the dielectric spark lag decreases to about the low value at atmospheric pressure."
"H. B. Williams: Mr. Flowers has made a definite and valuable contribution to the physiology of speech by showing that in whispered speech the vowel frequencies are very nearly the same for all adult individuals."
"H. F. T. Erben: I agree with Mr. Lamme's statements that iron losses may be approximated with extreme accuracy but these approximations must be based upon past experiences. Mr. Lamme calls attention to the extremely distorted wave form often encountered in variable speed motors and instances Fig. 6 of the paper as being a typical case. While the field form as shown in Fig. 6 is a fair representation of the conditions that may be met in a three to one variable speed motor, distortions of greater magnitude will be encountered if speed variations of four to one or five to one are attempted. I have in mind a four to one variable speed motor which at no load and full load and maximum speed had field forms as shown in Fig. 1. It will be noted that at full load the field form was so distorted that there was an actual reversal of flux in the leading pole tip and the flux density at the trailing tip was fifty per cent greater than at no load. When one considers that the teeth in the trailing tip under these conditions are well up to saturation and that the armature teeth are subjected to double frequency, due to the reversal of flux, it is inevitable that there will be extremely high losses. Losses due to distortions of this nature can be obviated by either providing compensating windings or by using very large air gaps."
"Philip Torchio: The most important results in the findings in these investigations are, first, that with ordinary frequencies of 25 to 60 cycles, the corrosion of underground structures is, practically nil. In this country some of the water companies are still objecting to having the electric lighting companies ground their neutrals to the pipes of the water companies. I think that the results of the investigation of the Bureau of Standards should dissipate any fear of trouble due to the grounding of neutrals to the water pipes."
"David B. Rushmore: As we all know, the world in its advance has been marked by certain definite epochs which have been associated more or less with certain inventions. Unfortunately, not all of these have been recorded in the United States Patent Office, because when man invented power and the use of powder, and the use of fire, the Patent Office was not organized."
"F. A. Lidbury: I am glad this question has been brought up, because there has been for years a tendency on the part of electrical engineers in connection with their valley load problems to assume that the electrochemical industries can offer an easy solution. The tendency appears in various ways. There is the steam central station man who comes to electrochemical manufacturers and says, “We can offer you lots of power at cheap rates if you will only take it for a few hours of the day.” When you find out what he means by cheap rates you get a shock; but putting that aside, and putting aside the fact that few electrochemical processes can operate satisfactorily in an intermittent manner, let us see what he is trying to do. He is trying to relieve his prospective customer of the investment portion of the cost of the steam power. What is forgotten is that he is asking the customer to increase his own investment charges."
"To the Standards Committee: As a result of the correspondence brought about by communications to each member of the Standards Sub-Committee on the Nomenclature of Alternating-Current Commutator Motors, and to a nunber of engineers interested in the subject, there were collected in concrete form the views of many persons concerning the solution of the problems assigned to the sub-committee."
"The Thirty-Third Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held at the Hollenden Hotel, Cleveland, Ohio, June 27 to 30, 1916. The Convention Committee and its various sub-committees have been actively engaged in formulating plans for the coming convention, which are now completed."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held January 14, 1916, the following resolutions were adopted:"
"The Annual Meeting of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York, on Tuesday, May 16, 1916, at 4:30 p. m. President John J. Carty called the meeting to order, and called upon Secretary Hutchinson to present the Annual Report of the Board of Directors for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1916. Copies of the report, which is printed in Section II in this issue of the Proceedings, were available at the meeting."
"The National Meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held simultaneously by means of longdistance telephone in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago and San Francisco, was called to order by President J. J. Carty, at 8.30 o'clock, Tuesday evening, May 16."
"The Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C., has recently issued scientific paper No. 273, entitled “General Design of Critically Damped Galvanometers.”"
"The following figures show the number of applications for admission to the Institute received from the beginning of the fiscal year, June 1, 1915, to May 31, 1916, inclusive:"
"To the President, American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Dear Sir: — This committee has carefully canvassed the ballots cast for officers for the year 1916–1917. The result is as follows:"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters in New York on Tuesday, May 16, 1916, at 2:30 p.m."
"Atlanta. — May 2, 3 and 4, 1916, Georgian Terrace Hotel. Conference on proposed National Safety Code, ninety-two representatives attending, with Dr. E. B. Rosa of the Bureau of Standards presiding."
"Mr. J. Roberts Wilson, formerly sales manager and vice-president of the Crocker-Wheeler Company of Ampere, N. J., has become associated with the Davison Chemical Corporation of Baltimore, Md., as manager of the companys office at 120 Broadway, New York."
"Enos M. Barton, chairman of the board of directors of the Western Electric Company, died on May 3, 1916, at his southern home in Biloxi, Miss., at the age of seventy-two years. He was born in Jefferson County, New York, and began work at the age of twelve as a messenger in the telegraph office at Watertown, N. Y. He became an operator, and worked in New York during the Civil War, sending night press reports. Then he went to Rochester as chief operator of the Western Union office in that city. In 1869 the Western Union shop at Cleveland, Ohio, was to be abandoned, and George W. Shawk, who had been foreman of the shop, bought part of the equipment and engaged in miscellaneous work, including the making of inventors' models. Mr. Barton went into partnership with him. This firm became successively Gray and Barton, the Western Electric Manufacturing Company, and the Western Electric Company. Mr. Barton was successively secretary, vice-president and president of the Western Electric Company, and since his retirement from the presidency in 1908 he had been chairman of its board of directors. He was elected an Associate of the Institute July 12, 1887."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on May 10, 1916, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"This list includes books on electrical subjects only, which have been added to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"The manner in which the electrically driven reversing rolling mill has been adopted especially within the last year, is surprising in view of the strongly entrenched position of the steam driven mill. Electric motors have been used for many years on mills running continuously in one direction, but many motor users have felt that the reversing mill could be better handled with the steam engine. There are naturally many characteristics little understood, due to the limited use in this country today. This paper answers some of the questions which are raised and describes the constructions that have been found desirable."
"The work of drilling, pumping and cleaning oil wells is very successfully handled by slip-ring induction motors. With the cable-tool method of drilling a special arrangement of controllers and resistance is used to obtain the required fine speed control. Similar motors are used for both this and the hydraulic rotary method. Pumping and cleaning, which includes ‘pulling’ the rods and tubing, are in most cases all performed by the same motor which may be a ‘Y-Delta’ or a two-speed machine, depending upon operating conditions. Both of these motors are double-rated, the low rating being used for pumping and the other for pulling and cleaning. High efficiency is essential on the pumping duty and high torque for the heavy work of pulling and cleaning the well. For both types of motors special control features are used to properly protect the equipment as well as to make it most convenient for the operator. For wells pumped by jack-rigs, a portable hoist is employed to pull rods and tubing. This paper presents data covering the horse power requirements and kilowatt-hour consumption for the various operations in drilling and maintaining producing oil wells."
"The dielectric strength of air, oil and solid insulations was determined for d-c. voltages up to 150 kv. The d-c. visual corona voltage is equal to the maximum a-c. corona voltage for wires varying in radius from 0.013 cm. to the largest sizes. The variation of d-c. and a-c. corona voltages with air density is the same over a large range. The laws already given for a-c. voltages apply equally well for d-c. voltages in terms of maximum values. The spark-over of gaps is the same on alternating current and direct current for equal maximum voltages when the gap is such that spark-over precedes corona. Thus, for the sphere gap the same laws apply for a-c. or d-c. voltages. This is true at various air densities. When corona precedes spark-over there is generally a difference in a-c. and d-c. spark-over voltages. For a non-symmetrical gap, spark-over at normal air density takes place at the lowest voltage when the electrode surrounded by the denser field is (+). At low air densities spark-over takes place when the electrode surrounded by the denser field is (−). Insulators spark-over at the lowest voltage when the cap, or electrode surrounded by the denser field, is (+). The (+) spark-over voltage generally corresponds closely to the maximum a-c. spark-over voltage. The d-c. spark-over voltages in oil generally correspond closely to the maximum a-c. spark-over voltages. In wet oil the d-c. spark-over voltage is lower than the a-c. The d-c. breakdown voltages of solid insulations, in good condition, are generally higher than the maximum a-c. voltages. This is especially so when the time of application is long and the insulation is thick. The d-c. breakdown voltage on insulations tested apparently increases directly with the thickness, while the a-c. breakdown voltage increases at a lesser rate. Laws are given. When the insulation is moist, the d-c. and maximum a-c. breakdown voltages are generally approximately the same. It appears that high voltage direct current would be useful in certain high voltage cable testing, etc."
"An instrument is described in which the first appearance of corona is used as a measure of the applied voltage. Three methods for detecting the first appearance of corona have been developed, in addition to the method of visual observation. These methods involve the use of the electroscope, the galvanometer, and the telephone respectively. For a given wire, in fixed relation to the opposite side of the circuit, corona-forming voltage depends on the density of the air, that is, on the pressure and temperature. The corona voltmeter consists of a grounded metal cylinder, with a central conductor on which corona is formed. Both cylinder and conductor are enclosed in a larger, air-tight cylinder, in which the pressure can be varied by a hand pump. This variation in pressure provides the means by which a wide range of voltage reading is possible. The calibration of the instrument is absolute, that is, can be calculated, or may be obtained by comparison with existing standards. The voltmeter is set for a given voltage by adjusting the pressure to a value calculated from the dimensions of the instrument and taken from a calibration table or curve. When the ascending voltage reaches the value for which the Voltmeter is set, corona begins, and this is sharply indicated by any one of the three methods mentioned. To measure an unknown voltage, the pressure is gradually lowered from some higher value and is read at the instant corona appears. A table of calculated values, or a calibration curve then gives the unknown voltage. Tests showing the constancy and permanence of the instrument are described."
"Investigations forming the basis of the paper have been carried on for a period of five years. They were made on a system which at present supplies service to 250,000 customers over some 3000 miles of circuit, through about 16,000 transformers. During the experiments a number of theories have been tried out in practise and the results of the experiments are given in some detail. At the beginning of 1915, three distinct types of arresters and three schemes of protection were in use. The conditions during the year 1915 and the records obtained from lightning storms during the year are set forth by means of a number of maps, drawings and tables. An analysis of the results is followed by a list of conclusions. The several methods of improving the lightning protection have together resulted in eliminating over 90 per cent of the troubles from lightning."
"This paper calls attention to the practicability of localizing line disturbances by means of transformers. Application is made to High Voltage Distribution Systems serving the rural communities which results in an interconnected net work of overhead lines. To be presented at the 33d Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Cleveland, O., June 27–30, 1916."
"This paper gives the results of megger tests made on disk insulators on a 66,000-volt transmission line in central Massachusetts after 2.5 years' operation. In one lot of 4410 insulators tested 9.77 per cent tested less than 2000 megohms. The percentage of failures in different positions in the string is given on both strain and suspension towers. The actual cost of making these tests under different conditions of weather and of service requirements is given per insulator on the line, per bad insulator and per tower. The cost per insulator on the line, of testing only, varied from 7.3 cents to 11 cents. The cost of replacing bad insulators was 74.5 cents per bad insulator, not including the cost of the replacing insulator. Laboratory tests made on 30 of the bad insulators taken from the line showed that those which measured very low by the megger fail on 60-cycle tests much below spark-over value while those with medium high resistance may reach flash-over value and then puncture within one minute. Some insulators which show infinite resistance by the megger, and which withstand arc-over potential at 60 cycles, will fail under high-frequency test immediately."
"The paper gives the results of numerous experiences in testing porcelain insulators particularly in regard to porosity, absorption of water, surface leakage and dielectric losses. Considerable energy is required to drive moisture out of a porous insulator and it has been found best to restrict the oscillator testing to dry porcelain, whereas the wetter the porcelain the more effective is the 60-cycle test."
"Attention is drawn to the known disadvantages of the uneven distribution of voltage in long strings of disks. The general theory showing how the distribution is determined by the various capacities of the units is given. It is shown how the distribution can be improved by grading, or varying the internal capacity of the units. The proposed method of grading consists in placing flat metal rings on the insulator, around the cap and stud respectively, the porcelain disk being enlarged for this purpose. A simple method of measuring the voltage distribution is described using a single needle gap. The results of tests with and without grading are given, the graded strings showing a decidedly better distribution of voltage."
"The protective features described in this paper are some of those now in use on the system of the Public Service Electric Co. which serves a population of about 2,200,000. The most interesting protective devices and schemes discussed in this paper are as follows: Aluminum cell arresters; arcing ground suppressor; faulty cable localizer; cable testing; high potential and high frequency testing; generator bus connection scheme; exciter connection scheme; reactors; relays; multi-recorder; insulation resistance recorder; air washers; resistance bulbs and thermo-couples; dampers on air blast transformers; coherer alarm devices; potential indicating devices."
"RECOGNIZING the absence of conclusive data on the altitude correction to be applied to the temperature rise of electrical apparatus, and further the lack of uniformity of the general practise as well as the frequent entire omission of the correction, the Transmission Committee undertook the collection of data as to the opinion and practise of operating engineers and sent a list of questions to 150 companies and individuals."
"Since electricity has become recognized as the most important means for transmitting energy the value of uniformity in voltage and frequency has become more and more apparent. The phenomenal growth during the last few years in the electrical industry has been due as much to the marked advances in the methods for maintaining a uniform service as to any other cause. During this period of rapid development many papers have been written, setting forth different ideas as to ways of providing against interruptions. At the beginning, these ideas varied greatly, but now there seems to be some hope for a more uniform practise as to this type of apparatus. In writing this paper I have assumed that the field has been pretty well covered so far as the prevention of interruptions goes, but have to call attention to that class of interruptions which so far have been and will likely continue to be unavoidable; and have endeavored to describe certain means whereby the effect of unavoidable interruptions may be reduced to a minimum."
"The overhead grounded wire is used for three purposes: lightning protection, mechanical support for towers, and a test circuit. The functions of the grounded wire are subdivided into at least four categories: First, the vertical grounded wire; second, the lightning rod extending above the ground; third the electrostatic induction in the horizontally situated wires, and fourth, electromagnetic induction. The vertical wire prevents splitting of the poles. The lightning rod is of mooted desirability. The electrostatic induction for a given cloud on wires under various conditions is worked out in this paper. There is given also the protective values of overhead grounded wires in different positions and in different numbers. The effects of electromagnetic inductions have been taken into account. Theory is given to show that the grounded wire introduces into the main wave of induced lightning surge a superposed high frequency of electromagnetic induction. The several factors to be taken into account in the process of determining the protective value of a grounded wire are as follows: 1. Strength of electric field in the neighborhood of the line wires. 2. The direction of the gathering charge in the cloud, that is the path of the discharge relative to the line, parallel or perpendicular to the line before it turns vertically downward to the earth. 3. The screening effect obtained by the use of several wires, with and without grounded wires. 4. The initial momentary potential induced on a wire at the instant the cloud discharges to earth. 5. An instant after the lightning discharge has taken place, the sudden increase in capacitance between the power wire and the adjacent parallel grounded wire. 6. The effect of the number and location of parallel grounded wires. 7. The effect of electromagnetic induction between the horizontal part of the grounded wire and the parallel power wires, in which the energy of the lightning charge on the grounded wire is more or less transferred to the power wire, instead of being dissipated in the earth. High frequencies are produced in this transformation. 8. The gradual transference of the charge which travels along the power wire to the successive sections of the grounded wire and its dissipation in the earth. A cloud charge is chosen of such value as to produce corona potential on a No. 000 B. & S. wire, strung at a height of 1000 cm. (33 ft.) above the surface of the earth. This storm cloud is used as a standard in all cases for comparison. The induced voltage on any wire by lightning is directly proportional to the height of the wire above the earth. The induced quantity is not quite proportional due to the variations in the capacitance of the wire at different heights. For heights between 30 and 60 ft. (9.1 and 18.2 m.), however the quantity can be considered as approximately proportional to the height. The quantity induced on the wire is only slightly affected by the diameter of the wire. This leads to the conclusion that a small grounded wire is nearly as effective as a more expensive large one. The theory is given to show that even on a non-grounded circuit a charge can be induced by a cloud and produce practically the same potentials as when the circuit is grounded. The only exception is that of circuits of short length. The instantaneous value of induced potential on a circuit is independent of the number of wires used. Using a greater number of wires reduces the quantity per wire but does not decrease the instantaneous value of the potential at the instant the cloud discharges to earth. Even the grounded wire may take the full potential and give no relief at the first instant. Whether it does or not depends upon how quickly the discharge takes place from cloud to earth, and how frequently along the line the grounded wire is earthed. There is, however, a screening of electrical energy by increasing the number of power wires. In other words, each surge has less energy although it has not initially less potential. There is given a table of the reduction of quantity per wire as the wires increase in number from one to seven. The two factors in the electrostatic protection of the overhead grounded wire are screening and increase of capacitance of line wires. The presence of the grounded wire reduces the quantity induced on each of the power wires and incidentally after the cloud discharges to earth the grounded wire takes over part of the charge from the power wires and in taking it the capacitance of each power wire is increased. Therefore, with the same quantity of electricity the potential is reduced by this increase in capacitance. The protection afforded by one parallel grounded wire can be expressed as a very simple equation. The protection for each power wire can be calculated entirely independent of how many there are. The general equation to express the protection afforded by two parallel grounded wires is more complex but if the two grounded wires are placed far apart their protective values can, with only a small error, be calculated independently. As the charge runs to earth on the grounded wire at the instant the cloud discharges, it induces on the line wire by electromagnetic induction a considerable voltage in the usual conditions of the overhead grounded wire with low resistance in the earth connections and from which part of the protection afforded by the grounded wire is lost by the fact that the energy oscillates in the ground circuit and is transferred to the power wire. The natural frequency of this wave train is found by multiplying 183,000 miles (300,000 km.) per second by the number of earth connections per mile of grounded wire. The frequency is usually over a million cycles per second. Traveling waves are more or less absorbed as they pass each successive loop of the grounded wire, according to the value of the resistance of earth connection. In any case an endeavor should be made to have the resistance in the earth connection somewhere near the critical damping value. This prevents initial oscillations in the ground circuit and also increases the rate of absorption of a traveling wave. A slight amount of high frequency is produced in a circuit by transposition of power wires. This may be of the order of 2 per cent to 5 per cent of the main voltage. The general deductions for practical use taken from the theory given are as follows: From a theoretical standpoint a single grounded wire should be placed as near as practicable to the power wire in order to get the greatest electrostatic protection. The grounded wires are a little more effective when placed above a power wire than when placed below it. In installing overhead grounded wires the greatest advantage can be obtained by keeping the overhead grounded wires as far apart as possible, that is to say, installed, as far as practicable on opposite sides of the power wires. The protective value of the second wire will then have its full maximum possible value. Also from the electromagnetic standpoint, the two wires should be placed, so far as practicable, on opposite sides of a power wire in order to reduce to a minimum the transfer of surge energy to the power wire. The most practicable condition of protection by four grounded wires is to use the four wires in a rectangular formation which gives the widest separation. Naturally two will be above the power wires and the other two will be either below or at each side about on a level with the two lowest power wires. The mechanical conditions of installation will dictate where these wires will be hung and it is necessary to follow the rule to make the distances between the several grounded wires as great as the conditions will permit and still keep the grounded wires as near a power wire as safe mechanical clearance will justify."
"In the calculation of alternating current phenomena by means of complex quantities, as a rule, the rectangular components of the vector are used, and the rectangular form involving the operator $j = \\sqrt {-1}$ is more common than the polar or exponential forms which involve the operators (cos θ + j sin θ) or jθ; although it is recognized that the latter are very convenient in certain cases. A simple method for dealing directly with the vectors themselves is described in the paper and it consists in introducing the operator jn, where n, contrary to ordinary usage, may be any positive or negative fraction. Just as j or j1 rotates the quantity before which it is placed through 1 × 90 degrees, so jn rotates the number into which it is multiplied through n × 90 degrees. The operator jn follows the rules of ordinary algebra and according to these the different algebraic operations of multiplication etc., are developed in section II. In section III a few illustrative problems are given; these are followed by a critical resume in section IV. At the end, for convenience of reference a summary of formulas is given, and a very short bibliography is included."
"In this paper is given a complete report on an investigation of tractive resistances of urban roads to a motor delivery wagon equipped with solid rubber tires. The “tractive resistance” as used in this paper, includes still-air resistance, but does not include wind resistance and the resistances internal to the truck. The test truck is fully described with its driving mechanism and the storage battery which supplied the motive power. The investigation involved test runs over definite lengths of road, at measured truck speeds, to determine the gross battery output during these runs; and laboratory tests to determine the overall efficiency of the truck between battery terminals and rear-wheel treads at speeds and loads corresponding to the road tests. The results included in the paper are (1) overall efficiency of truck mechanism and (2) tractive resistances of a number of typical urban roads. The components of tractive resistance for a typical road are also given."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its Thirty-Second Annual Report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1916. A General Balance Sheet showing the financial condition of the Institute on April 30, 1916, together with other financial statements, is included herein."
"A meeting of the Institute will be held at Washington, D. C., on Wednesday, April 26, 1916, under the auspices of the Washington Section and the Committee on Development of Water Power."
"As announced in the March Proceedings, the Annual Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held at Cleveland, June 27 to 30. The Convention Committee has designated the Hollenden Hotel as convention headquarters for this convention, and it has appointed various sub-committees as follows:"
"To the Board of Directors, American Institute of Electrical Engineers: Gentlemen: This Committee has counted and canvassed, in accordance with Article VI of the Constitution, the nomination ballots received for officers of the Institute for 1916–1917. The result is as follows:"
"The following document has been submitted for publication in the Proceedings."
"The American Institute of Electrical Engineers serves the purpose of giving cooperative association to the professional work of electrical engineers. This is important because no professional man in this age can do constructive work for himself alone. Cooperation and interchange of knowledge with others is a necessary part of professional life. The conditions of the old time, one-man service, have passed away — probably forever. However high up a man may now go, he must cooperate cordially and loyally with his associates, and they must cooperate with him: and through the American Institute of Electrical Engineers the various men in our branch of the engineering profession have the opportunity to become acquainted with each other, to know and appreciate the work of their professional rivals and associates, and to enlarge and improve the cooperation between man and man and between groups of the profession."
"To the Board of Trustees United Engineering Society: I respectfully submit the following report of your Treasurer for the year ending December 31, 1915."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters in New York on Friday, March 10, 1916, at 3:30 p.m."
"Baltimore. — February 11, 1916, Physical Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University. Paper: “Physical Aspects of Radiotelegraphy,” by John L. Hogan, Jr. Attendance 46."
"Mr. Daniel W. Mead and Mr. F. W. Scheidenhelm announce their association in the practise of engineering, with offices in the Equitable Building, 120 Broadway, New York. They will continue to give their attention to reports, designs and construction, covering hydraulic and electric developments, water supply and reclamation works."
"Henry William Pope, brother of Honorary Secretary Ralph W. Pope and of the late Past-President Franklin L. Pope, died at Bellerose, Long Island, N. Y., February 29, 1916, at the age of sixty-eight. Mr. Pope was born in Great Barrington, Mass., November 2, 1848. He succeeded his brothers as manager of the telegraph office at that place at the age of 14. In 1863 he was transferred to the main office of the American Telegraph Company in New York. After service as an operator in Boston, Mr. Pope became in 1872 chief operator of the Gold and Stock Telegraph Company and in the following year assistant general superintendent of the American District Telegraph Company in New York. From 1876 to 1879 he was general superintendent of the company, and introduced the first telephone ever installed for commercial purposes in New York, the first adaptation of the simultaneous telephone and telegraph principle, and improvised and constructed in 1877 the first telephone hook switch, installed in the office of the Roosevelt organ factory in Eighteenth Street. From 1879 to 1882 Mr. Pope was general superintendent of the New York Bell Telephone Company, and one of the appraisers of the telephone property in New York City, prior to the consolidation of the telephone interests. He organized the first telephone convention, at Niagara Falls. In 1883 he organized the Mutual District Messenger Company of New York. Mr. Pope then engaged in the organizing and constructing of a large number of street railway and electric light plants in different cities, notably the Citizens' Electric Illuminating Company of Brooklyn, of which he was president — the first company to introduce electric lights in the city of Brooklyn. In 1895 he again identified himself with the telephone interests, serving in various official capacities with the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company. In 1900 he was appointed acting general manager of the Bell Telephone Company of Buffalo, operating the territory in the western part of the State of New York. In 1904 he became a special agent of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, New York. It was the opinion among telephone men that Mr. Pope had probably done more than any other one telephone official in America to advance the popularity of the telephone with the public at large and with business men. Mr. Pope was the organizer of the Telephone Pioneers of America. He was elected an Associate of the Institute March 23, 1898."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on March 2, 1916, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"This list includes books on electrical subjects only, which have been added to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"During the past 10 years, the operation of electric railways at d-c. voltages of 1200 and 1500 has become common and higher voltages have been shown to be practicable. The paper deals first with the fundamental differences in apparatus for 1200 or 1500 volts as compared with the former 600-volt standards and indicates the apparent tendency of general practise with regard to a number of alternative constructions which must usually be considered in each specific application of these systems. Referring then to the use of higher d-c. voltages which is just beginning, it points out the tendency to reach an ultimate maximum by employing a multiplicity of voltages differing but slightly from each other, such as 2400, 3000, 3600, 4200, etc, for successive installations. It recommends, in order to avoid the confusion which must surely result from this, that efforts be made to establish at once a single standard for high-voltage lines. The paper shows that final standards in voltage are usually fixed by broad economic considerations rather than by physical limitations and suggests that 5000 volts direct current would offer a very satisfactory voltage for such a standard if commercial apparatus for this voltage were available. Finally, it touches briefly upon the operation of the experimental 5000-volt line at Jackson, Michigan, which has been so successful as to give great hope that the system will be commercially developed."
"The paper falls logically into three divisions: (1) A general review of the principal laws of the dissipation of heat, — radiation, conduction and convection. (2) the development of a simple formula for the effect of altitude on the cooling of surfaces of different shapes, and (3) a general discussion of the method of conducting experimental observations at different altitudes, on three different shaped surfaces. 1. The first division is principally historical in that the most reliable data is given as found from former laboratory investigations, to determine (a) the laws of heat dissipation and (b) the effects of various factors on these laws. This is given as a preparatory step to determining the formula in division 2. 2. It is shown in the second division that, where the loss by convection varies as the 1.25 power of the temperature rise and as the 0.5 power of pressure, the “temperature rise” varies as the 0.4 power of pressure. It is then shown that the temperature rise increases, in going from a lower to a higher altitude, at a uniform rate of about 5 per cent for each 1000 meters change in elevation. Since this applies only to loss of heat by convection, a correction factor is added to reduce this effect when radiation (same in vacuo as in gas) enters into the dissipation of heat. This factor is first expressed in percentage of convection loss to total loss, and then expressed in terms of the developed surface effective for convection, and the envelope surface effective for radiation. This is called the “shape-factor” S. The percentage increase in temperature then is equal to 5 AS where A is the difference in altitude expressed in kilometers. The above is for a loss unaffected by temperature. Where the loss is in copper windings, an increase in temperature, due to changes in pressure, has the effect of increasing the loss, which in turn still further increases the temperature rise. It is shown by mathematical treatment that this effect increases the value 5 AS to 5.85 AS for all copper loss. For various ratios of copper to iron loss (unaffected by temperature), the term becomes, close enough for practical purposes, AS (5 + α), where a is percentage of copper loss to total loss. The calculated values are then compared with the observed values. 3. In this division the method of carrying on the experimental observations is gone into somewhat in detail."
"F. D. Newbury: It is really surprising, as the author points out, how little thorough work has been done by American engineers on this subject. While Boucherot's paper was presented in 1911, in 1912 and even in 1913 the practise of engineers in this country was decidedly loose; for example, there was no distinction made between the maximum possible short-circuit current or the value of short-circuit current in the special case of a symmetrical wave. In my own experience, it was an open question in 1912, whether the important value was the maximum possible short-circuit current, occurring when the alternator was short-circuited at the zero point of the voltage wave, or whether the symmetrical wave was the one to consider in practical problems."
"H. Weichsel: The design methods given by Mr. Hamilton can, according to my judgment, in some cases be shortened without interfering with the accuracy of the results. In some other cases it is possible to obtain somewhat more accurate results, without increasing noticeably the time required for the calculation."
"H. Weichsel. A few words in regard to the working characteristic of this machine, might be of interest. Mr. Fynn shows in his paper, a series of test curves. A study of these curves shows that this type of machine acts very much like a synchronous motor. With a certain compensation the power factor of the machine at no-load is leading. When the load increases, the power factor approaches unity, and with still further increase of load, the power factor goes slightly below unity. An over-excited synchronous motor shows exactly the same behavior."
"Charles A. Hobein: I think probably the chief cooperation of the municipalities in public utility management has been in the operation of electric railways. Particularly, the cities seem to have taken more of a part in the detail work of the railways rather than in the electric light or gas business. Of course, I am not speaking of the water systems which are largely municipally owned."
"Herman von Schrenk: Mr. Hosford brought out the important factor about the changes which take place in poles after service and I note throughout the discussion, in the report and in the tables that the word decay is used. I judge from the description which Mr. Hosford gave us just now that the word decay as he used it, refers not so much to the impregnated portions of the pole as to the parts which lie beneath those portions. The experience which we have had in other structures, notably in railroad trestles, with piling, etc., has been entirely in accord with the observations he gives here. I only recently had occasion to condemn a railroad structure of creosoted piling, 180 feet long, after only four years of service, which showed marked decay, when, as a matter of fact those parts of the wood impregnated with the creosoted oil were perfectly sound; but, just as in the case of the poles described as being subjected to brush treatment, the fungus spores had penetrated through the season checks and brought about decay underneath. What I want to know is, did Mr. Hosford in an examination of these poles find any of that decay in the impregnated sections of the wood — this question refers particularly to the butt or full cell process — in which the creosote had penetrated?"
"E. J. McCausland: Are they doing anything in the University of Illinois in the way of popularizing engineering work? What Professor Paine has presented to us is largely, and in fact altogether, along very definite, scientific, high class engineering. I understand at the University of Wisconsin, and I know at the Iowa State College, a good deal is being done along the lines of more popular work. Is there anything of that sort being done in the University of Illinois?"
"M. G. Lloyd: One interesting thing about this work is the methods of measurement which have been used. It seems to me the methods used by the first authors, at least the principal method used, that involving the volt-second-meter which, I think, is what is usually called a flux meter, is applicable only to specimens with very large cross-sections, such as the cores of transformers or other large pieces of apparatus. I should think with a small specimen it would not be feasible to take such readings as are described. Measurements on an apparatus of that kind are always valuable with the object of applying the results to other similar apparatus. I always feel they are not of much value when getting the constants of the material, determining a physical law, or determining exponents, for the reason that there is a very nonuniform distribution of the flux. The flux-density varies considerably over the area of the material being tested, and that fact is likely to vitiate the results so far as determining the constant of the material is concerned. On that account I think it preferable to make use of test specimens for that particular purpose, as has been done in the other paper."
"George R. Dean: For some time I have been resolving magnetic fields into their higher harmonics, and wished for some convenient process. All this time I have been using the general procedure which involves a lot of integration, the combining of all kinds of hard integrals, I got my results all right, but now I am checking them up by Mr. Weichsel's method. Of course, these field waves as you call them, are to some extent a guess, their shape is not anything like as simple as one would think from the figures, but they come pretty close to being rectangles, trapezoidals, etc. One very interesting thing which I have been doing is to try to predetermine the harmonics in the current and field waves of alternators, transformers, motors, etc. And in order to get at the thing at all I have to decompose these magnetic fields."
"Leo Keller: After I read Mr. Campbell's paper I decided it might be of general interest to say a little of the details of some of the cut-over work which was necessary, due to the fact that the original plant as laid out by the engineers was altogether knocked out by the tremendous growth and spread of the city of Los Angeles, growth in population and also in area. However, one feature of these changes, namely, the final cut-over, deserves a more detailed description, especially as the management of the Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. was very much opposed to any changing of subscribers' telephone numbers. This cut-over was, therefore, laid out with a view to letting each subscriber retain his old number and is more fully described below."
"R. W. Sorensen: I wish to bring before this transmission session the outline of a method of eliminating by means of transformers, abnormal voltages in an extensive high-voltage transmission and distribution system operating in Southern California. This system when completed was practically as is shown in Fig. 1, with this exception: at the station marked “Vernon” there was no bank of transformers installed for the suppression of disturbances as given in the diagram. Thus it will be seen that the distribution network was made up of approximately 250 miles of 18-kv. line and 100 miles of 60-kv. line, all three-phase, and interconnected at Eagle Rock, as shown, and also at Vernon and at another point 50 miles from Vernon through delta-delta transformer banks, these latter connections not being shown in the diagram. Added to this there is, of course, the 3-phase, 150-kv. transmission line feeding the Eagle Rock station."
"E. E. F. Creighton: This double connection of two-phase and three-phase is a great convenience where so many of the systems in the country are being changed over from two-phase to three-phase. There are certain disadvantages in the two-phase system, notably the greater number of surges which occur. Without analyzing the difference, we give it recognition practically by the fact that in a two-phase system of the same voltage as a three-phase system, we have to use more gaps in series in the multi-gap arrester."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"The 327th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Boston, Mass., Friday, December 8, 1916, under the auspices of the Boston Section and the Protective Devices Committee of the Institute. The Committee meetings in the morning and the technical session in the afternoon will be held at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge."
"The John Fritz Medal, given in recognition of notable scientific or industrial achievement, which was provided for by a fund subscribed in memory of the great engineering pioneer, John Fritz, was awarded in January, 1916, to Dr. Elihu Thomson, past-president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, “for achievements in electrical inventions, in electrical engineering, and in industrial development, and in scientific research.”"
"As provided in Section 20 of the Institute by-laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1917, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than fifty members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1917. For the convenience of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available."
"Dr. James Douglas of New York has presented $100,000 to the United Engineering Society, the income to be used for the benefit of the Library of the Engineering Societies."
"The 326th meeting of the Institute was held in New York, in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, on Friday, November 10, 1916, and was devoted to a topical discussion on the subject of “Inventories and Appraisals.”"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, November 10, 1916, at 3:30 p.m."
"Baltimore. — October 20, 1916, John Hopkins University. Paper: “Corona Voltmeter,” by J. B. Whitehead. After presentation of the paper Dr. Whitehead gave a demonstration of the operation of the instrument and other corona phenomena. Attendance 35."
"Mr. Walter C. Allen was recently appointed by the District Commissioners to the position of executive officer of the Public Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia. Mr. Allen has been in the service of the District about 22 years, having started with the street-lighting division as superintendent of lamps. In 1904 the position of electrical engineer was created and Mr. Allen became the District's first electrical engineer, which is the same as superintendent of the department. Under his administration a large number of Washington's streets have been provided with improved lighting systems."
"Arthur Clarke Eastwood, Fel. A. I. E. E., President of the Electric Controller and Manufacturing Company, of Cleveland, Ohio, died October 17, 1916 at Battle Creek, Michigan. Mr. Eastwood received his early education in the public schools of Louisville, Kentucky, and his technical education at the Rose Polytechnic Institute, from which he was graduated in 1898. Soon after he entered the electrical department of the Homestead Steel Works, and was associated with Mr. A. C. Dinkey in the first extensive applications of electrical power in the manufacture of steel. He left Homestead to accept the position of electrical engineer for the mills of the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Railway Company, then building at Ensley, Alabama. He was then asked to come to Cleveland to accept the positions of electrical engineer for the Wellman-Seaver Engineering Company and chief engineer for the newly formed Electric Controller and Supply Company. As a result of Mr. Eastwood's inventive ability, the growth of the latter company was so rapid that he was soon forced to give the business his entire attention, under the title of general manager and chief engineer. About 1905 Mr. Eastwood and his associates reorganized the company, and the firm name was changed to the Electric Controller and Manufacturing Company, with Mr. Eastwood as active head of both the financial and engineering phases of the business. He was the patentee of nearly one hundred inventions, covering all phases of electrical control and power generation. One of his most important achievements was the lifting magnet. The development of this appliance, which has saved the steel industry many millions of dollars, was entirely Mr. Eastwood's work. His inventive ability, while great, was less of a factor in his success than his winning personality and strong character, which enabled him to build up an organization of devoted and loyal assistants. Mr. Eastwood was first elected to membership in the Institute as an Associate on March 27, 1903, and was transferred to the grade of Fellow April 9, 1913."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on November 2, 1916, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should. be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"This list includes books on electrical subjects only, which have been added to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"This paper is really a series of more or less disconnected notes dealing with the question of rupturing capacity of oil breakers. It makes no attempt to go into the theory of circuit breaker design, and its main object is to open up a discussion regarding the advisability of using the term “Maximum Safe Rupturing Capacity” to describe the result obtained by the root-mean-square of the maximum peak of the current wave that occurs while the breaker is opening, multiplied by the root-mean-square of the open circuit voltage that occurs immediately after the breaker opens. Attention is called to the different ratings due to use of peak values and root-mean-square values of current voltage. It is recommended that an oil switch or an oil circuit breaker should be given a rating on the basis of maximum safe rupturing capacity that it can handle, and that a breaker after opening a short circuit up to its rating, should be immediately reclosable, and able to again open up a similar short circuit; breaker should open three successive short circuits before contacts need be repaired or oil replaced; these short circuits may be as close as two minutes apart."
"N. A. Carle: I think that in general it is recognized that higher temperatures occur in transformers, motors and generators at altitudes above 600 feet than for the same loads at sea level. At the present time, I understand, the Standards Committee of the Institute is trying to determine a suitable corrective factor or formula to meet this condition."
"Paper points out several difficulties, which are encountered in the rating of actual circuit breakers, but generally favors that these ratings be on the basis of the current to be opened in the arc at the operating voltage of the system."
"As announced in previous issues of the Proceedings, the Pacific Coaast Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held in Seattle, Wash., September 5th to 9th, 1916. The headquarters during the convention will be at the Hotel Washington where the technical sessions will be held. All of the papers for this meeting have been previously published in the Proceedings except one by Messrs, Griswold and Mastick entitled “Inductive Interference as a Practical Problem”. This paper will be found elsewhere in this issue."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute for the administrative year beginning on August 1, 1916, was held in New York on Tuesday August 8, at 3 p.m."
"It is with much pleasure that we are now able to announce that the American Society of Civil Engineers has decided to establish its headquarters in the Engineering Societies Building, and has already entered the United Engineering Society as a Founder Society on the same basis as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining Engineers, and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Panama. — July 30, 1916, Balboa Heights, C. Z., Paper: “The Telephone System of the Panama Canal”, by Charles L. Bleakly. An inspection of the Balboa Heights telephone exchange followed the meeting. Attendance 51."
"Mr. John F. Vaughan, for the last fourteen years with Stone and Webster organization, announces that he has opened an office at 185 Devonshire Street, Boston, for the general practise of engineering."
"Harold Lomas, Assoc. A. I. E. E., formerly of New York, lieutenant of the Twentieth Manchester Regiment, was killed in action in France July 1, 1916. Lieutenant Lomas was born in Manchester, England, forty-two years ago. He was graduated from Manchester Academy and Victoria University, where he took engineering honors. He came to New York in 1900 and was connected with the Crocker-Wheeler Company. After the outbreak of the war he returned to England, obtained his commission, and was sent to the front on November 5, 1915. He was elected an Associate of the Institute May 19, 1903"
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on August 3, 1916, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"This list includes books on electrical subjects only, which have been added to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"In this paper are given a review of the factors which affect inductive interference in telephone circuits from high voltage power transmission circuits, a presentation of the practical considerations regarding the reduction of the interference, and a description of actual cases of the application of these means of reduction. Distinction is made between the effect of balanced and of residual voltages and currents on the power circuit and between the effect of voltages induced between the wires and those induced between wires and ground. The wave shapes of the voltages and currents in the power circuits have a very important effect in the amount of inductive interference in telephone circuits. The precision of the electrical balance of the power circuit is also important because of the relatively very large effects of unbalanced voltages and currents in producing inductive interference. A discussion is given of the principles to be used in the design of coordinated transposition schemes for power circuits and telephone circuits which parallel each other, and schemes are described which have been devised for application to the telephone circuits in order to simplify the design of transpositions in the power circuits which make it possible to balance the induced voltages. A detailed discussion is given of three particular cases of parallels showing the application to them of the different methods by which inductive interference can be reduced. In the Appendix is an outline of information regarding parallels intended to facilitate the determination of the remedial measures desirable in any given case for reducing inductive interference."
"ALLOW me to commence these remarks by saying how deeply sensible I am of the honor of addressing this representative gathering of American electrical engineers. Thoughtful Europeans, as Lord Bryce well said, have begun to realize the increasing influence of this vast country in the affairs of the world, and the splendor of the part reserved to you in the development of civilization. A brief visit to your hospitable shores has been an inspiration and has enabled me to appreciate, in some small measure, the freedom of your thought, and the breadth of your conceptions. Such is the grandeur of your outlook that I can but echo what was so beautifully expressed by one of the orators at the recent Harvard commencement exercises, namely, that the world needs you and the world will heed you if you but acquit yourselves as men!"
"Harold Goodwin, Jr.: These relays presented by Mr. Ricketts in this paper are most interesting, and the results of the operation of the system of the Baltimore Consolidated Gas, Electric Light & Power Company, particularly in connection with the current received from Holtwood show their very great efficiency."
"E. E. F. Creighton: Of Mr. Roper's paper I will say, first, that I think it is a piece of scientific work on a magnificent scale of very great value to the electrical industry. It differs from most of the work, in that it is finished. The whole electrical industry is benefited, new principles have been proved and some principles have been disproved and discarded. There will be a chance to get better service on the part of those who wish it, and better lightning arresters. From my own standpoint I wish to acknowledge a great benefit derived from Mr. Roper's work in that it made possible to choose between several factors of design of lightning arresters, and thereby improved the product for everybody."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The 317th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, on Friday, January 14, 1916, at 8:15 p.m."
"As provided in Section 18 of the Institute by-laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1916, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than fifty members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1916. For the convenience of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available."
"The question “Why should one join the A. I. E. E.?” is one often repeated. It is the intention of the Membership Committee to print in the Proceedings from time to time some answers which may assist those contemplating membership to determine the effect of such alliance."
"A notable conference was held in the headquarters of the Institute, beginning October 25, 1915, and lasting two weeks, on the National Electrical Safety Code which has been prepared by the Bureau of Standards. It had been expected that a conference would be held in Washington, beginning October 27, at which delegates were to attend from the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the National Electric Light Association, the American Electric Railway Association, the telephone interests, the fire and casualty insurance interests, the state industrial and public service commissions, several of the larger cities, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the National Safety Council, and a considerable number of engineers representing groups of utility companies with which the representatives of the Bureau of Standards had held conferences in different parts of the country. The expectation was that this conference would discuss and amend the code as presented by the Bureau, and then approve it for use, the recommendation of the Bureau being that for the first year the code be adopted on trial, subject to amendment at the end of the year. However, at the urgent request of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, of the National Electrical Light Association, and the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies, the Bureau postponed the Washington conference and held instead a conference with representatives of the various utilities that are affected by the code and of some of the electrical manufacturers. The object of this conference was to enable a thorough study of the code to be made in conjunction with the representatives of the Bureau of Standards, by representatives from various parts of the country of the electric light and power companies, the steam and electric railways, the telephone and telegraph companies, and the manufacturers. The delegates included those previously appointed by the engineering societies to attend the Washington conference, together with a large number of others selected to give the best representation possible for the different parts of the country and the different interests. Six engineers from the Pacific coast came east especially to attend the conference, one of whom represented the California Industrial Accident Commission, which has been cooperating with the Bureau in the preparation of the code. Eighty-five persons in all attended the sessions, a majority of whom remained through the entire conference."
"The 316th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Friday, December 10, 1915, beginning at 8:15 p.m."
"The Board of Directors of the Institute held its regular monthly meeting in New York on Friday, December 10, 1915, at 3:30 p.m."
"Baltimore. — November 19, 1915, Physical Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University. Papers: (1) “The Combined Operation of Steam and Hydraulic Power in the Pennsylvania Water and Power Company's System,” by J. A. Walls; (2) “Construction Elements of the Tallulah Falls Development,” by C. G. Adsit. Attendance 30."
"Mr. Frank B. Dunn, formerly an electrical engineer with the Western Electric Company, having completed his post-graduate work in Ohio State University, has returned to China and is connected with the Hunan Telephone Company as engineer in charge of plant department."
"William Weeden Cole, Mem. A. I. E. E., consulting engineer and member of the firm of Cole, Ives and Davidson, of New York, died at Poughkeepsie, N. Y., December 20, 1915. Mr. Cole was 48 years old and a graduate of Worcester Polytechnic Institute, class of 1887. After several years of railroad work in the West, Mr. Cole came to Boston as electrical superintendent of the West End Street Railroad. From 1892 to 1908 he was associated with the Elmira, N. Y., Water, Light and Railroad Company as vice-president and general manager. Later he became consulting engineer for Day and Zimmerman of Philadelphia and New York. Retiring from this connection, he opened a consulting office in New York in 1914, later becoming a member of the firm of Cole, Ives and Davidson. Mr. Cole was the first president of the Empire State Gas and Electric Association. He was elected an Associate of the Institute on April 25. 1902, and was transferred to the grade of Member on October 23, 1903."
"Champion, Charles S., Patent Lawyer, 2 Rector St., New York, N. Y. Feiker, Frederick Morris, Editor, Electrical World, New York; res., 152 Sycamore Ave., Mt. Vernon, N. Y."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"This list includes books on electrical subjects only, which have been added to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"In Part I it is shown how, from the integral of the general differential equation of the electric circuit, which has been discussed in a previous paper, all the types of electric currents are derived as special cases, corresponding to particular values of the integration constants. The equations of the circuits with massed constants, that is, the usual electric circuits, are derived by substituting zero for the (electrical) length of the circuit. Besides the general transients, discussed in a previous paper, three main classes of currents are shown to exist, corresponding to different values of the time exponent b: The alternating currents, corresponding to b = imaginary, which are the useful currents of our electric circuits. The impulse currents, corresponding to real values of b, which may be called harmful currents of our electric circuits. And, as limit case, for b = 0, the continuous-current circuit with distributed constants. The last case, a continuous current in a circuit with distributed resistance and leakage, is discussed, and it is shown that such continuous-current circuit has many features which are usually considered as typical of alternating-current wave transmission. It consists of a main current and a return current; complete reflection occurs at the end of the circuit; partial reflection at a transition point; a surge resistance exists, which, connected to the circuit, passes the current without reflection. In Part II an outline of the theory of impulse currents is given. They comprise two classes, the non-periodic and the periodic impulse currents. The equations of both are given in different form, by exponential and by hyperbolic or trigonometric functions. Their characteristics are: Impulse current and voltage may be resolved into a main wave and a return wave. The return wave is displaced from the main wave in time and in position. A time displacement exists between the two current waves and their corresponding voltage waves. This time displacement may be a lag of the current behind the voltage, or a lead, depending on the circuit constants. In the periodic impulse currents, the displacement between main wave and return wave is represented by a position angle, and the two current waves are in quadrature in position, to their respective voltage waves. A few special cases are discussed."
"H. W. Fisher and R. W. Atkinson: I believe the company with which the writers are associated was one of the first in this country to make extensive experiments relative to dielectric losses in cables and insulating materials."
"Dwight F. Henderson: I think this paper has opened up a subject that will in the future be given a great deal of attention and study. The manufacturers spend a great deal of time in study and investigation and money in building efficient ovens, and then little attention is given to the operation of these ovens, ranges and other devices after they have been installed in the households. Our company in Spokane has been very active lately in pushing the sale of electric ranges and kindred devices. The greatest difficulty that our commercial men have found is in convincing the prospective users of this apparatus that the cost of operation is not going to be excessive. If this apparatus is used intelligently the cost in most cases is not excessive. We find that it closely approximates the cost of gas for a small family. I do not know how that would apply to a large family. I find, too, that the cost of heating water is the one great drawback with the electric ranges, if it is not done in some systematic manner. We have arranged a scheme for putting on a flat-rate water heater which has solved the problem as far as we are concerned, very nicely. We have developed a double snap switch interlocked so that when the range is turned on the water heater is off, and when the range is not in use the water heater is on. That gives an eighteen- or twenty-hour use of the water heater and will give continuous hot water when connected to the ordinary water tank."
"George A. Campbell: This paper is of great value to us, and we shall adopt the method of measurement which Mr. Fortescue has developed with results which are, from both the theoretical and the commercial standpoint, so eminently satisfactory. The method belongs in the category of null conjugate branch methods, together with the Wheatstone bridge and the induction balance, which are well known to be the most accurate of all methods, as neither deflections nor test current magnitudes are involved. Without constructing any special apparatus, we have recently been trying the method for measurements of mutual impedance, the circuit being similar to Fig. 12 of the paper, but with the non-inductive resistance R included as in Fig. 1 of the paper, and with a telephone substituted for the synchronous contactor. At telephonic frequencies, accurate measurements are easily and quickly made. In the development of permanent apparatus for the method, it will presumably be advantageous to adopt the circuit idea of Fig. 13, as well as the toroidal type of coil which Mr. Fortescue has shown to be so well adapted for accurate commercial work."
"W. H. Pratt: The author points out that there are two sets of eddy currents or fields to be considered and then proceeds to ignore one of these. In any complete discussion of the meter, it would be quite necessary to consider both of these effects; and since the lag angles of the resultant eddy currents are not necessarily the same, it is quite possible so to proportion the effect that compensation by special lagging devices is not even necessary. This has been done, I believe, in some cases, and certainly has been done in experimental meters."
"Discussion at San Francisco A. H. Babcock: The paper is an argument for class rates in charging for electric service, e.g., one set of class rates to apply to an entire power distribution system, regardless of local or competitive or geographical considerations; the rates in the different classes to be determined by, first, demand charges — that is, interest, maintenance, depreciation, operation and management; and, second, energy charges, which shall include only those items that are proportional to the kw-hr. output of the plant. The paper makes no attempt to determine the rates for the different classes, but merely is an argument in favor of class rates. In support of these arguments the author cites the different conditions under which passenger and freight rates are determined by a railroad company, and states that because of the great natural difference in the service rendered there is no confusion on the part of the public with reference to the justice or the equity in the differences found between those two generic classes of rates."
"William McClellan: I am interested in the theory of the maximum demand meter, and I hope Mr. Lincoln will pursue it, so that we can get a good type of maximum demand meter. It is needed, but the inference that it is universally needed is not in my opinion true. It is my firm belief that rates and rate-making is about ninety-five per cent commercial and about five per cent engineering. We have got to have a certain amount of general information along engineering lines to understand what a true rate should be, but our commercial men, who familiarize themselves with fundamental facts, are the men best qualified to make rates."
"To Be Held Simultaneously by Means of Long-Distance Telephone Service, in San Francisco, Chicago, Atlanta, Philadelphia, New York and Boston. A national meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, to commemorate the achievements of its members in the fields of communication, transportation, lighting and power, will be held jointly in the above-mentioned cities by long-distance telephone service. All of the auditoriums in which the meetings are held will be connected by telephone circuits, and every seat in each hall will be provided with a telephone receiver so that everyone in attendance will be able to hear the proceedings in each of the participating gatherings in other cities in turn."
"The plans of the Convention Committee in preparation for the Annual Convention of the Institute, to be held at the Hollenden Hotel in Cleveland, are now nearing completion. The personnel of the various sub-committees of the Convention Committee mentioned in the Proceedings for April, is as follows:"
"The committee on industrial preparedness of the Naval Consulting Board of the United States has announced the names of those engineers and chemists who have agreed to serve as state directors of the organization for industrial preparedness. The state directors will also be associate members of the Naval Consulting Board."
"The following figures show the number of applications for admission to the Institute received from the beginning of the fiscal year, May 1, 1915, to April 26, 1916, inclusive:"
"The 320th meeting of the A. I. E. E. was held on the fifth floor of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, Friday, April 14, 1916. The meeting was called to order at 8:20 p.m. by President Carty, who stated that owing to the unavoidable absence of Mr. Clarence Renshaw, who was in the South, his paper on “High-Voltage D-C. Railway Practise” would be read by Mr. N. W. Storer. The paper was then presented by Mr. Storer, who also showed a number of lantern slides illustrating the 5000-volt direct-current equipment described in Mr. Renshaw's paper. The paper called forth considerable discussion, which was participated in by Messrs. F. J. Sprague, W. J. Davis, Jr., W. B. Potter, Calvert Townley, S. I. Oesterreicher, B. F. Wood, E. V. Pannell, A. H. Armstrong, N. W. Storer, Carl Schwartz, and Selby Haar."
"The Board of Directors held its regular monthly meeting in New York on Friday, April 14, 1916, at 3:30 p.m. There were present: President John J. Carty, New York; Past-Presidents C. O. Mailloux, New York, and P. M. Lincoln, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Vice-Presidents N. W. Storer, Pittsburgh, Pa., Farley Osgood, Newark, N. J., C. A. Adams, Cambridge, Mass., J. Franklin Stevens, Philadelphia, Pa., William McClellan, New York; Managers H. A. Lardner, San Francisco, Cal., P. Junkersfeld, Chicago, Ill., L. T. Robinson, Schenectady, N. Y., Frederick Bedell, Ithaca, N. Y., A. S. McAllister, New York, C. E. Skinner, Pittsburgh, Pa., John B. Taylor, Schenectady, N. Y., Harold Pender, Philadelphia, Pa.; Treasurer George A. Hamilton, Elizabeth, N. J., and Secretary F. L. Hutchinson, New York."
"Atlanta. — March 29, 1916, Chamber of Commerce Assembly Hall. Address by Mr. H. E. Bussey on “The Panama Canal.” The address was illustrated by motion pictures and lantern slides. Invitations to this meeting were extended to the Affiliated Technical Societies of Atlanta. Attendance 348."
"Mr. Sydney O. Swenson has become a member of the Engineering Offices of Putnam A. Bates."
"Dr. Eric Gerard, of Liège, Belgium, one of the best-known professors of electrical engineering in the world, and president of the Belgian National Committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission, died in Paris on March 27, 1916. Dr. Gerard was in Petrograd when the war broke out, and since then had lived in London and Paris. Eric Gerard was born in Liège September 22, 1856, and was graduated from the School of Mines in that city in 1878. Entering the Belgium Telegraph Department, he was sent to Paris for further study. He returned to Liège as secretary of the Belgian section of the exposition in 1881, and in the same year was appointed secretary of the International Congress on Electrical Units. He succeeded Professor De Large in the chair of telegraphy and other applications of electricity in the School of Mines at Liège, and when Senator Montefiore founded, in 1883, the Institut Electrotechnique Montfiore in Liège, Dr. Gerard was chosen as its director, and occupied that post up to the time of his death. He organized its laboratories and devised many electrical instruments and methods of measurement, and was the very first teacher of electrical engineering in the world, as this was the first educational institution to give courses in electrotechnics. Dr. Gerard later became a member of the faculty of the University of Liège, and was also inspector-general of telegraphs for Belgium. He was the Belgian representative to the Electrical Congress in Chicago in 1893 in connection with the exposition, and on his subsequent tour of this country made many friends among American engineers and scientists. He was also a delegate at Paris in 1900. Dr. Gerard was one of the founders of the International Electrotechnical Commission. He was a prolific writer on technical subjects, which he handled with especial clearness and literary skill."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on April 6, 1916, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested."
"The electrochemical industries have grown to be of great value to this country; they have a fundamental interest in the development of cheap power; they offer nearly ideal power loads of magnitude; they must be located strategically as regards supplies and markets; Niagara power is not cheap enough nor is it sufficient in its present state of development to afford growth to these industries; the industries have so far been hardly strong enough to develop large powers themselves; great expansion should follow the development of cheaper power in accessible locations; and the country is vitally interested in the development of the nitrate industry, which must have very cheap power in great quantity in order to exist. In view of all these considerations, a liberal water power policy on the part of the government would seem to be a step in the right direction."
"The great increase in population of the United States has been chiefly in urban districts while the increase in population in rural districts has been comparatively small. This results in a continuously growing demand for food with a relatively small proportion of our population as food producers. The production of some of our most highly nitrogenous food products has been steadily declining and American farmers have been producing less per acre than European farmers. The food supply depends in the last analysis upon the plant food supply. The production of nitrogen, which is one of the three principal fertilizer ingredients, is distinctly a water power proposition involving the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen. More than 80 per cent of mixed fertilizers produced in the United States is used east of the Allegheny Mountains, and for the fertilizer problem the water power must be developed in those parts of the country where the demand for intensive agriculture exists. A feasible and proper plan for water power development in this country will have a profound influence on the development and distribution of cheap fertilizer ingredients which are so necessary under modern intensive conditions in the growth of population and its relation to agriculture."
"The United States has no adequate domestic source of fixed nitrogen. Nitric acid is an absolute necessity in the manufacture of any form of explosive as well as in the production of dye stuffs. Ammonia or nitrate compounds are in increasing demand as fertilizers. The present dependence upon Chile is a menace in case of war and involves the payment of export duties and profits amounting to nearly $5,000,000 annually in times of peace. Home production is wholly a question of initiative and proper utilization of water power. Failure to establish the industry in the past has been due to economic conditions, such as the relative proximity of Chile and the impossibility of competing with the cheap water powers of Scandanavia as well as the lack of a near-by agricultural demand. The growing need for fertilizers, the desirability of establishing a dye-stuff industry and especially the feeling of uncertainty in international relations make a reconsideration desirable. National safety demands the development of a nitrogen fixation industry whether it be self-supporting or not. But the industry once established the products would be of the greatest value in times of peace and many other industries would be stimulated thereby. Thorough industrial organization is the best preparedness for either peace or war. Each of the processes under consideration have advantages. The problem is many sided and far reaching and hence it is very desirable that the various government departments concerned, those of the Army, Navy, Agriculture, and Interior, with their skilled staffs and expert knowledge should cooperate in determining the course to be taken. Immediate action is very important since at least two years will be consumed in getting any process available into operation, after a decision is reached."
"The paper discusses the relative importance of water power in its relation to transportation, as depending upon its cost and the cost of competing steam power. Proportion which “Cost of Fuel for Locomotives” in the country as a whole, in various sections, and in the case of a number of different railroads, bears to “Total Cost of Operation.” Effect of recent progress in art of producing electric power by steam upon water power values. Power and transportation development on navigable streams. Illustrations of the limit of investment in developing a water power, as fixed by cost of competing steam power. Comparative cost of canals and railroads. Illustrations of comparative speed and power consumption in railroad and canal operation."
"The endeavor of this paper is to present, from the point of view of the engineer, certain aspects of the attitude of capital towards water powers. Actual and threatened laws, popular prejudices, and some cases of unprofitable developments in the past, have retarded the development of water powers, but there are also physical and natural difficulties which handicap hydroelectric as compared with steam-electric plants, and make it essential that a reasonable profit in promotion be offered, in order to induce investment. The cost of water power is rising, on account of the increasing cost of labor and materials and increasing taxation, and the efficiency of the utilization of water power has practically reached its maximum. On the other hand, the cost of steam-electric power is falling, in spite of a steady rise in the cost of coal, because continual improvements are being made in the efficiency of conversion of heat energy into mechanical power, and still further progress is to be looked for. To offset this disadvantage there is the possibility of utilizing large amounts of secondary power from hydroelectric plants for industries and process purposes that do not necessarily require continuous power. The hydroelectric plant usually requires about three times the capital investment needed for a steam-electric plant of equal capacity, and the activity of capital in a hydroelectric plant is very low, much lower than in a steam station and in almost all other branches of industry. State regulatory bodies have hampered water powers by not recognizing the distinction between bond interest as a compulsory expense paid as the rent for money loaned, and dividends as an earned reward for the risk of the business and skill in management. Another factor that must be more clearly determined in order that the hampering effect of uncertainty may be removed, is the length of time a permit or franchise may run before recapture clauses can take effect, and the question whether these provisions should not cover the power development in its entirety. Water power should be developed as a matter of conservation, to save our coal supply that is being so steadily depleted. This purpose cannot be served unless the attitude toward water power development is changed and some of the present restrictive factors ameliorated so that investors in water power bonds will be satisfied with five per cent interest instead of requiring seven per cent because of the risks they incur at present."
"The primary object of the paper is to present a list of topics in electrical engineering suitable for thesis, research, and advanced study. A plea is made for systematic research, each college specializing year after year in only a few topics for advanced investigation. The author suggests that the Educational Committee of the Institute become a central place for information and a stimulus in applied electrical research, cooperating with engineering colleges and with individual inventors and investigators. Various types of investigations are enumerated, such as invention, experimental study, theoretical study, library search, and compilation of data. Some advice is given the young investigator as to how to proceed in the most efficient way and to avoid a disappointment."
"V. S. Foster: The author mentions the fact that formula (10), for determining the correct size of wire, usually yields a result which does not exactly coincide with any of the commercial sizes, and recommends that in such a case the next larger size be used."
"H. B. Dwight (by letter): In the discussion of the measurement of the skin effect resistance ratio of copper strips, spaced at 60 cm., it is stated that the large discrepancies between the theory for infinite strips, and the observations made, are believed to be due to power being dissipated by eddy currents. All distortions of current connected with skin effect may be called eddy currents, but where the conductors are far apart and carry sine wave currents, the distortions of current are regular, and this case of skin effect obeys very similar laws to those governing round conductors. In the case under discussion, formula (103) of the paper is used, which takes into account only the crowding of current, due to skin effect, toward the flat surface of the copper strips. A more important action is the crowding of current toward the edges of the strip, and this accounts for practically all of the skin effect observed at 60 cm. spacing."
"E. B. Merriam (by letter): Mr. Collis has given us some very interesting data concerning arcs as influenced by the shape of contacts in oil circuit breakers. It will be observed, however, that his results were obtained with comparatively small currents and moderate operating pressures, i.e., 200 to 300 amperes at 6600 volts. Consequently, the arcs produced were comparable in magnitude with the contacts used and a very decided mutual influence should be expected."
"L. W. Webb: This wire (samples of copper-clad wire were exhibited) has been used on radio antenna on shipboard, and has proved entirely unsatisfactory for this use. It lasts from three months to a year maximum, and often not as long as three months. When once installed and not taken down it lasts the maximum length of time; but if disturbed after being installed the individual strands are found to be broken throughout the entire length, and the least twist or kink breaks the completed wire entirely. Where installed close to the smokestacks on vessels the escaping gases cause rapid deterioration, and cases have been noted where the wire lasted only about two or three weeks."
"A. S. Loizeaux: The Consolidated Gas, Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore began taking power from the Pennsylvania Water and Power Company on October 1st, 1910, the contract calling for delivery of not less than 70 million kw-hr. during the first year, with the demand of 13,333 kw. That figure is obtained by taking two-thirds of the peak load on the station, which was 20 thousand at that time. The contract provided for an increase of energy in following years, but not to exceed 105 million kw-hr. per year. A demonstration of the effect which Mr. Walls notes, that the development of water power exceeded the original contract provisions, is found in the fact that the consumption of the gas and electric company for 1915 will be about 165 million kw-hr., a quantity 57 per cent greater than the maximum originally provided for."
"A. J. Porskievies: I ask Mr. Adsit to tell us what type of rotor the generator has, and also whether there is any reactance protection from short circuit, and whether the generators are operated with the grounded neutral; and finally whether the efficiency of 95½ per cent on the generator includes friction."
"Thomas Spooner: The Burrows permeability apparatus we have used in our commercial testing for some years, and found it very satisfactory, especially when used in connection with the Grassot flux-meter. The apparatus has given us very accurate checks for the Bureau of Standards certified rods. We, of course, have not had occasion to test samples of permeability of 60,000 to 70,000, but for commercial material we feel sure that the apparatus is extremely accurate."
"Bassett Jones: It seems to me that Mr. Knight makes many statements as though they were indisputable facts, that are really subjects requiring careful determination in each case of control application. My experience with controllers has led me to the conclusion that the question of copper vs. graphite contacts is of this nature. The answer, it seems to me will depend upon the mode of operation of the motor control and the character of its service. Nor do I believe that it is always essential that a multiplicity of separately operated contactors be employed. There are other statements in the paper which are open to the same form of question."
"Charles P. Steinmetz: “Outline of Theory of Impulse Currents” is a continuation of the paper on the general equation of the electric circuit, read eight years ago. In the previous paper it was found that the general differential equation, which applies to every electric circuit or section of circuit having constant values of r, L, g, and C, can be integrated by an expression consisting of four terms, two main waves and their two return waves. One of the waves dies out at a greater, the other at a slower rate than corresponds to the energy dissipation in the circuit, and therefore the former transfers energy to the latter, thus representing the energy transfer along the circuit, as occurring in traveling waves, a-c. transmission etc. These two waves coincide, and the energy transfer coefficient becomes zero, in the stationary oscillation of a uniform circuit; they do not coincide, however, in the stationary oscillation of a compound circuit, but energy transfer occurs from sections of lower energy dissipation, to sections of higher energy dissipation."
"Philander Betts: I think of all those who are opposed to municipal ownership, those that know most about it are the engineers and operators, etc., of utilities. Among those who favor municipal ownership and operation, I think we will find only a small number of engineers. The others are economists, publicists, politicians, most of whom are honest, but the list includes demagogues and others whose arguments are based on personal benefit."
"A. H. Armstrong: The induction motor has one inherent characteristic, constant speed at all loads, that makes it of doubtful application to the haulage of trains over a broken profile. The speed of the motor can be varied only slightly except by changing its number of poles, a matter of doubtful expediency in its practical application to the operation of a train. We have been educated in steam railroading to expect the flexible speed characteristic of the steam engine, that is, slow running on ruling grade and proportional higher speed on the lesser grades and level track. Railroad practise therefore is more or less crystalized about the flexible speed operation of the motive power, and in adapting the induction motor to train haulage we are going against all previous ideas, and the continued operation of the Norfolk & Western Railroad will be watched with considerable interest as throwing light upon the adaptability of the induction motor to main line service."
"C. D. Knight: The ordinary industrial liquid rheostat, Fig. 1, used considerably for mine hoisting work, consists of a large tank with a chamber at the top containing the electrodes and movable weir controlled through a system of levers by the hoist operator. The position of this weir determines the level of the water."
"S. T. Dodd: It occurs to me that chattering wheel slip is exactly the same phenomenon which has been reported on a good many European side-rod locomotives. Of course, the European designers have had more experience than we have had in designing various types of side-rod locomotives, and there have been reported in the foreign technical press several failures of this type of locomotive. I have in mind principally a couple of reports in German papers in regard to the Loetchberg locomotives. These locomotives, as you will remember, have characteristics which would increase the possibility of such a thing occurring. They have two very large motors of about 1300 h.p. each, geared to jack shafts the jack shafts tied together by Scotch yokes, which in turn are connected to the driving axles by side rods. In the papers I have in mind, they describe the disturbance in these locomotives, as a “shuddering” motion occurring at speeds of 20 to 25 miles an hour. This is so intense as to break the cranks and the Scotch yokes, sometimes by tearing them apart by tension, and sometimes crushing them by compression. The papers I have made reference to discuss mathematically the motions and the stresses which occur in such a frame work as that, showing that these forces are proably due to the building up of mechanical resonance between the springing of the driving rod on one side, and the inertia of the very heavy armatures on the other."
"W. H. Pratt: The author has made a very large amount of painstaking effort in collecting and analyzing the behavior of the meters with these miscellaneous connections. There is one point that is emphasized throughout the paper, that this checking must be made under balanced load conditions except in one particular case. There should be a great deal of care exercised in deciding whether you have a balanced condition in applying the check. The fact that you use a motor which tends to take a balanced load does not necessarily mean that the load will be balanced unless the voltages are strictly balanced. A very small unbalancing of voltage may mean a very large amount of unbalancing in the power station. This point emphasizes the fact that you should always be very particular in following the diagrams of connections. It is a very easy matter to systematically arrange most work so that you can follow the diagrams just as if you had a column of figures to add, and then very carefully do the work. There is a temptation, however, to rely on the check, but a check should be made bearing in mind that you have limitations which might seriously affect the conclusions."
"A. S. McAllister: Mr. Creedy mentions several types of motors according to his classification, (A), (B), (C) and (D). Under (A) he includes balanced polyphase machines and under (B) he includes elliptical field machines, such as single-phase and unbalanced polyphase apparatus. He states that the elliptical field machines must necessarily have a commutator. Therefore, in the elliptical field machines he does not include the single-phase induction motor without a commutator."
"The 325th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Philadelphia, October 13, 1916. Since the previous announcement of this meeting it has been decided to change the place of meeting, which will be at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel at Broad and Walnut Streets. The registration bureau and Institute headquarters will be in the Clover Room of this hotel. The meeting will be under the auspices of the Philadelphia Section and the Power Stations Committee of the A. I. E. E. There will be an afternoon session at 2 o'clock, an informal dinner at 6 o'clock, and an evening session at 8 o'clock. The program in detail is as follows:"
"The Pacific Coast Convention held in Seattle, Wash., September 5–9, 1916, proved a pleasant and profitable meeting for all who attended. The total registration numbered 182 including 29 ladies."
"Arrangements have just been completed in New York whereby the resources of The Engineering Foundation under the auspices of the four principal American National Engineering Societies are placed at the disposal of the National Research Council, which was appointed by the National Academy of Science at the request of President Wilson. The object of the Council is to coordinate the scientific research work of the country in order to secure efficiency in the solution of the problems of war and peace. The Council was without funds until The Engineering Foundation, established to further scientific and engineering research, offered to place its resources at the Council's disposal, including the services of its secretary, Dr. Cary T. Hutchinson, to act as secretary of the Council. The offer was gladly accepted and plans for immediate activities are in the hands of an executive committee which has been meeting in New York last week."
"The following letter recently written by Thomas A. Edison, Chairman of the Naval Consulting Board, gives a comprehensive statement of the work accomplished by the Industrial Preparedness Committee which, as announced in the March 1916 Proceedings, was appointed at the invitation of the President of the United States to assist the Naval Consulting Board in collecting data for use in organizing the manufacturing resources of the country for the public service in case of emergency. The names of A. I. E. E. representatives on this committee were published in the May, 1916 Proceedings."
"On July 1st the new law providing for the National Reserve Corps of Engineers became effective. A general outline of this legislation was published in the March 1916 Proceedings as reported by the Joint Committee of five national engineering societies which had been appointed to assist the War Department in the formation of the National Engineer Reserve. The War Department has recently completed details of requirements and qualifications for commissions in the officers reserve corps of the army, which are embodied in a circular issued by the Joint Committee of the engineering societies and which has been mailed to every member of the A. I. E. E., and the other participating societies."
"Mr. Clifford W. Bates, who has been instructor in electrical engineering in the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale University, has resigned in order to accept a position in the instrument and installation department of the Philadelphia Electric Company."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Unless otherwise indicated the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before October 31, 1916."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"It is not strange that many years ago Huxley, with his remarkable precision of thought and his admirable command of language, should have indicated his dissatisfaction with the terms “pure science” and “applied science”, pointing out at the same time that what people call “applied science” is nothing but the application of pure science to particular classes of problems. The terms are still employed, possibly because, after all, they may be the best ones to use, or perhaps our ideas, to which these expressions are supposed to conform, have not yet become sufficiently definite to have called forth the right words."
"American central stations, contrary to European practise, have extensively adopted single-phase distribution from polyphase stations, balancing the loads among the different phases by grouping of the single-phase feeders or the distributing substations. Voltage regulation for lighting circuits has been supplemented by individual regulators. Generators with good single-phase characteristics were sometimes employed. In other cases generators were installed of larger kilovolt-ampere rating than the kilowatt capacity of the steam unit. Large customers, using electric welding machines, electric furnaces, etc., assist the balancing by dividing their load between the two or three phases. In cases of railroad companies' generating stations, the single-phase power is furnished from three-phase generators of special design. In cases of purchased power from central stations, different methods of supply may be available. In connection with the supply of service to the Western portion of the New Haven Railroad electrification by the New York lighting companies, four methods were considered contemplating the supply of power — (1) directly from the 25-cycle system busbars; (2) from a separate section of the 25-cycle system busbars; (3) from a 60-cycle station with frequency changers at the delivery point; (4) from special 25-cycle generators installed in the latter station. On account of the requirement of parallel operation with the railroad power plant, the first method would not give the necessary load control. The second method was dismissed on account of the requirements of balancers and also longer transmission lines than the other methods. The third plan necessitated a large investment in special apparatus and gave poor efficiency of conversion. The fourth method was adopted as it gave complete control of the load and voltage, and maximum efficiency of transmission. The larger original investment in new generator capacity was partly compensated for by its value to the companies as a standard equipment for supplying their future demands and other three-phase existing loads in the immediate districts. The equipment is described."
"The purpose of the paper is to outline several methods by which single-phase power may be supplied from a polyphase system and to discuss their advantages and disadvantages. The unbalance in voltage when single-phase power is supplied direct from a polyphase circuit is explained. The law of distribution of load in the polyphase system is deduced, and the limitations of this method of supplying single-phase power is discussed. Single-phase generation is one solution of the problem, motor or steam drive may be used depending on the size of unit required. An outline of the theory of the single-phase generator is given from different points of view. The essential requirements for phase balancing are deduced from which an outline of the theory of phase balancing is developed. Attention is called to the requirements of the control apparatus. The behavior of the balancer under short circuit is given consideration. The merits of single-phase generation and phase balancing in the case of a single-phase load from one phase are discussed, with the conclusion that there is little difference in cost between the two schemes and there is much to be said in favor of single-phase generation for such a case."
"The general tendency of the electric power supply industry is toward the centralization of power stations, embracing a variety of loads. In order to be consistent with this development ft is highly desirbale that power stations be standardized in essential features, so that they may combine their resources toward the ideal arrangement. The production of single-phase power should not interfere with this general scheme. Looked at from this standpoint, single-phase power can best be produced from polyphase systems. Means are suggested for producing single-phase power without interfering with the broad usefulness of the power station. The mode of operation and theory of phase converters is discussed with particular reference to its adaptability for permitting single-phase power to be derived from polyphase circuits."
"The position taken by the power company is that it should be able to supply all needs of power in the community whether for industrial, street railway or trunk railroad use. The power company must also be able to supply power of uniform pressure whether single-phase, two-phase or three-phase, at whatever voltage best suits the consumer. These conditions are best met by polyphase generating units, and three-phase units are almost universally adopted on account of the economy in transmission which they permit. When the demand for single-phase current is heavy enough to produce an unbalance, some means of balancing must be provided in order to prevent reduction in the output of the generator, and also to maintain uniform voltage on all phases. Three methods of balancing are discussed; first, by equipping the generator field with damping devices; second, by the use of a separate machine similar to the three-phase induction motor; third, by means of a synchronous phase balancer consisting of a two-unit machine, one of which transfers energy between phases and the other balances the voltage. Correction for power factor on each individual consumer's line is suggested."
"F. W. Peek, Jr.: I would like to say a word of warning on the danger of misinterpreting data, especially in regard to insulator testing. I have noticed that there is a great tendency to do this. For instance: The conclusion that a certain specified test is better than another test, and selects the good insulators from the bad, because a greater percentage of insulators are destroyed by that test, may be erroneous. It is, perhaps, best to take a practical example by way of illustration."
"K. A. Pauly: There are several points in connection with this paper by Messrs. Sykes and Hall to which I wish to refer in discussion. One of the first points which is worthy of attention is that of the rating given these motors: namely, a horse power corresponding to the maximum torque which they will carry without any mention of the time during which they will carry the load. All will agree that a rating on this basis is not only contrary to the recommendations of the A. I. E. E., but is very unsafe for the purchaser on which to base the relative capacities of competitive equipments for any class of service. That the idea of so rating these motors is a new one will become apparent to any one examining the publications of the company with which the authors are connected. The early publications showed, for example, 3000 h.p. as the capacity for the motors of the Steel Company of Canada now rated at 10,000 h.p. On this same basis, any one of the 6000 h.p. motors at the Gary Works of the Illinois Steel Company might be rated at 20,000 h.p."
"F. Woodbury: About five or six years ago I was associated in the pioneer work near Los Angeles where some of these oil well motors were developed. We had considerable trouble owing to the prejudice of the operators against the apparatus, as mentioned by Mr. Taylor. They endeavored to discredit the motors by running full speed and reversing as fast as they could, doing everything possible to burn them out. However, in this they were not very successful, and we finally succeeded in successfully installing several motors."
"R. W. Sorensen: Mr. Montsinger in presenting this most excellent treatise has placed before us a second set of data∗ for the purpose of enabling our Standards Committee to construct an accurate ruling, whereby the effect of altitude upon the heating of electrical apparatus may be determined."
"John B. Whitehead: We have again to acknowledge our debt to Mr. Peek for a most valuable contribution to our knowledge of the electric strength of air, and now also that of liquid and solid insulation. Referring to Mr. Peek's observations on the comparison of alternating and continuous voltage at which corona appears, I have recently been conducting, in conjunction with Mr. W. S. Brown, a series of similar experiments. The results of these experiments show some variation from those obtained by Mr. Peek."
"Harold S. Osborne: In considering any circuit which uses the ground as part of the electric circuit, we are forced to take account of a factor which in the present state of the art is to a considerable extent unknown, that is the property of the ground itself. The ground is not a perfect conductor, and in a great many instances in which the ground is used as a part of the circuit, the effect of the resistance of the ground is very considerable."
"J. B. Whitehead: There is truth in what Prof. Karapetoff has to say about the products of research from Germany and England. I do not know that it is quite as definite as he would imply, but I have in mind the character and form of the publication of the results of research as given in the German and English periodicals; and the publications of the German and English engineering societies, I think are superior to those of our own. I would make a plea here for a more careful editing of the publications of our American research. Certainly a comparison, particularly of the German publications, with our own will, I think, indicate that there is truth in what I say, namely, that these publications are better prepared. The precautions that are taken in experimental work are better described, and more effort is made, and I suppose more careful editing accompanies the publication of the results of experiments abroad."
"A. A. Nims: (communicated after adjournment): There is one factor of tractive resistance which has not been separated and listed in this paper. Its value may be of small significance and perhaps may not affect the accuracy of the results to any great extent, but its existence should be recognized at least, if for no other present reason than technical accuracy."
"Alexander Gray: Every September, before I meet my classes, I have to review the subject of complex quantities as applied to the solution of the problems in electrical engineering because, during the rest of the year, I never have occasion to use this method in my own work."
"The 326th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, Friday, November 10, 1916, at 8:15 p. m."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at the Union League Club, Philadelphia, on Friday, October 13, 1916, at 10:30 a. m."
"In view of the general interest in submarines at this time, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers has organized a joint section meeting to visit the plant of the Electric Boat Company at New London, Conn., on Saturday afternoon, November 11. Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers as well as a number of other engineering societies, clubs, and technical schools have been cordially invited to participate in this meeting. Some of the largest and best Diesel engines produced in this country have been built in this plant, and there will be a special test of a high power 8-cylinder, 4-cycle engine. A large number of submarine and other engines in various stages of construction will be seen, also the boring of torpedo tubes, cylinders and other equipment for submarines. The drafting rooms and foundry will also be open for inspection. The visitors will have an opportunity to witness a special exhibition by several submarines. The Submarine Base and Training School is located near New London."
"Denver. — September 28, 1916, Denver Athletic Club. Meeting in honor of Honorary Secretary Ralph W. Pope. Luncheon served at 12:15 p. m., after which Mr. Pope gave an address on “The History of Section Development.” Attendance 21."
"The Bureau of Standards has recently issued Circular No. 60 entitled “Electric Units and Standards.” This circular gives comprehensive information in regard to units and standards in terms of which electric and magnetic measurements are made. It gives a history of the units and definition upon which the laws of electrical standards are based. It also gives conversion factors by means of which measurements may be expressed in any desired units."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"In order that our inventories and appraisals shall be useful in determining all of the appropriate elements of value, they must be classified as to age, condition, use, and extent of use in each class of service."
"Due to enactment of laws in various states requiring approval of State Commissions before issue of securities, and due to other conditions, there has arisen a demand for a continuous inventory of property owned by utility companies. First section of this paper discusses the advisability of attempting such an inventory, giving possible uses and advantages to be derived therefrom, and the second section discusses the preparation of such an inventory, suggests the division of the property into four general groups for the purpose, and outlines general forms and methods for collecting and recording data required."
"It is generally assumed that a complex utility property will depreciate to an approximately fixed per cent condition. This is shown by theoretical and actual curves to be incorrect. It is shown that the manner of the company's growth affects its per cent condition. The necessity for reserves, the manner in which they may be kept and the return which should be allowed on them, whether reinvested or not, is discussed. Several Commission and Court decisions are quoted to show the tendency to disallow a return on a reserve and arguments are presented in refutation of the decisions. The principal points are as follows: 1. The condition of a property is dependent not only on maintenance but also on its growth. 2. Property does not settle down to a fixed per cent condition. 3. Capital is kept intact by reinvesting reserve in extensions. Under this condition, depreciated value of the entire property is the fair one for rate making purposes. 4. For a company unable to use reserve in extensions a liquid depreciation fund will be necessary. 5. The same return, available for dividends, should be allowed on a reserve as on the remainder of the property."
"The paper deals with certain fundamental principles governing heat distribution and temperature in electrical apparatus. The general problems of heat generation, heat flow and heat dissipation, upon which the resultant temperatures depend, are discussed at some length. The various paths of heat flow and the effects of the heat resistance of such paths are discussed. The effects of rapid heat flow on the equalization of the temperatures, and on their measurement, are considered briefly. Some of the fallacies in temperature guarantees and in temperature indications are pointed out. Some of the more common errors in the methods of measurement are described. In conclusion it is stated that no hard and fast rules can be made to cover the facts, except in a very general way, and that commercial temperature measurements should be considered as approximate, this being permissible because there is no sharply defined line between good and bad."
"The paper is an argument for the standardization of temperature guarantees when the guarantee is based on internal temperatures as measured by thermo-couples. It is recommended that in all cases the maximum safe operating temperature of the insulation be used as the temperature guarantee, instead of using a lower temperature. The standardized guarantee, 50-deg. rise by thermometer, is cited in comparison with the present wide range of temperature rises, from 60 deg. to 100 deg., that have been called for in specifications when the thermo-couple method of measurement is used. Arguments are presented from the stand-point of both the designing and the operating engineer for the use of this standardized temperature rise. Curves are shown illustrating the temperature conditions in both stator and rotor of a typical large, high-voltage turbo-generator. Examples, based on these curves, are given to show that a low temperature rise guarantee for the stator does not necessarily result in margin for overloads. This margin for overloads is the main argument that can be advanced in favor of low temperature rises. The only way in which the purchaser can be certain of overload margin is to have the specifications call for the maximum rating desired, in which case the maximum safe operating temperature may logically be made the temperature guarantee."
"L. W. Chubb: Dr. Whitehead's paper brings before us a new standard voltmeter which I think, if all the irregularities can be taken out of it, should displace the sphere gap as the primary standard. There is some doubt as to the practicability of the scheme for a working or secondary standard."
"The fourth midwinter convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, February 8–9, 1916."
"The activities of the Institute are manifold and cover all branches of electrical engineering, which are represented by committees composed of the leading engineers in their respective departments."
"The Library Board of the United Engineering Society has published its annual report for 1915, the first year during which the library of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers has been administered jointly with the libraries of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the United Engineering Society, under the agreement which provided that “The four libraries of the said societies shall be controlled and administered as one joint library by the Library Board of the United Engineering Society in accordance with the by-laws of that society.” This agreement, after being ratified by the governing bodies of the founder societies, took effect as of January 1, 1915."
"As announced in the December, 1915, Proceedings, the Second Pan-American Scientific Congress was held in Washington, D. C., December 27, 1915, to January 8, 1916, and was attended by delegates from the nations of North and South America. The first Pan-American Scientific Congress was held in Santiago, Chile, December 25, 1908, to January 5, 1909."
"The Board of Directors of the Institute held its regular monthly meeting in New York on Friday, January 14, at 3:30 p. m."
"Baltimore. — January 14, 1916, Electrical Engineering Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University. Paper: “Electron Emission from Heated Metals in Its Relation to Electrical Engineering,” by Saul Dushman. Paper illustrated by lantern slides and experimental demonstrations. Attendance 60."
"Mr. A. F. Hovey has been made manager of the construction department of the Standard Underground Cable Company, at Pittsburgh, Pa."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on January 6, 1916, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Note: Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) of vacancies, and men available, will be published without charge to members. Copy should be prepared by the member concerned and should reach the Secretary's office prior to the 20th of the month. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"This list includes books on electrical subjects only, which have been added to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"The rapid growth of the science of electricity and the increase in membership and the activities of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, have brought about a situation where the present form of organization and method of procedure fails to meet all of the demands of its members for professional activities in this line. The paper points out the difficulties of the situation, makes a tentative suggestion, and brings up a number of points involved on which discussion is invited in order to assist those who are considering the possibility of somewhat modifying the Institute's organization to meet these new demands."
"The demand for testing dielectric media in terms of crest voltage has resulted in several schemes of measuring high voltage. The paper mentions and compares some of the methods of high-voltage measurement and describes in more detail the crest voltmeter which has been found to be more satisfactory in commercial testing than the spark gaps which have been adopted by the Institute in the Standardization Rules. The construction, operation, accuracy and applications of the crest voltmeter are briefly described. The present Standardization Rules for the measurement of high testing voltages recommend spark gap methods which under certain conditions are impractical, inconvenient, and dangerous. The summary states that the spark gaps should be only a calibrating standard and a more practical instrument, such as described, the preferred working standard. To be presented at the fourth Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, New York, February 8, 1916."
"The paper shows how a voltmeter which will read directly the maximum or crest values obtained in high-voltage testing may be constituted by a combination of an electrostatic voltmeter and an electric valve. Diagrams of connection are shown and results of test given to indicate the validity of the method."
"FOR EXACT determination of the high-tension voltage in testing transformers, an auxiliary winding of few turns placed on the same core and connected to an accurate voltmeter has been used with success."
"This paper describes the great advantages, from an operating standpoint, incident to the inauguration of electric service on the Elkhorn grade of the Norfolk & Western Railway Co. and why it is possible almost to double the capacity of the road by the use of 12 electric locomotives, instead of the 33 Mallet locomotives formerly in service."
"The paper shows that chattering wheel slip is characteristic of all types of electric motive power. The application of the motive power in the electric and steam drives is compared, and the reasons for the chattering wheel slip and the means of measuring and rectifying the same are given."
"This paper describes the liquid rheostat in locomotive service, giving in detail the arrangement of the mechanical parts and means for controlling it."
"The object of this paper is to describe a method of checking the correctness of the connections of a polyphase watt-hour meter on a three-phase circuit; and to show that the methods most commonly used for this purpose are unreliable. Polyphase wattmeters are classified according to the number of their voltage terminals and expressions giving the amount of energy theoretically registered by the meter are derived for all possible arrangements of the connections for each class. The correctness of these expressions was checked experimentally. The expressions are given in the form of tables. A study of these tables reveals the fact that the methods of checking the connections in most common use are unreliable. A method is developed which may be relied upon to check the correctness of the meter connections on a balanced three-phase circuit at any power factor. Rules are worked out from this method, that make the rectification of incorrect connections simple. In addition to this, another method is described which may be used on balanced or unbalanced three-phase circuits atany power factor, provided the opening of one phase at a time is permissible."
"That speech is a rapid variation in intensity of the voice and mouth-tones according to definite sound patterns called letters of the alphabet, is proved, by showing that speech is the result of action of the mouth-parts in varying the intensity of the voice and mouth-tones, and through photographs taken with the string-galvanometer of each letter sound of the alphabet, showing definitely the characteristic variation in intensity of tone for each letter of the alphabet. From the curves, the phonographic alphabet is obtained by measuring the variations in intensity of the main tone of the record. A design for a voice-operated phonographic alphabet writing machine is described. The object of this device is to record speech automatically in ink on paper in the form of an easily read compact system of natural characters called the phonographic alphabet. Its design comprises a high-power telephone transmitter controlling electric resonator circuits, the intensity of currents in which is measured by the vibration of mirrors reflecting light upon a selenium cell connected to a special recording pen."
"A brief account is given of some experiments made to determine the relative accuracy of certain methods used in measuring high voltages. The methods comprise the use of a tertiary (or voltmeter) coil in the high-tension transformer, the direct measurement of voltage by a crest voltage meter and the derivation of the high-tension pressure from the primary voltage. To be presented at the fourth Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, New York, February 8, 1916."
"E. H. Martindale: The point impressed on me with the greatest emphasis was in connection with the use of the soft graphitic brush for high-speed machines and with machines having solid commutators. It is a misnomer. The brush to be used on the solid commutator need not be soft. It must be non-abrasive, but one of the hardest brushes manufactured in this country has no abrasive action and is used very extensively on undercut commutators and on speeds up to 6000 ft. per min. I want to emphasize the distinction between hardness and abrasiveness, and point out the fact that this has no relation to the softness or graphitic nature of the brush."
"A. H. Babcock: Some years ago when a rather large mountain railway electrification was being studied, an attempt was made to lay out two substations so that they could be operated only when the trains might demand the power. At that time automatic operation had not been suggested. The idea was merely to save substation apparatus, in order that the machines might have time to cool down, having planned to overload them very heavily as the trains went by. The automatic control of such substations, considering the machine capacities there involved, is a little startling, particularly when one has been brought up with the old-fashioned machinery that required the very best of attention."
"S. H. Blake: Historically this paper does not go back to the time when the standard navy voltages were based on the use of searchlights at 80 volts. This was somewhere in the period up to 1904, at which time the navy voltage standard was increased to 110–125 volts in order that standard commercial lamps could be used. Since then 240 volts and higher are also employed."
"George R. Murphy: For a number of years the ampere-hour meter has been used with satisfactory results as an automatic means for interrupting the charging circuit of a battery at the end of charge. Allowance for the necessary amount of overcharge has been made either by adjusting the meter to run proportionately slower during charge than during discharge, or in some case by manually setting the pointer of the instrument ahead by some pre-determined amount just before the beginning of charge."
"J. C. Clark: Prof. Harris J. Ryan has recently performed an experiment which, in a qualitative way, strikingly il ustrates the principle of the energy time lag brought out in this recent work of Mr. Peek's. Referring to Fig. 1, H is a large helix carrying 8–10 amperes at a frequency of 90,000 cycles per second. The oscillatory circuit LC is mounted so that its inductance L is coupled inductively with H, and a needle gap G is connected across the circuit LC. C is a moving plate condenser capable of smooth adjustment, so that, by turning it to a proper position, the circuit LC will be tuned to the frequency of H. It is found that when C is turned by hand moderately fast from one end of its range to the other, no discharge whatever will take place at G; but that, by moving C quite slowly through its range, G will discharge at the position of C corresponding to tuning for circuit LC."
"Overhead Charges Philander Betts (by letter): In making up the valuation of public service properties, it is customary in many cases to appraise the property by using unit prices which represent the basic cost to the company doing the work and then after the appraisal is completed on this basis, to make additional allowances to cover such items as engineering, interest during construction, taxes, damages and insurance during construction and such other items as are not ordinarily allowed for in making up the unit cost price."
"Wilfred Sykes: It will be interesting to find out what Mr. Legrand's experience is with the engines after they have been running for some time. From observations made in Europe I got the impression that considerably more attention had to be given to these engines than to other types of prime movers. The class of people used to operate them seem to be much better than is usually found in power houses and undoubtedly they are paid more money for their services. The successful Diesel engines seem to be those with comparatively small cylinders. The engines developing about 200 to 250 h. p. per cylinder run entirely satisfactorily. As the size of the cylinders is increased difficulties in manufacture and operation also increase. As far as my observation goes it is essential for the success of Diesel engines that they should be strongly built, should have good workmanship and not have too much power per cylinder. The attempts that have been made to build light Diesel engines such as are required for submarines have not been very successful. From the standpoint of reliability, a light Diesel engine has not given the service that would be considered satisfactory for land work. They have been used for submarines mainly because nothing better was available. Attempts are being made to get away from this type of prime mover where light weight is essential, and it is probable that in the near future the Diesel engine will be superseded for submarine work by the steam turbine, although the economy of the latter is not as good as that of the Diesel engine. In a number of plants which I investigated it seemed to be the common practise to take out the exhaust valve every week, and the statement was made that although very often there was no apparent reason for doing so, it was found that by following this practise and anticipating any troubles that might occur, more continuous service was obtained."
"Philip Torchio: One of the points which was the subject of much discussion by the Subcommittee on Rating last year was the question of determining in the standardization rules the safe temperature limit of mica insulated windings."
"We, in this body, will undoubtedly spend much time and thought on standards, and it seems to me that a cursory survey of the most important of these standards would be pertinent at this time—especially in their relation to each other, and the allowable departure from the standard; that is in the precision measure of the standard."
"My reference to Cine-machinery is intended to broadly cover all machinery used for the manufacture, assembling and projection of motion pictures, and I shall endeavor to briefly present my conclusions in reference to Standardization of perforations of Motion Picture Film."
"Surprisingly little literature has been written on the subject of condensing lenses, and none at all with regard to their use in motion picture projecting machines. Investigators outside our own art have so far failed to observe that the problem is not the same in a motion picture projecting machine that it is in a stereopticon lantern, a difference resulting from the necessity for the use of a shutter with the motion picture projector."
