"Electrical Engineers: The Signal Corps of the Army is in need of the services of electrical engineers, more particularly of those who have had radio-communication experience of some kind. The work is expected to consist of experimental trials of radio apparatus, in general laboratory work, and in the instruction of personnel in the use of new types of radio equipment."
"The Engineering Council met on October 11th in the rooms of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Engineering Societies Building, New York."
"Milwaukee. — October 3, 1917, Lecture Hall, Public Museum. Illustrated lecture by Mr. C. L. Lucas on “Making of High-Explosive Howitzer Shells.” Attendance 1000."
"Allen, Lewis C., Sales Engineer, Fairbanks Morse & Co.; res., 1005 19th St., Parkersburg, W. Va."
"J. H. Barker for eight years Manager and Sales Manager of the New York office of the Diehl Manufacturing Co. is now representing the Roth Bros. & Company of Chicago and has opened an office at 95 Liberty St., New York."
"Percy L. Cobb, electrical engineer, connected with the Interstate Commerce Commission, Division of Valuation of Railroads, Washington, D. C., died on Oct. 11, 1917. Mr. Cobb was a graduate of Stevens Institute of Technology and had served with both the Pennsylvania and the N. Y. W. & B. R. R. He was an associate in the A. I. E. E."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made. These are taken either from the preface or the text of the book."
"Vacancies The Institute is glad to learn of desirable vacancies from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested."
"The electrodynamic method for obtaining the solution of electrostatic and allied problems is developed to a high degree of accuracy. The method is then applied to the study of high-voltage bushings. An experimental high-air-efficiency bushing was then built and tested with the result that the arc-over was very materially lower than had been anticipated. A study was then made to ascertain the reason for this large discrepancy, which was found to be due to an unexpectedly large surface effect which varied greatly with different materials. After obtaining the numerical value for the surface effect a reasonably accurate predetermination of the arc-over of structures, in which the stress distribution is known, can be made. In order to determine the desirability of using artificial equipotential surfaces to increase the efficiency of the use of the supporting dielectric, diagrams were taken and a small bushing of this type constructed and tested. A study was then made to find out whether the reduction in diameter of condenser bushings is principally due to equalization of potential or due the greater strength of insulation when barriers are used. As a result of this work, it is believed that the barrier effect greatly predominates. A short discussion follows which shows the difficulties of obtaining a sufficiently exact theory of bushing design to enable us to predetermine the most efficient shape for a practical bushing. A series of small bushings were then made and tested with a view to determining the general shape and characteristics which go to make up a practical all around bushing. The appendix gives an unexpurgated solution of the following two flow problems. I. The distribution of the electrostatic field when any two confocal hyperboloids of revolution of one sheet and of the same family are maintained at given potentials. II. The distribution of the electrostatic field when any two confocal hyperboloids of revolution of two sheets and of the same family are maintained at given potentials."
"The interrelation of industrial and “pure science” research and the restrictions which must be imposed to insure mutual existence. A brief outline of the scope and progress of industrial research in the Bell Telephone System."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"At its last meeting, the Board of Directors of the Institute voted to hold a special Institute meeting in New York, June 27–28, 1917, for the presentation and discussion of papers that were to be presented at the Annual Convention."
"The annual meeting of the A. I. E. E. was held at the Institute headquarters 33 West 39th Street, New York, on Friday, May 18th, at 8:30 p.m. The meeting was called to order by President Buck who called upon Secretary Hutchinson to present the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. This report which was distributed at the meeting was briefly abstracted by Secretary Hutchinson. The report is published in full elsewhere in this issue."
"The Engineering Council is the outcome of several independent movements which took definite shape early during the present year. For a long time individual engineers and the engineering societies have considered the desirability of having some properly constituted organization empowered to speak in the name of engineers in general upon subjects of common interest to engineers and to the public. The need of such an organization in the interest of cooperation and uniformity of action on matters relating to the welfare of the engineering profession was brought to the attention of the Board of Directors of the Institute at its meeting held in Philadelphia in October 1916, at which the subject was discussed at considerable length. A resolution was adopted at that meeting authorizing the President to appoint a committee of five members of the Board and to invite the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the American Institute of Mining Engineers, to appoint similar representatives upon a joint committee with a view to formulating some plan of action for organizing such a central body. A series of conferences of the representatives appointed as a result of this action followed, and after considering numerous suggestions the conferees formulated a plan to amend the by-laws of the United Engineering Society so as to provide for a new department of that Society, to be known as The Engineering Council. These amendments were subsequently adopted, and have been approved by the four founder societies which constitute the United Engineering Society. The object and method of organization of the Council are expressed in the by-laws as follows:"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on May 18, 1917, at 3:30 p.m."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors held on May 18, the following rules governing the presentation and discussion of technical papers at Institute meetings, which had previously been prepared and recommended for adoption by the Meetings and Papers Committee, were approved by the Board for trial, and the committee was authorized to put them into effect at coming Institute meetings."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held May 18, reference was made to a valuable addition to the Library's resources on the history of electricity which has been recently made, through the gift by Mr. Theodore N. Vail of 505 volumes, none of which was already in our collection. The books are chiefly French and German and include many which are now hard to obtain. The volumes presented to this Library have been selected from the Dering collection; which was purchased by Mr. Vail and presented to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, with the understanding that the duplicates were to be given to this Library."
"Atlanta. — May 9, 1917, Chamber of Commerce. Illustrated address by Mr. M. C. Turpin on “Steam Railway Electrification”. Attendance 105."
"Ambuhl, F. F., Engineer, Toronto Hydroelectric System, 226 Yonge St.; res., 795 College St., Toronto, Ont."
"Mr. Victor W. Kliesrath, for many years Chief Engineer of the Bosch Magneto Company, has severed his connection with that concern. Mr. Kliesrath was largely instrumental in bringing the starting and lighting equipment up to the present high standard."
"This list includes books which have been presented to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"Vacancies The Institute is glad to learn of desirable vacancies from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested."
"In this paper the author, who was Chief of Illumination for the Panama-Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco, describes the system of lighting adopted for the Exposition, which was generally conceded to have initiated a new era in the art of illumination. From a narrow engineering point of view the lighting would have been regarded as inefficient, but the object striven for was to suppress high intrinsic brilliancy, while bringing out the architectural beauties of the Exposition structures in the most effective manner, bathed in a harmony of color. Many beautiful effects were obtained by the various installations which are described, and one of the most original features was the successful effort to preserve the curvature and detail in relief by the use of lights of different strengths and colors thrown from different or opposite directions upon the same object."
"The specifications are intended to apply in general to joints on cables operating at voltages above 10,000, and in particular to joints operating above 20,000 volts. The specifications include the following points: 1. The cable sheath should be cut back from the ends of the conductor a sufficient distance to allow the application of the insulation to the joint without injuring the insulation around the conductors. 2. The copper splicing sleeves should have a carrying capacity at least equal to that of the conductors. 3. The ends of the copper splicing sleeve should be carefully tapered, rounded and finished so as to eliminate all sharp points or edges. 4. The conductors should be separated from each other and from the enclosing lead sleeve by some form of solid insulation that will hold them in a fixed position relative to each other and to the enclosing lead sleeve. 5. The filling compound should have sufficient dielectric strength, which should not be materially reduced at the maximum operating temperature of the cable. a. It should be non-hygroscopic. b. It should not form cracks in cooling nor during cold weather. c. It should be sufficiently fluid when poured that it will flow into all air spaces before becoming chilled: e. It should be capable of being readily removed when necessary without injury to the insulation around the conductors. f. It should not have an excessive coefficient of expansion. 6. The insulation should be applied and the compound poured in such a manner that the joint will be without air pockets or voids. 7. All moisture should be carefully excluded from the joint. 8. If filling compounds with low melting point are used precaution should be taken to prevent the compound from running back into the cable at the maximum operating temperature. 9. The initials, or some other symbol, should be stamped on the joint to indicate the name of the Splicer. 10. The joint should be so located, supported and protected that it cannot be readily injured by men working in the manhole."
"This paper describes a series of tests made to determine the dielectric losses in various kinds of 13,000-volt cable. These losses were found to increase greatly with the temperature and thus become an important factor in the rating of such cables. A method is developed whereby the influence of these losses on the rating can be approximately calculated for duct lines with uniformly loaded cables."
"The insulation characteristics of different types of single- and three-conductor cable, determined largely by dielectric energy loss measurements, are discussed in detail. Particular attention is given to paper insulated cable, both new cable and cable that has been in service being considered. Varnished cambric and different grades of rubber insulation, as well as cable compounds are also dealt with briefly."
"As considerable time or a severe condition is necessary to show up serious insulator defects, the favorable line conditions on the earlier lines permitted the use of inferior material and designs. The apparently satisfactory operation of inferior insulators together with the large production necessary did much to retard improvement in the insulators, for improvement was practically impossible unless same could be accomplished without materially increasing the cost. The desire to increase production and improve the material necessitated radical changes in the manufacture and equipment, so that the well equipped plant today is far different from the ordinary pottery which it resembled a few years ago. The rapid development in the transmission field has materially changed conditions, and rendered much apparatus obsolete, the early insulator being no exception. As causes of losses have become evident, means have been found to eliminate the serious effects of same. The recognition of the increased value of reliability together with the study of operating conditions has materially changed the insulator situation, so that the material going to the scrap pile today is more suitable for line work than the best product a few years ago. The loss from porosity has been reduced to a negligible quantity by improved firing methods and a closer selection. To prevent the serious cracking loss noticeable on old insulators, has been the most difficult problem. To prevent trouble on old lines, it may be necessary to give the insulators a temperature, as well as an electrical test. Trouble from this source on modern insulators is prevented by careful attention to the temperature gradient, increased mechanical strength to resist internal stresses, and a lowering of the internal stresses by means of an elastic joint. The performance of the modern insulator is very gratifying, and its performance must not be judged by insulators which are really obsolete."
"A determination of the respective economic limits in steam and water power plant developments. Formulas are derived for determining total annual costs of each type of plant and the most economical combination. Certain general conclusions are reached as follows: Practically all water power plants should be developed beyond minimum power available and hence in combination with a steam plant. The economic limit depends largely on the value of money, fuel, labor, the increasing efficiency of steam turbines and the location of the enterprise."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership, its Thirty-third Annual Report for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1917. A General Balance Sheet showing the financial condition of the Institute on April 30, 1917, together with other detailed financial statements is included herein."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"The 331st meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Schenectady, N. Y., April 13, 1917 under the auspices of the Schenectady Section and the Standards Committee. The official headquarters of the Institute during the meeting will be at the Edison Club, 60 Washington Ave. The technical session will be held at the Mohawk Golf Club, Stop No. 5, Troy Road."
"The Annual Convention of the Institute will be held at Hot Springs, Va., covering the four day period, June 26–29, 1917. The Homestead Hotel has been selected as the headquarters for the convention."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors' was held at the University Club, Chicago, on Friday, March 9, 1917, at 2:30 p.m."
"The important fact of the year 1916 is that on July 25th contracts were executed by which the American Society of Civil Engineers became an additional Founder Society and arranged to make its permanent home in our building. The contracts provide for the construction of three additional stories to the building, the American Society to contribute sum considered equivalent to what each other Founder Society had contributed and to participate in the original Carnegie gift and have an equal share in the property with each other Founder Society."
"The Library Board of the United Engineering Society has published its annual report for 1916, which may be briefly summarized as follows:"
"Baltimore. — February 23, 1917, Johns Hopkins University. Paper: “Electricity in Steel Mills” by K. A. Pauly. Brief report by Dr. J. B. Whitehead on Midwinter Convention of the Institute. Attendance 45."
"Finn, James R., Chief Electrician, Cutler-Hammer Mfg. Co.; res., 1913 Cold Spring Ave., Milwaukee, Wis."
"Ferdinand W. Roebling, treasurer and general manager of the John A. Roebling Sons' Company, died at his home, 222 West State Street, Trenton, N.J., March 16, 1917. Mr. Roebling was born in Saxonburg, Penn., Feb. 27, 1842 and was a son of John A. Roebling, the pioneer rope manufacturer in this country."
"Mr. John D. Ball has accepted the Professorship of Electrical Engineering at the School of Engineering of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Mr. Ball is a graduate electrical engineer of Illinois University. During his service for the past ten years in the Testing Department, Standardizing Laboratory and Consulting Engineering Department of the General Electric Company, he has presented to the Engineering Societies and the domestic and foreign technical press a number of articles connected with his investigation of magnetic phenomena."
"This list includes books which have been presented to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"Vacancies. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable vacancies from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested."
"The 1916 A. I. E. E. Rules require that the temperature rise of transformer windings be observed by the resistance method. Since the measurement of resistance usually requires considerable time, there is always a drop in temperature between the instant of shut-down and the time of observing this resistance measurement. There are three general methods of determining the temperature at shut-down. These are: 1. To take a cooling curve and extrapolate back to the instant of shut-down. 2. To use an arbitrary correction. 3. To calculate the rate of cooling. The usual theoretical formula for calculating the cooling of a body is not in a convenient form for practical use. Furthermore, the conditions in a transformer are generally such that it would be difficult to apply. However, it is shown in the paper that the cooling of oil-immersed transformer windings, for a limited time (four or five minutes) after shut-down, is approximately a function of the watts per lb. of copper, and that when it is necessary to make calculations, more accurate results can be obtained by this partially empirical method than by attempting to use the theoretical formula. Under “Conclusions”, the general advantages and disadvantages of each method are given. In the Appendix are developed certain formulas used in the paper."
"1. A demand for specifications which will enable purchasers of rubber insulation for wire or cable to secure good material on the basis of competitive bids has existed for many years."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"The 330th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Chicago, Ill., March 9, 1917. The official headquarters of the Institute during the meeting will be in the Hotel Sherman, Clark and Randolph Streets, where the various committee meetings and the technical session will be held."
"The Annual Convention of the Institute will be held at Hot Springs, Va., covering the four day period, June 26–29, 1917. The Homestead Hotel has been selected as the headquarters for the convention."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters in New York on Thursday, February 15, 1917, at 4:00 p.m."
"The response to the Military Classification Data circular sent out under date of February 8, by the Executive Committee to the Institute membership has been very gratifying, and over 1200 data sheets are now in the hands of the special committee of the Institute for classification."
"The fifth annual midwinter convention of the A. I. E. E. was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on the 14th, 15th and 16th of February, 1917. All sessions were well attended, the total registration reached 712."
"Baltimore. — January 19, 1917, Public Service Building. Subject: The Public Service Building. The various features of the building were explained by Messrs. Robert E. Lee Taylor, E. H. Tillman, W. R. Moulton, and C. L. Reeder. Attendance 33."
"Cutting, Fulton, President, Cutting & Washington Inc., 26 Portland St., Cambridge; res., Beverly, Mass."
"Mr. H. C. Deffenbaugh, who for several years has been cost engineer for the Rochester (N. Y.) Railway and Light Company has resigned to take the position as engineer and assistant to the secretary, Empire State Gas and Electric Association, 29 West 39th St., New York."
"This list includes books which have been presented to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"Vacancies. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable vacancies from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested."
"Comparisons are made of the standardization rules for electrical machinery now in force in various countries. It is shown that the differences are of a very minor character and that machinery built in conformance with the American rules will usually also conform with the rules employed in other countries. The suggestion is made that 55 degrees could be employed as the ambient temperature of reference for tropical ratings and it is maintained that such a plan fits in nicely with the value of 40 degrees already adopted as the ambient temperature of reference for other than tropical ratings. Attention is called to a series of acceptance tests on some large waterwheel generators and to the temperature results obtained by making cyclic heat runs on these machines."
"The author considers the following arrangements desirable: For radial feeders not in parallel — inverse-time-limit overload relays, with selective ground relays. Radial feeders in parallel — reverse-power relays in combination with reverse-time-element relays, or the balanced system. Single lines in tandem — definite and inverse-time-limit relays with progressively longer time settings near the generating station. Two or more parallel lines in tandem — inverse-time-limit relays at the points where the power leaves the station or substation, and overload relays in combination with reverse-power relays at the points where the power enters the substation; also, the balanced system preferable, when possible. Single line ring systems — inverse-time-limit relays, combined with reverse-energy relays, or, preferably, the balanced system. Parallel line ring systems — inverse-time-limit relays on the outgoing feeders at the generating stations, and a balanced interconnected combination of reverse-energy and inverse-time-limit relays at the receiving ends of the supply feeders. Tie lines — some balanced arrangement. Generator relays seldom used, but arrangements are suggested. Transformers — differential relays. Special grounding relays for extra high-tension cable feeders. Appendices A, B, C describe connections of reverse-power relays, relay testing and a special installation."
"Where the use of protective devices is based primarily on the desire to maintain a high continuity of service rather than to protect apparatus, the tendency in the development of large systems is toward interconnection, and to make this practicable, satisfactory relays are necessary. The paper describes briefly the system of the Commonwealth Edison Company of Chicago with special reference to the protective devices installed thereon. Generators are equipped with balanced relays, lines with induction-type inverse-time-element relays, some of them of the uni-directional type, and balanced relays, while substation apparatus has the usual equipment of overload relays, speed-limit devices, etc., and outgoing feeders the instantaneous type of relays. The arrangement of these relays is shown and some of the settings described."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"The 335th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, December 14, 1917, at 8:15 p.m."
"The annual meeting of the A. S. M. E. will be held in New York December 4 to 7, 1917 at Society Headquarters, 29 West 39th St. The meeting will be addressed at the opening session at 8:30 p. m. on Tuesday evening, December 4, by Hon. William H. Taft on the occasion of conferring Honorary Membership upon Major-General George W. Goethals."
"As announced in the November Proceedings, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Meetings and Papers Committee, authorized a regular Institute meeting to be held during the coming winter in Cleveland. Arrangements are accordingly being made to hold the regular March meeting of the Institute in Cleveland under the combined auspices of the Cleveland, Detroit, Toledo, Toronto, and Pittsburgh Sections, all of which will cooperate in the preparation of the program and securing the discussion for this meeting."
"As provided in Section 20 of the Institute by-laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1918, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than fifty members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1918. For the convenience of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available. A member is not limited in the number of candidates he may endorse in this manner."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Army and Navy service with the United States and her Allies."
"Under date of November 1 the following letter was mailed to each member of the Institute, together with the classification form referred to therein:"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, November 9, 1917, at 3:30 p. m."
"The 334th meeting of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York, November 9, 1917, In the absence of the President, Mr. E. W. Rice. Jr., the Senior Vice-President, Mr. B. A. Behrend, called the meeting to order at 8:20p.m. The attendance was about 175."
"Civil Engineering Corps of U. S. Naval Reserve Force: An examination will be held to select an eligibility list for candidates for enrolment as civil engineers in the U. S. Naval Reserve Force. Those now in the U. S. Naval Reserve Force and civilians are eligible."
"Boston. October 16, 1917, Engineers Club. Lecture by Dr. A. E. Kennelly on “Laboratory Tests on Long Alternating-Current Lines.” Attendance 75."
"Andreae, Fritz Volkmar, Head Electrician, Southern Manganese Corp.; res., 1206 Quintard Ave., Anniston, Ala."
"C. G. Cox, District Manager of McIntosh & Seymour at St. Louis has transferred his office to San Francisco because of the greatly increasing field for marine Diesel oil engines on the Pacific coast."
"John Gilmartin, Superintendent of Meter Department of the Detroit Edison Co., died at his home in Detroit on November 12th from typhoid fever. Mr. Gilmartin was a pioneer in electric meter work. His early experience was gained in Toledo and from there he was called to Detroit, where he was put in charge of the Meter Department. He was a member of the N. E. L. A., and an associate of the A. I. E. E."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made. These are taken either from the preface or the text of the book."
"Vacancies The Institute is glad to learn of desirable vacancies from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested."
"Description of the annual load relief map which is a device for visualizing the entire yearly load of central stations. Review of load characteristics, as exemplified by the annual load relief map. Notes on daylight saving relative to the decreasing of peak load, and improvement in load factor. Analysis of load factors as applied to “base” and “top” loads demonstrating the large amount of idle capacity peculiar to central stations. Annual load relief map valuable in the study and exemplification of all matters having to do with central station loads."
"This paper describes some corona tests which were made in Peru on a 70-mile transmission line located at an average altitude of 13,500 feet. The voltages range from 40,000 to about 72,000. The method employed in the tests is described and the calculations are given. The corona losses were found by subtracting the core and copper losses of the transformers and the line copper losses due to the line charging currents from the total loss measured. Core-loss tests were made on the transformers in order to check these against the shop tests. The highest voltage experimented with was 72,300 when a corona loss of 153 kw. was found, or a little over two kw. per mile of line. The results are compared to “Peek's law” and a wide divergence found, amounting to over 800 per cent at about 66,000 volts and a loss of 58 kw. Close correspondence is found between these tests and those made by Faccioli on the Shoshone-Leadville line, and the equation of the loss-voltage curve obtained is the same as was established by Faccioli, and shows this relation to be logarithmic and not quadratic for the voltage range investigated. It is shown that the results are in good agreement with the formulas deduced by Professor Ryan from extensive laboratory tests. Finally test data are given for a test made during rainy weather and this shows no appreciable difference from tests made during fair weather."
"1. Hysteresis, as well as variation of permeability, gives rise to harmonics of considerable magnitude in the exciting current of a transformer; the components from the two sources are in quadrature for each harmonic. 2. There is a fallacy in the idea that the harmonics in the exciting current of a transformer are entirely wattless. 3. For transmission lines of modern lengths, the effect of the line is to reduce the third harmonic voltage between neutral and line terminals of a star-star connected bank of transformers having grounded neutral on the line side only. 4. In transmission with star-star transformer banks having grounded neutral on the line side only, the interrelation of line susceptance from conductor to ground in series with the varying susceptance of the individual transformers may cause the total m.m.f. of one of the transformers to pass through zero at the same instant as the impressed e.m.f.; and thus, give opportunity for a reversal of this transformer due to inertia, thereby producing a periodically reversing leg and abnormal voltages. 5. In a similar system with high quality line insulation, the effect of atmospheric charges on the line conductors may be to cause the transformer of the bank to assume relations with one leg permanently reversed when energized from the station side; thus, imposing unbalanced voltage conditions on the bank and producing, in two of the units, fundamental frequency components of voltage 264 per cent of normal. 6. Combinations and accentuations of the above causes may, through natural requirements, give rise to a double frequency pulsation of the potential of the hypothetical neutral of the line conductors; thus, producing, in the leg voltages, second harmonic components of extremely large dimensions which are limitless so far as is yet known. 7. The above applies also in case a group of star-connected ironclad reactors, such as auto-transformers without tertiary windings, are employed to ground the neutral of an otherwise isolated neutral transmission. 8. Results, obtained in the laboratory with a three-phase star-star connected bank of transformers feeding condensers between line conductors and line side neutral, though not yet sufficiently extensive to confirm all of the above statements, show that the voltages from line terminals to neutral are in considerable measure independent of the primary impressed delta voltages so far as concerns wave shape and frequency."
"The distribution of alternating magnetic flux density in ring laminae is studied experimentally. It is found to differ materially at different radii, not only in root-mean-square magnitude, but also in wave form. The reasons for this distortion are discussed."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"The 328th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Pittsburgh, Pa., January 12, 1917, under the auspices of the Pittsburgh Section and the Traction and Transportation Committee."
"The Fifth Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, February 14 to 16, 1917. There will be five technical sessions, one each morning and on Wednesday and Friday afternoon. Thursday evening there will be a lecture under the auspices of the Electrophysics Committee. Wenesday evening and Thursday afternoon will be devoted to social features, inspection trips and other entertainment features which are being arranged by the Entertainment Committee and the Technical Excursion Committee. The technical program includes a diversity of subjects which will insure wide interest."
"As provided in Section 20 of the Institute by-laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1917, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than fifty members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1917. For the convenience of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., on Friday, December 8, 1916, at 11:00 a.m."
"The 327th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held on December 9, 1916 in the Central Lecture Hall of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, under the auspices of the Boston Section and the Protective Devices Committee. Two sessions were held, the technical session at 3 p. m. and the evening session devoted to the presentation of the John Fritz Medal at 8.30 p. m."
"The evening session of the Boston meeting of the Institute, held December 8, was assigned to the John Fritz Medal Board of Award, in accordance with a request received from that board that arrangements be made for the presentation of the John Fritz Medal to Dr. Elihu Thomson, Past President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, at a suitable meeting of the Institute."
"Boston. — November 14, 1916. Address by Mr Leonard L. Howard on “Mica, Its Sources and Manufactured Product”. Attendance 90."
"Mr. Charles F. Thompson, for several years associated with the railway and engineering departments of the General Electric Company, has resigned to take up commercial engineering with the Research Corporation, 63 Wall Street, New York City."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting on November 28, 1916, recommended the following members of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"Vacancies. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable vacancies from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested."
"This list includes books which have been presented to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"This paper discusses the problems met in applying regenerative control to electric railways. In the introductory section the purposes, advantages, requirements and disadvantages of regenerative control are pointed out, and then the author takes up the description of various systems. In doing this, special attention is paid to those systems which are well adapted to illustrate some fundamental principle, and to those which are of some practical importance. Other systems are, on account of space limitations, mentioned only briefly, or entirely omitted. The three-phase system is discussed under the following heads: regeneration near synchronous and above synchronous speeds; line regulation; practical results and safety of operation; influence upon power factor; regeneration at speeds below synchronism. The phase converter system is next taken up, with a consideration of the requirements of such a system, and practical results attained. Direct-current systems of regenerative control and their problems are exhaustively discussed, under the following heads: series, shunt, and separately excited generator; classification and description of separately excited systems with generators operated by line voltage; inherently constant excitation; excitation varying with the line voltage; excitation varying with the regenerated current; series-parallel control; capacity of exciter and switches; systems with variable armature voltage; miscellaneous direct-current systems; transmission system and substations. The next division of the paper deals with alternating-current commutator motor systems, including those with separately excited generators, armature self-excited generators, excitation varying with the regenerated current, and stator self (load)-excited generators, and the subject of commutation is discussed. The possibilities of regenerative control with a vapor converter system are then analyzed, and the paper ends with a statement of the general conclusions reached."
"This paper gives an outline of the investigation of suspension insulator deterioration undertaken by Professor H. J. Ryan and Assistant Professor J. C. Clark, and explained farther in their papers. It cites the origin of the investigation, the limiting factors encountered and methods employed to overcome such handicaps. The results of this investigation are admitted as disappointing and inconclusive on the causes of deterioration, although several causes previously considered probable have been eliminated."
"The fundamental requirements in satisfactory high-voltage line insulators are summarized and particular emphasis is placed upon the need for coordinated study of service durability. The effect of porosity upon durability is explained in detail and an appeal made for the establishment of a practical porosity elimination test. The manufacture and structure of electrical porcelain is studied from the viewpoint of the ceramist, with many quotations and illustrations taken from the Transactions of the American Ceramic Society. The author briefly states the conclusions at which he has arrived and gives a very complete list of references and notes."
"The author gives a very complete description of the experiments on porcelain suspension insulator units carried on at Stanford University by him and his assistants under the direction of Prof. H. J. Ryan. He explains the preliminary organization necessary, the scope of the tests, and the unusual equipment required to measure the very high resistance of sound, dry insulators. Preliminary resistance measurements were made on all normal batches of porcelain units and the results tabulated, as also were results obtained when the units were subjected to mechanical stress, to voltages ranging from 1,000 to 30,000, to temperature variation. Another set of tests was made to determine the effect of moisture in insulators. Drying insulators for a few hours in an oven at 150 deg. cent. produced very conclusive results of the effect of moisture in lowering resistance. Attempts were made to water-log units by soaking, by soaking with a temperature cycle applied, by subjecting units under various conditions to a steam pressure of 60 lb., and by a vacuum treatment of insulators before soaking. A brief statement is given of the conclusions arrived at."
"This paper gives a careful compilation of figures showing the total fixed installed primary power in the United States and similar figures for total installed water power, at the same time calling attention to the unreliability of statistics in general. With these figures, those compiled by the Commissioner of Corporation are summarized and compared. The geographic distribution of installed water power is considered and many interesting facts revealed when these figures are examined from the viewpoint of population distribution. A study of the development of water power between 1889 and 1909 shows some interesting differences as compared with distribution of manufacturing power and total developed water power. The author next takes up the question of the possibilities of water power development and points out the fallacy of power development waiting upon demand instead of creating it. The immense field for hydroelectric power which a development of the electro-chemical and electro-metallurgical industries would create with the success of such industries abroad is cited and an appeal made for a Federal policy of encouraging business enterprise instead of obstructing it."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"The fifth annual midwinter convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held February 14, 15 and 16, in the Engineering Societies Building, New York. There will be five technical sessions, a number of interesting inspection trips, an informal reception, and the convention will close with a dinner-dance Friday evening."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at the Duquesne Club, Pittsburgh, Pa., on Friday January 12, 1917, at 3:00 p.m."
"Henry Gordon Stott, Past-president of the Institute, died at his home in New Rochelle, January 15th, 1917, after an illness of many months."
"At a meeting held in Jacksonville, Florida, Dec. 22 and Dec. 23, 1916 with an attendance of about eighty, there was organized the Florida Engineering Society. The membership will include electrical, mechanical, civil and mining engineers, and naval architects."
"Johnson, Harley Alden, Master Mechanic, Metropolitan West Side Elevated Ry. Co., Northwestern Elevated R. R. Co., Chicago & Oak Park Elevated R. R. Co., Chicago, Ill."
"Mr. A. W. K. Billings formerly managing director and vice-president of the Ebro Irrigation and Power Company, Ltd., Barcelona, Spain, has opened an office as consulting engineer at 115 Broadway, New York. Previous to his work in Spain Mr. Billings spent two years in Pittsburgh and ten years in Cuba on electric railway and power plant construction and for two years was engineering manager of J. G. White & Co., Inc."
"Vacancies. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable vacancies from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested."
"This list includes books which have been presented to the library of the A. I. E. E. and the U. E. S. during the past month, not including periodicals and other exchanges."
"The paper deals with the internal temperatures of a number of typical large a-c. generators; this temperature being measured by a thermo-couple placed between armature coils in the same slot and in the center of the core. The difference between these measured internal temperatures and the corresponding surface temperatures in the tests given varies from 0 deg. to 35.5 deg. This wide divergence is explained by the aid of the tests and of calculations. A method of calculation for internal temperatures is given which is based on simple heat laws and on data obtained from many tests. By means of the tests and of parallel calculations, the effect on the internal temperature of changes in frequency, core length, thickness and quality of insulation, armature current density and core densities, is explained. The capacity of the end windings to dissipate heat from the center of the core is also discussed. In conclusion, it is stated that although the wide divergence between surface and internal temperatures of different classes of generators is regular and can be justified, yet it is plain that there is no one average figure that can be used for that difference for all classes of a-c. generators."
"The advantages and limitations in the use of current limiting reactors in hydroelectric stations are not so well recognized or understood as they are in steam turbine stations, but it is now coming to be realized that their use may be quite as justifiable and necessary in the former as in the latter. The two beneficial results of reactance, protection and localization, are distinct; the former being associated with the square, and the latter with the first power of the reactance. Of two detrimental results of reactance, or limitations to its use, one, that of voltage drop, is well understood but the other, the reduction of synchronous stability is not so well understood. The installation of reactance usually results in a decrease in the stability of synchronism. Such stability may be expressed in terms of the angular phase displacement between two groups, due to a sudden load disturbance. Practically, complete instability or asynchronism occurs in a large station when the phase angle exceeds 90 deg. The asynchronizing effect of a sudden load change is approximately twice that of a gradual change of the same magnitude. The origination of a power surge by sudden loss of load and the accompanying hunting oscillation is described. Increased reactance increases the amplitude of both the power surge and the phase-angle oscillation and also increases the period. A certain amount of reactance will result in complete asynchronism immediately following the load disturbance, and a smaller amount may cause troublesome and persistent hunting by forced harmonic oscillation of the turbine governors in combination with certain hydraulic conditions, such as long penstocks. It is shown that these phenomena form a practical limitation to the use of reactance, in that the reactances necessary to create the conditions described are of the same magnitude as those often indicated for protective and localizing purposes. The actual occurrence of a surge is described."
"The paper points out the danger to which the neutral point of transformers, connected to long distance transmission lines, are exposed through the building up of excessive potentials at this point under conditions of atmospheric lightning. This is due to the fact that the neutral point in a bank of Y-connected transformers acts as a reflection point for all the waves that are produced by induced lightning, which waves, at the place of origin, have the same amplitude and sign, and, therefore, travel with equal speed, considering that the impedance of line and transformer is the same for each phase. The three waves meeting attheneutral point build up to three times their individual potential at that place, thereby producing excessive potential stresses, and, according to experience, destruction of bushings and windings. The author recommends the installation of lightning arresters at the neutral point to provide a discharge path for the excess potential, which, according to measurement with a spark gap, may reach values of 350,000 volts, and higher."
"The results of an investigation of the corona discharge between co-axial cylinders in an atmosphere of hydrogen are given in this paper. Both direct and alternating electromotive forces were used. The characteristic behavior of the corona is given by means of curves, photographs and oscillograms. The corona discharge in hydrogen was found to differ from that in air in the following particulars: The discharge from a negative wire was found to differ widely from a positive wire in the magnitude of the voltage necessary to start the discharge in the shape of the volt-ampere characteristic and also in the stability of the discharge. Corona in hydrogen between concentric cylinders is shown to be a practicable method for rectifying high potential alternating currents. The apparent evidence of ionization potential gradients at the surface of the tube and the general character of the visual phenomena are discussed. A brief statement of conclusions is given."
"In view of the variation among the values obtained by different observers, this paper aims to make a careful determination of corona-forming voltages for alternating and for positive and negative continuous voltages in the same apparatus and under the same conditions. Within the range of wire diameters used, corona appears at a lower value when the wire is positive than when it is negative, although the two curves converge for increasing diameters. The maximum excess of negative over positive, as observed, was 6.3 per cent. The values with alternating voltage coincide with those of negative continuous voltage. Positive continuous voltage therefore forms corona at the lowest value. The observations on the negative corona give values higher than any heretofore obtained. Other experiments are described, giving qualitative indications of the correctness of Townsend's theory of ionization by collision."
"The oscillating-current circuit differs from the alternating-current circuit in that the sinusoids involved are damped. In the same way that alternating-current theorems are obtained by generalizing direct-current theorems, it is possible to obtain oscillating-current theorems by still further generalization. This involves a generalized angular velocity and a generalized impedance which are complex quantities. Kirchoff's law may be thus generalized; and yields a simple method of determining the generalized angular velocities, and thus the frequencies and decrements, of free oscillation. Since, in an oscillating-current circuit, there is no impressed voltage, the initial voltage present in the circuit must be used in determining the amplitudes of oscillation. This results in the introduction of a “threshold impedance” for use in determining the amplitudes, which is obtained by a single differentiation from the generalized impedance. Further direct-current rules may also be readily generalized for convenient use in the solution of oscillating-current circuits. A simple example is given to show the method of procedure. The discharge of a leaky condenser through a reactor furnishes a second example which better illustrates the convenience of the method for numerical computations. As a third example the oscillation of a three section artificial cable under particular terminal conditions is chosen. The algebraical portion of this example is given in an appendix. A list of symbols used will be found at the end of the paper."
"This paper discusses a number of transient conditions existing in asynchronous machines immediately after certain changes in the circuit connections are made. The advisability of considering these conditions in connection with the control layout for the purpose of eliminating bad effects caused thereby, is pointed out. The principal subjects considered are undesirable peak currents, which may be caused by the damping effect of the short-circuited rotor windings and the over-voltages, which are obtained with certain control arrangements."
"Continuous operation of the wound-rotor induction motor, when the external resistances in the secondary phases are not equal, is shown to be feasible. The effect upon power factor and heating is discussed. Curves showing the performance of polyphase motors with single-phase secondary are presented. The practical advantages of using unbalanced secondary connections are pointed out."
"Stating that present day development of motors and controllers is such that former limitations as to regulation of starting current from the viewpoint of motor, controller and supply system have been largely removed, the author presents a series of tests on 15 and 20-h. p., 230-volt, d-c. shunt motors, started from rest. The motors are of two types, constant and adjustable speed. These tests were made to determine: first, the load driven by the motor; second, the power supply; third, the motor operation. From these tests the author concludes, in part; that it is practical with automatic acceleration to use one switch to short-circuit the armature resistor used with motors as large as 15 h. p.; that the shunt field of small adjustable speed motors can be reduced in one step under normal load conditions (this practise can be safely followed up to motors of 50 h. p.); and that adjustable speed motors can use one step resistance for dynamic braking."
"In this paper are derived the mathematical expressions for the current, speed, torque and power at any time during the accelerating period when a shunt, series or compound motor is connected to a supply line."
"An account of a cable breakdown near one of the generating stations of the Commonwealth Edison Company's system. The breakdown resulted in a second breakdown on same line within the station, which prevented the oil switch from automatically disconnecting the fault. The system is amply protected by reactors for generators and between bus sections. Their effect on the stability of synchronous apparatus on sections protected by them is very marked. The protection to generating station apparatus was complete. Comparison of maximum stresses encountered in the short circuit as it occurred with what they might have been without reactors present are made, and the conclusion is drawn that without them the damage resulting would have been considerable and the service interruption far more general and serious."
"Membership in the Society of Motion Picture Engineers stands for unselfish service to the Industry. Applications for membership are by invitation and endorsement. All checks should be made payable to the Society of Motion Picture Engineers."
"In the development of a lamp suitable for the projection of motion pictures, it is essential that the light source be concentrated as closely as possible. After a number of experiments on filament arrangement, there have been developed two forms of filament for incandescent lamps for motion picture projection. The first successful arrangement of the filament was in two rows with coil sections parallel to each other, the coils in the second row of filament being placed so that they came between the coils in the first row. This arrangement gives the appearance of a solid source of light from a position directly in front. However, the condenser picks up light from all points within an angle of thirty to forty degrees from the line of projection. The edges of the condenser therefore pick up light from the front row, of coils and those portions of the coils in the back row which are not obscured by the coils in the front row. By means of the biplane arrangement, however, it is possible to obtain a greater amount of filament within the area which can be effectively used by the condenser; the useful area with practically any condenser system being not greater than ½ʺ square. If a spherical mirror is used back of the biplane coil, the reflected images make it possible to obtain a uniform screen."
"I have been invited to address you on the subject, “Light Intensities for Motion Picture Projection”—a subject which is of very real importance but concerning which there is a scarcity of data. The best I can do, therefore, is to discuss the factors affecting light intensities and draw from this discussion tentative conclusions for your consideration."
"Membership in the Society of Motion Picture Engineers stands for unselfish service to the Industry. Applications for membership are by invitation and endorsement. All checks should be made payable to the Society of Motion Picture Engineers."
"The following have been adopted as standards by the Society of Motion Picture Engineers, and are promulgated to encourage uniformity and standard practice throughout the Industry as a whole. Their early universal adoption will save the industry a great deal of present annoyance and monetary loss."
