"Los Angeles. — June 7, 1918, Brack Shops Hall. Celebration of tenth anniversary of the Section. Paper: “A Unified and Electrified Transportation System for the Los Angeles District.” by Geo. A. Damon. Election of officers as follows — chairman, A. W. Nye; secretary, J. H. Cunningham; asst. secretary, Clem A. Copeland; executive committee, H. A. Barre, R. H. Halpenny, Ford W. Harris and L. A. Gary. Attendance 52."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Unless otherwise indicated the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before October 31, 1918."
"John A. Dewhurst, has resigned his position as Schedule Superintendent with the Twin City Rapid Transit Company at Minneapolis to take up engineering work with the firm of Day and Zimmerman, Inc., of 611 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Previous to his employment with the Twin City Rapid Transit Co., Mr. Dewhurst was with the G. E. Co., in the Railway and Traction Engineering Dept."
"Any reader knowing the present address of any of the following members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Opportunities. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the Bulletin should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Societies do not assume responsibility for any statements made; these are taken from the preface of the text of the book. All the books listed may be consulted in the Engineering Societies Library."
"This paper covers a brief review of the uses of electric spot and arc welding in this country prior to the formation of the Electric Welding Committee of the Emergency Fleet Corporation. It compares the status of the art at the present time and emphasizes the developments that have been made in apparatus in the last six months. It treats of the activities of the Welding Committee in applying electric welding processes to the shipbuilding industry and points the way to the general applicability of this method to other industries. It shows that the results obtained by investigation and physical tests prove that the applications of this process to heavy work are satisfactory."
"This paper gives figures as to the power cost and current consumption of anthracite mines and the reasons for these being in excess of the requirements bituminous mines. Estimates are also given as to the additional coal that will be released by the electrification of the anthracite mines. Illustrations are included showing representative installations of electric drive."
"The standardization of mine hoists, from an engineering standpoint is considered impossible on account of the wide variation in the conditions and methods under which anthracite coal is mined. The problem of drum shape consists in varying the diameter of different parts of the winding drum so that the load may be accelerated and retarded at the beginning and end of its travel with the minimum consumption of power. Numerical examples of the performance of various drum shapes under assumed conditions are given."
"IN an address delivered in the Engineering Societies Building on May 28, at the kind invitation of the Engineering Foundation, I briefly sketched “the War Activities of the National Research Council.”∗ The wide scope of my subject, calling for some reference to the work of the Council in the various branches of the physical and biological sciences, as well as in agriculture, medicine, and other arts, forced me to touch very lightly upon engineering. I therefore beg permission to return to this phase of the subject in the present paper."
"This issue of the Proceedings is published in advance of the Convention in order to afford advance circulation for four of the Convention papers which it was found impossible to include in the June issue."
"We must count on the return from the front of thousands of crippled soldiers. We must plan to give them on their return the best possible chance for the future."
"Two thousand engineers are needed immediately by the United States Army for commission as first lieutenants and captains. The Chief of Engineers has outlined a plan of campaign by which it is hoped to obtain the men needed without delay. A board of examiners will be sent out from Washington to visit about 33 principal cities."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Army and Navy service with the United States and her Allies. This list supplements those published in the last seven numbers of the Proceedings and includes only those members who are in the armed forces and who have responded to the War Service card sent to the membership on Sept. 15, 1917, or have otherwise communicated with Institute headquarters. Members in Army and Navy service who have not been listed are requested to furnish the Institute with their proper military designation."
"During the past twenty years the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company and the General Electric Company have collected a valuable library of some nine thousand volumes on electricity. The collection was intended especially for use in patent searches and is particularly rich in patent material. Files of all the principal patents relating to electric light and power issued by America, England, France and Germany are present, together with copies of the patents owned or controlled by the two companies. Another feature, and one of unusual value, is a series of volumes containing the records of the important adjudicated patent causes of these companies and their predecessors during the past twenty-five years, and forming a storehouse of electrical history. There are also files of about one hundred electrical periodicals."
"Chicago. — May 27, 1918, Western Society of Engineers Rooms. Paper: “Regulation of Street Series Lamps in Milwaukee”, by F. A. Vaughn. Attendance 60."
"The Board of Examiners, at its regular monthly meeting, held on June 10, 1918, recommended the following member of the Institute for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to this transfer should be filed at once with the Secretary."
"W. H. Thompson has resigned his position in the Heavy Traction Railway Dept., Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., to accept the position of Works Manager for the Fairmont Mining Machinery Company of Fairmont, W. Va."
"William Johnson Jenks, electrical engineer and a recognized leader among patent experts in this country, died at West Bridgewater, Massachusetts, at the age of 65, on June 1, 1918, after an illness extending over several years. Mr. Jenks was born at North Brookfield, Massachusetts. He was elected an Associate of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, June 8, 1887 and was transferred to the grade of Member November 1, 1887. He was one of the organizers of the Library of the Institute which now forms a part of the Library of the United Engineering Societies, and served for many years on the Library Committee."
"Opportunities. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the Bulletin should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made. These are taken either from the preface or the text of the book. All the books listed may be consulted in the Engineering Societies Library."
"This paper presents the results obtained in a recent design of transposition systems for telephone circuits exposed to induction from circuits of other kinds, particularly from three-phase power circuits, and the coordinate arrangements of transpositions in the power circuits. The new arrangements are the result of a systematic investigation of the degree of flexibility which could be obtained in the coordination of telephone transpositions and transpositions in outside disturbing circuits, particularly three-phase power circuits. In presenting the results obtained, a discussion is first given of the requirements which must be met by systems of transpositions for telephone circuits in general, and by the new “exposed line” system in particular. An outline is given of the methods used in the design work and the theory upon which it is based. The diagrams in the paper show the arrangements of transpositions for all circuits on eight crossarms of telephone line. The results to be obtained from the use of these diagrams are outlined, and the suitable locations of coordinate transpositions in parallel power circuits are discussed. The application of these and other arrangements of coordinated transpositions to specific cases must take into account the variations in separation and other changes in the power and telephone circuits. It is considered to be beyond the scope of the present paper to go into a discussion of the problems involved in these specific applications."
"Reference is made to propaganda against processes for making nitrates from air by those interested in keeping the Allies dependant on supplies of nitrate from Chili. A tabular comparison is made of the operations involved in the indirect method and the direct method of fixing nitrogen. The indirect method involves the manufacture of carbide of calcium and its combination with nitrogen to form calcium cyanimid, from which ammonia and in turn nitric acid are obtained. The direct method merely consists in combining nitrogen and oxygen of the air in the electric arc. In the direct method electric energy is the only factor, whereas by the indirect much plant of a very diverse and complicated character is required. Also there are difficulties in connection with the platinum catalyst necessary to convert ammonia into nitric acid. It is claimed that the direct method is better because of the simplicity of plant and of operation, and the possibility of working with off peak power. The suggestion is made that a number of plants for making nitrates by the direct arc process should be erected at existing power houses. Keeping the generating plant more fully employed would improve the power factor and reduce costs. By making nitrate in a number of centers the transportation of same to the explosive factories would be reduced and the risk of interruption of supplies in case of accident or sabotage would be less than in having a few very large factories. A diagram is given showing the layout of a battery of by-product coke ovens with an electric power house worked by the surplus gas and a nitrate from air plant to use the electricity. Figures are given showing that the nitric acid made by such a plant is about the right amount to combine with the ammonia to form ammonium nitrate, a compound in great demand at the present time for explosives."
"Primarily, this paper is intended to be a brief history of the principal experiences of the Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston in the design and application of selective balanced-protection schemes to parallel connected transmission conductors. Split-conductor cables are discussed at considerable length, both as to design and operation. Paired ordinary conductors also are discussed, and their relation to so-called split-conductors pointed out. Special apparatus and devices required in connection with current-balancing schemes are illustrated and discussed. A partial nomenclature is proposed, to assist in clearing the way for intelligent discussion and a uniform understanding of the general subject of current-balance protection for paired conductors. A schedule of installations in the Boston system is given in order that the extent of the work described may be visualized, supplemented by a description of the results obtained in actual operation. No general conclusions are drawn since the paper is of the nature of a report on progress; specific conclusions are drawn, however, in a number of cases where the evidence or experience appears to be reasonably conclusive. A mathematical discussion of a number of reactive end-impedance devices, by Professor C. A. Adams, is appended."
"Part I treats of the calculation and application of the armature self-inductive reactance of synchronous machines. A short, reliable method is given in the form of curves, Figs. 20a, b, c, making the calculation from design sheet data a matter of a few minutes. Table I shows a comparison of calculated and test values (obtained from saturation and synchronous impedance curves) for 138 machines, ranging from high-speed turbine generators to the low-speed engine type. Three points were brought out during the investigation: (1) That in polyphase machines, the armature self-inductive reactance, just as the armature reaction, is a polyphase, not a single-phase, phenomenon, and therefore the mutual induction of phases in a three-phase machine increases the effective self-induction of each phase by approximately 50 per cent over the single-phase value, while in two-phase machines, in which the mutual induction of phases is zero, the effective self-induction of the phase is the same for two-phase or single-phase operation. (2) That the variation of armature reactance during the cycle, due to salient-pole construction, is practically eliminated in Y-connected, three-phase machines for the reason that the variation, consisting almost entirely of a third harmonic, is cancelled in such machines. This leaves, in effect, a uniform reluctance for the leakage flux emanating from the tooth tips. (3) That in the familiar method of obtaining the armature self-induction from the saturation and synchronous impedance curves (i.e., by subtracting the armature reaction, that is, the demagnetizing ampere turns of normal current under sustained short circuit, from the corresponding field ampere turns), a very large error in this test value of self-induction may occur, if, as is usually done, the armature reaction is calculated on sine wave assumptions. A set of curves shown in Fig. 20, which are plotted from results derived in Appendices A and B, give values of the correction factor which applies to calculations based on sine wave. An approximate, but convenient, method of applying the armature reactance in the calculation of field excitation under load is given in Appendix C. In Part II it is shown that the initial short-circuit current of synchronous machines is determined not only by the armature self-inductive reactance, as is often assumed, but also by the field self-inductive reactance. Neglecting the field reactance in calculation may give a calculated short-circuit current 50 per cent or more, too high. A formula is derived for calculating the field reactance which, added to the armature reactance, gives the total which determines the initial short-circuit current and which it is proposed should be called, as previously recommended by other authors, transient reactance. Table IV shows a comparison on eleven machines of the actual short-circuit currents as determined by oscillograph, and as calculated by methods proposed in the paper. The calculations of transient reactance apply strictly to salient laminated pole alternators without amortisseur winding. However, such experience as is recorded in Table IV, if analyzed in connection with theoretical considerations, affords a basis for estimating the transient reactance of turbine generators with massive steel rotors and of salient-pole machines with amortisseur windings. These points are summed up in “Summary and Conclusions”. An attempt is made to describe the apparently complicated physical phenomena of sudden short circuits in terms as free as possible from mathematics. One interesting and important point which the authors establish from the physical interpretation of the problem is that there is a very significant rise in flux at the bottom of the pole at short circuit. This may be (if the rotor is entirely laminated) 30 or 40 per cent of normal flux, and apparently explains why, in machines with solid steel rotor rims, the field attenuation factor, αf, changes radically after the first few cycles after short circuit."
"It is already a trite saying that this is a war of engineering and science. Yet it is a question whether the average person, or indeed whether even the technically qualified man whose work has been concentrated in a particular field, can realize in how large a sense these words are true. To do so he must survey the vast engineering achievements of the Entente and the Central Powers, and appreciate what countless details they involve and how far their ramifications extend into apparently unrelated fields. At the same time his view must embrace the wide expanse of medicine and hygiene, and the still wider operations of agriculture and the many industries without which the war could not go on. Nor must he be content with this sweeping view, comprehensive though it may seem. For inextricably united with the results achieved by men habitually concerned with the arts, he will find the no less important contributions of investigators in the mathematical, physical, and biological sciences, whose previous efforts have been devoted solely to the advancement of knowledge. Science and the arts have once more united their endeavors, to the advantage of the national defense and to the still greater advantage, let us hope of future national welfare."
"The 339th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be an intersection meeting, in Pittsburgh, April 9, and in New York, April 12, 1918. The Pittsburgh meeting will be held in the Chamber of Commerce Building, Pittsburgh, at 8:00 p. m., and the New York meeting at the Engineering Societies Building, at 8:15 p. m."
"May Meeting: The May meeting will be the Annual Business Meeting held at Institute headquarters, New York. At this meeting the annual report of the Board of Directors will be presented, and announcement made of the Election of officers for the ensuing year. The feature of chief interest at this meeting will be the ceremonies in connection with the presentation of the Edison Medal. A committee has been appointed to arrange the details of the presentation ceremonies and the complete program will be published in the May Proceedings"
"The 338th meeting of the Institute was an intersection meeting held in the Electrical League Club Rooms, Hotel Statler, Cleveland, Ohio, March 8, in which the Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Toledo, Toronto and Detroit Sections of the Institute participated. Papers were presented at two technical sessions."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Hotel Statler, Cleveland, O., on March 8, 1918."
"(Extracts from a statement issued in February 1918 by Engineering Council) Engineering Council is an organization of national technical societies of America created to provide for consideration of matters of common concern to engineers, as well as those of public welfare in which the profession is interested, in order that united action may be made possible. Engineering Council is now composed of the American Society of Civil Engineers, American Institute of Mining Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers and American Institute of Electrical Engineers, having a membership of 33,000 and known as the Founder Societies."
"The following appeal for increased compensation of professional engineers and engineering assistants (distinguished from locomotive enginemen and other operatives of engines also called engineers) is an extract from a letter of February 28, 1918 by Engineering Council through Alfred D. Flinn, Secretary, to the Railroad Wage Commission appointed by the Director General of Railroads."
"This regiment, originally known as the First Engineer Reserve, will be remembered as the one recruited in New York City through the efforts of the Joint Military Committee of the National Engineering Societies. It was sent to England in August, 1917, and, after a few days, forwarded to France and attached for immediate service to the British Expeditionary Force, without any opportunity for further field-training. This circumstance has led in some quarters to the impression that the regiment was one of engineers and mechanics merely, and had never been drilled under arms; whereas, in fact, it had received such instruction at Fort Totten for some time previous to its embarkation. It is true that in the famous affair of the German counter-attack after Byng's victory near Cambrais, the men of the Eleventh Engineers fought with pick-axes and tools, as well as with rifles borrowed from dead or wounded soldiers; but that was because they had left their own arms in camp, while doing the railroad-building work to which they had been detailed. The accomplishment of that work is really more remarkable than the behavior of the men under a German surprise-attack."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Army and Navy service with the United States and her Allies. This list supplements those published in the four preceding numbers of the Proceedings and includes only those members who are in the armed forces and who have responded to the War Service card sent to the membership on Sept. 15, 1917, or have otherwise communicated with Institute headquarters. Members in Army and Navy service who have not been listed are requested to furnish the Institute with their proper military designation."
"Engineers desiring to be of service to the Government will find an opportunity by bringing to the attention of young technical men, artisans, and others who may be interested in enlisting in an engineering unit, the organization at Washington Barracks, D. C., on December 14, 1917, of the First Replacement Regiment of Engineers, the specific purpose of which is to keep all engineering units of the Army at full enlistment strength during the period of the war. This regiment has not only the responsibility of finding men to fill up depleted ranks in the various units, but it must also fit the men to step into the work of trained, efficient and disciplined soldiers."
"On March 4, 1918, the following message was received by President Rice of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. “To President, American Institute Electrical Engineers, New York. The Associasione Elettrotecnica Italiana visiting wireless station, Rome, send greetings to the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, with full confidence of final victory for the Allies. Semenza, President.”"
"Chicago. — February 25, 1918, Western Society of Engineers. Subject: Electric Furnaces. Papers: (1) “Resistance-Type Furnaces of Large Capacity,” by Thaddeus Bailey; (2) “Arc-Type Electric Furnaces,” by John A. Seede. Attendance 221."
"Anderson, Adrien Louis, Electrical Engineer, Federal Telegraph Co., Palo Alto; res., Stanford University, Cal."
"Edward W. Stevenson, a cable specialist, was lost in the Florizel disaster. Mr. Stevenson has been supplying the British government since the war began with insulated wire and cable, and storage batteries and it was while on a trip in connection with this business that he lost his life. Through this death the electrical industry lost one of its pioneers. From 1880 to 1886 Mr. Stevenson was in the employ of the Telegraph Construction and Maintenance Company of London and for two years thereafter with the Commercial Cable Company. In 1889 he took charge of the Brush Electric Illuminating Company of New York. Later he was connected with the Okonite Company and the Hazard Manufacturing Company. In 1913 he became sales agent for Smith and Nicolls, manufacturers of wires. Mr. Stevenson became an Associate of the A.I.E.E. in 1903 and was advanced to the grade of Member in 1912."
"W. G. Gordon has resigned from the Canadian General Electric Company, with whom he has held the position of Transportation Engineer for over four years, and is entering into partnership with Theo. Malm in the Railway and Power Engineering Corporation, and in Malm, Gordon & Company, engineers. Mr. Gordon is an engineer of very wide experience in connection with city, interurban and trunk line electrification in this and foreign countries."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made. These are taken either from the preface or the text of the book. All the books listed may be consulted in the Engineering Societies Library."
"Opportunities. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the Bulletin should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number in dicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"LAST year you were privileged to listen to an account of recent experimental observations in connection with atomic phenomena, I may say some of the fundamental facts of the physical world, coupled with an account of the way some of these facts are now generally interpreted in terms of “Radiation and Atomic Structure.” The interpretation was principally in terms of the current Rutherford-Bohr theory of the atom."
"This paper shows methods and derives formulas for the determination of the fields, the stator and rotor magnetizing currents, and the tertiary voltages for phase converters and single-phase induction motors at no-load. Previous publications on this subject, including text books, are usually rather vague and incomplete, especially with regard to the secondary magnetizing currents and the field forms. Furthermore, numerous conflicting statements are found in previous literature, thus leaving the subject, as a whole, in a rather confusing condition. This paper treats a large number of different cases along similar lines, thereby coordinating and explaining many phenomena previously observed, and it should, therefore, form a desirable basis for further investigations and discussion of this subject matter. The treatment of all cases is rather uniformly based on the following fundamental considerations. The sum of all e.m.fs. must be zero in both the primary and secondary circuits. With the impressed primary e.m.f. known, this leads to definite conditions governing the primary counter e.m.fs. The same law applied to the secondary circuits gives the condition that the induced voltages must be equal and opposite to the ohmic drops. Having thus certain laws governing the voltages to be induced in the windings, we have at once certain laws governing the fluxes for inducing these voltages. In most cases, it is then found, that only a single definite local distribution of the resultant field satisfies both the conditions for the primary and secondary windings simultaneously; having thus established the required resultant field distribution, we have at once laws for the required resultant distribution of ampere turns around the circumference to bring about such field distributions. Whenever certain portions of the circumference have conductors of either the primary winding or secondary winding alone, the resultant ampere turns found represent at once the ampere turns for the single winding located at this portion. With this fact known, a number of facts regarding the currents can be determined. Whenever both primary and secondary turns coincide at the same portion of the circumference, certain problems arise in determining the distribution of the resultant ampere turns between the two windings. A number of different considerations are used for the various cases to assist in the solution of these problems; all these considerations are, however, based on simple facts. In order to demonstrate the method by means of the simplest mathematics, two cases of small practical application are given first merely in order to separate the fundamentals from a rather large amount of mathematics which, while necessary, in connection with the more practical cases, are of little value in connection with the understanding of the fundamental principles. Starting out from these simple cases, the influence of various factors are taken up in the following cases, one at a time, because a simultaneous consideration of all of them make a clear understanding practically impossible. The paper is arranged so that it can be read to good advantage without going through those mathematical parts marked by vertical rules. By reading the conclusions at the end of the paper, a fair idea of the principal points brought out in the paper can be obtained."
"This paper covers a method of studying the actions of the single-phase induction motor, which the writer has found to be very convenient from the educational standpoint. It is based upon the assumption of two equal and oppositely rotating primary magnetomotive forces combined with a synchronously rotating secondary m. m. f., such as would be produced by direct current excitation. It follows that there is a resultant rotating primary field just as in the polyphase motor, while in the secondary there are two currents, one of low frequency, corresponding to the polyphase motor, and the other of nearly double the primary frequency. Diagrams and descriptions are given to illustrate the magnetomotive forces and fluxes, showing how, among other conditions, two oppositely rotating fields of unequal value may be possible. The next step is a consideration of e. m. f. generation by two oppositely rotating fields, showing how both must be taken into account. The effects upon the counter e. m. f. and excitation, of the reduction or suppression of one field is shown. This illustrates, in a simple manner, why the excitation on single-phase must be practically the same as on polyphase at full speed and falls to one-half value at standstill. The full-load conditions are next considered. A comparison is made between a two-motor unit, consisting of two similar polyphase motors coupled together and connected for opposite rotation, and the straight single-phase induction motor. Various discrepancies are pointed out between the resultant action of the two-motor unit and the single-phase. Modifying conditions are then taken into account which remove the discrepancies. This is followed by a considerable amount of test data which illustrate the principles and actions described in the paper."
"The 342nd meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, which was postponed from October 11–12, will be held in Philadelphia, December 13–14, 1918. The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors will be held at 10:30 o'clock Friday morning at the Bellevue Stratford Hotel."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, November 8, 1918, at 3:30 p. m."
"The 343rd, meeting of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York on November 8, 1918. The meeting was held under the auspices of the Industrial and Domestic Power Committee."
"The 344th meeting of the Institute was held in Toronto on November 22nd and 23rd. There was a total attendance of 150 members and visitors including 30 from points outside of Ontario. Mr. A. H. Hull, the Chairman of the Section, presided in the absence of the President. An informal reception and luncheon for the visiting members was held at the Engineers' Club of Toronto, after which the Chairman called the meeting to order in the Auditorium of the Club House."
"“The Study of Engineering Education” is the title of a report just issued by the Joint Committee on Engineering Education representing the principal engineering societies. The Committee is composed of representatives of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, American Society of Civil Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, and the American Chemical Society. After considerable work had been done by the Committee it became apparent that the work could best be carried out by the employment of someone who could devote his entire attention to the study and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching agreed to bear the expense of the study and appointed Prof. Charles R. Mann of the University of Chicago who continued the work under the general direction of the Committee and in touch with it. Prof. Mann's report which is very complete is contained in a pamphlet of 134 pages and which also includes a discussion of the report by the Joint Committee on Engineering Education. The report is divided into three general parts; (1) covering present conditions in engineering schools (2) discussion of the general problems of engineering education, and, (3) suggested solutions. The report is published by the Carnegie Foundation, 576 Fifth Avenue, New York City, from which copies can be obtained."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Army and Navy service with the United States and her Allies. This list supplements those published in the last twelve numbers of the Proceedings and includes only those members who are in the armed forces and who have responded to the War Service card sent to the membership, or have otherwise communicated with Institute headquarters. Members in Army and Navy service who have not been listed are requested to furnish the Institute with their proper military designation."
"Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute of Alabama has suffered a very serious loss in the destruction by fire of the Trades Building. It would cost at present $250,000 to replace the building, only half the value of which was covered by insurance."
"Boston. — November 5, 1918, Engineers Club. Paper: “Interconnection of Massachusetts Electric Light and Street Railway Companies” by L. L. Elden. Attendance 60."
"Brenneis, August Francis, Electrical Sub-inspector, Testing Lab., Navy Yard; res., 444 W. 162nd St., New York, N. Y."
"Prof. Thomas W. Fitzgerald, who has been head of the department of electrical engineering at the University of Arizona for the last four years has resigned to take charge of construction, and electrical maintenance for the Ray Consolidated Copper Company at Hayden, Arizona and to act in a Consulting capacity for the Company at Ray, Arizona."
"Frank I. Parker of the Cutler Hammer Mfg. Co. died at his home in Milwaukee, Wis. on October 18 of the effects of pneumonia contracted through Spanish influenza. Mr. Parker was a graduate of Wisconsin University, immediately entering the employ of the Cutler-Hammer Co. in the Magnet and Clutch Dept. In 1911 he assumed charge of the Sales Service work of this department. Mr. Parker became an Associate of the Institute in 1910 and a Member in 1913."
"Opportunities. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the Bulletin should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Societies do not assume responsibility for any statements made; these are taken from the preface or the text of the book. All the books listed may be consulted in the Engineering Societies Library."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The author describes the electrification of the tunnel through Mt. Royal at Montreal which was built to give the Canadian Northern Railway entrance into the heart of the city. The tunnel emerges from the mountain several feet above the level of the city and it is proposed to extend an elevated line at the same uniform grade to connect with the proposed viaduct on the lines of the Harbor Commission. The tunnel is 3.1 miles long and the method of construction is described in detail. The power is purchased and delivered to a substation near the west portal of the tunnel. The equipment of the substation is described. At present there are six electric locomotives in operation having a one-hour rating of 1280 h.p., and it is proposed to add multiple unit motor cars for handling the local traffic. Details of the equipment and dimensions of both the locomotives and motor cars are given. The catenary system, which is described in detail, has a number of unusual features due to special local conditions and the extremely low temperatures which sometimes prevail in Montreal."
"The following symposium presented at a meeting of the San Francisco Section deals exclusively with Pacific Coast conditions, but the problems presented are very important ones and are worthy of study by anyone interested in hydroelectric power development. The utilization of water powers and the interconnection of power systems are closely associated with the present necessity for fuel conservation."
"THE subject that is to be discussed this evening is of the utmost importance not only to the people of this State, but to the entire nation because it has to do with the conservation of one of our most valuable resources, viz., fuel oil."
"THIS review covers generally the situation with reference to the present and future production and transmission of electrical energy by the four largest companies of Northern and Central California."
"THE proposed interconnection of the California Oregon Power Company with the other power companies of California would be made through the system of the Northern California Power Company to the lines of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company near Colusa. The Northern California Power Company has already a connection with the system of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company at Chico, and delivers from 8000 to 10,000 kw. which is the limit of the available line capacity of both companies at this point."
"IN so far as it is of interest from the standpoint of interconnection, the system of the Sierra and San Francisco Power Company consists essentially of the following elements:"
"The 338th meeting of the A. I. E. E. which will be held in Cleveland, March 8, is an intersection meeting in which the Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Toledo, Toronto and Detroit Sections of the Institute will participate."
"The sixth annual midwinter convention of the A. I. E. E. was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on the 15th and 16th of February, 1918. The attendance was about 400."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters on Thursday evening, February 14, 1918, at 8:00 p. m."
"For the year 1917 the noteworthy occurrences are the creation of Engineering Council, the completion of the addition to the Engineering Societies Building and the occupation by the American Society of Civil Engineers of the space thus provided for it, the addition of 67,000 volumes from the Civil Engineers Library to Engineering Societies Library; the election as Director of the Library of Harrison W. Craver, formerly of the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh, and the election of Alfred Douglas Flinn to serve the United Engineering Society, the Engineering Foundation and Engineering Council jointly as their secretary, with offices in Engineering Societies Building, and to undertake the new duties January 1, 1918."
"The Library Board of the United Engineering Society has published its annual report for 1917 to the United Engineering Society and the Founder Societies. It may be briefly summarized as follows:"
"The Adjutant General of the U. S. Army has established in connection with the work of the War Department the War Service Exchange, which will serve as a clearing house to which men desiring to serve the Government may apply for information as to openings in the War Department. The Exchange is also charged with finding experts for the special needs of the Staff Corps."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Army and Navy service with the United States and her Allies. This list supplements those published in the three preceding numbers of the Proceedings and includes only those members who are in the armed forces and who have responded to the War Service card sent to the membership on Sept. 15, 1917, or have otherwise communicated with Institute headquarters. Members in Army and Navy service who have not been listed are requested to furnish the Institute with their proper military designation."
"The purpose of the Professional Classes War Relief of America is to afford relief, not only to professional men whose incomes are cut off through war conditions, but also to the dependants of professional men who are killed or incapacitated in service."
"There was never a time in the history of the world when work was more needed and when talking is only justified which may help forward the great work which is at hand. We all know what that great job is — the winning of the war. Everything else must wait and take a back seat until that job is done."
"The Joint Committee on Inductive Interference, organized in December, 1912, by the California Railroad Commission and authorized to conduct an investigation of the problem of inductive interference to communication circuits by parallel power circuits has completed its work, after continuously investigating this subject for over five years, at a cost of over $100,000, borne jointly by the interested railroad, power, and communication companies and the California Railroad Commission."
"Boston. — February 5, 1918, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Smith Hall. Paper: “The Present Trend of Technical Education,” by Walter I. Slichter. Attendance 60."
"Becker, Alfonse N., Erecting Engineer, Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Co.; res., 1367 Holton St., Milwaukee, Wis."
"C. E. Bennett has accepted the position of Assistant to Chas. G. Adsit, Consulting Engineer, Georgia Railway and Power Co., Atlanta, Ga."
"Vacancies. The Institute is glad to learn of desirable vacancies from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Men Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the Bulletin should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made. These are taken either from the preface or the text of the book. All the books listed may be consulted in the United Engineering Society Library."
"MEMBERS of the electrical profession and industry have reason to be pleased with the contributions which they have made for the benefit of the world. While we are glad to think that our science and our industry are fundamentally devoted to the products and conditions of peace, we realize that in the electric light, searchlights, the X-ray, telephones, telegraph, wireless apparatus, electric motors, etc., electricity plays an important part in the grim business of war."
"In a previous paper presented at the 10th Annual Convention of the Association of Iron and Steel Electrical Engineers the author made some suggestions, based on many years experience in designing underground distribution systems, for the guidance of engineers interested in this class of work. The previous article treated the subject only in a general manner; the object of this article is to show each step necessary in the design of an underground distribution system, such as is usually required in a medium size city. No two systems are entirely alike. The operating conditions and municipal requirements are different in every locality, it is impossible, therefore, to make any definite rules that will apply under all conditions. By assuming the average conditions met with in the smaller cities it is possible to show the fundamental principles of handling this work in a systematic manner. While systems may, and do, differ, still it is possible to design a system for any type of distribution if these principles are followed. Where costs are given they are based on normal conditions and should not be taken as being the present costs, they are used simply for comparison however and will be of value in that manner only, and if treated as percentage difference will apply under any reasonable conditions. Owing to lack of space no tables have been printed in this article as they can be found in electrical handbooks."
"The author describes manipulators for blooming mills, which consist of side guards and lifting fingers, the former being used to guide the bloom into the proper groove in the rolls while the latter are used for turning the bloom over. The functions, mechanical layout and operation of these manipulators are described, from which conclusions are drawn as to the size and type of motors as well as the type of control best suited for driving these auxiliaries."
"A consideration in detail of electric drive for rolling mills, including classification of mills and motors, mathematical determinations of energy required for rolling, relation of speed to tonnage, motor capacity and flywheel application."
"The Thirty-Fourth Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held June 26–28, at Atlantic City, N. J. Institute headquarters will be at the Marlborough-Blenheim Hotel, where the technical sessions will be held. Members are requested to register promptly at headquarters which will open Wednesday morning at 9.00 o'clock for that purpose."
"The annual meeting of the A.I.E.E. was held at the Institute headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York, on May 17, 1918 at 8.30 p. m. The meeting was called to order by President E. W. Rice, Jr., who called upon Secretary Hutchinson to present the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. This report which was distributed at the meeting was briefly abstracted by Secretary Hutchinson. The report is published in full elsewhere in this issue."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held at Institute headquarters New York, on May 17, 1918, at 3:30 p. m."
"This Committee, which is a subcommittee of the Standards Committee, was appointed by the Institute at the request of Rear-Admiral Griffin, Chief of the Bureau of Steam Engineering to assist the Navy Department in the solution of problems relating to wires and cables, with special reference to the high-tension cables to be used on the new electrically-driven warships."
"EXECUTIVE ORDER The National Research Council was organized in 1916 at the request of the President by the National Academy of Sciences, under its congressional charter as a measure of national preparedness. The work accomplished by the council in organizing research and in securing cooperation by military and civilian agencies in the solution of military problems demonstrates its capacity for larger service. The National Academy of Sciences is therefore requested to perpetuate the National Research Council, the duties of which shall be as follows:"
"The Franklin Institute through the action of its Committee on Science and the Arts has awarded the Edward Longstreth Medal of Merit to Major J. B. Whitehead for his paper on “The Electric Strength of Air and Methods of Measuring High Voltage,” appearing in the April 1917 issue of the Journal of the Franklin Institute."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Army and Navy service with the United States and her Allies. This list supplements those published in the last six numbers of the Proceedings and includes only those members who are in the armed forces and who have responded to the War Service card sent to the membership on Sept. 15, 1917, or have otherwise communicated with Institute headquarters. Members in Army and Navy service who have not been listed are requested to furnish the Institute with their proper military designation."
"The University of Illinois offers a course in Radio Communication during the Summer Session of 1918, for men who wish to prepare themselves for research and development work or for field service in the Signal Corps of the Army. Instruction will begin Monday, June 17 and will continue until August 9. The assigned work will require the full time of the student registering. It it especially important that those who register should be well grounded in Physics and in Mathematics, including differential and integral calculus."
"Baltimore. — April 12, 1918, Johns Hopkins University. Paper: “Some Notes on Power Station Operation and Maintenance” by Alex E. Bauhan. Paper was illustrated by charts and lantern slides. Attendance 28."
"Ambrose, F. B., Republic Railway & Light Co., 1306 Mahoning Bank Bldg.; res., 609 Parkwood Ave., Youngstown, Ohio."
"William Baum, who has been Dean of the School of Engineering of Milwaukee for the last two years has resigned his position to become research engineer for The Milwaukee Electric Railway & Light Co., which office has been newly created. This change is due to Professor Baum's desire to re-enter the industrial field."
"Prof. F. R. Hutton, past-president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, died on May 14 at the age of sixty-five years. Professor Hutton was graduated from the School of Mines, Columbia University, 1876. He held various positions on the faculty of Columbia and in 1892 became head of the mechanical engineering department which he continued to direct until his resignation in 1907 at which time he was elected Professor Emeritus. Professor Hutton became secretary of the A.S.M.E. in 1883. He declined reelection in January 1906 and in the following December was elected president. He was a member of the conference and building committee of the United Engineering Society, which committee was organized to plan the Engineering Society's Building at 29 West 39th Street, New York. In addition to numerous other activities Professor Hutton was an author, lecturer and extensive contributor to the technical press."
"Opportunities. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the Bulletin should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made. These are taken either from the preface or the text of the book. All the books listed may be consulted in the Engineering Societies Library."
"The oxide film arrester is a new type of lightning arrester made up of a film of insulation in contact with a conducting powder. Upon the application of over-voltage, the insulation will be pierced, but the powder will very rapidly turn into insulation and plug any holes punctured in the original insulation by the over-voltage, thus forming in substance a resealing insulation. A brief description of this arrester is given together with the principles underlying its action and a comparison with other types of lightning arresters. Mention is also made of other characteristics of this combination which are not used in the present arrester, but which are being applied in other developments. A few notes of tests on the commercial arrester complete this paper. With the exception of the basic patents issued to the author this is the first time any disclosure has been made of this arrester."
"A short history of lightning protection of electric systems is given, as relating to the three successive types of electric circuits; the communication circuits, the power circuits of negligible electrostatic capacity, and the high power circuits containing distributed capacity and inductance and capable of electric oscillation, leading to the three problems of discharging over-voltage to ground, opening the power current which follows the discharge and discharging so that no power current follows even for a fraction of a half wave. It is shown that these problems are solved by the spark gap to ground, by the use of non-arcing metals in the multigap arrester, which opens the circuit at the end of a half wave of current, and by the so-called “counter e.m.f.” type of arrester, represented by the aluminum cell and the oxide film arrester. It is shown that the necessity of taking care of recurrent discharges in high-power systems had led to the universal adoption of the aluminum cell arrester in such systems, in spite of its disadvantage of requiring daily attendance in charging, and of containing an electrolyte and oil. In the oxide film arrester a type of arrester is presented which has the same characteristics and therefore the same advantages as the aluminum cell arrester, but does not require daily attendance and contains no liquids. Its method of operation is explained, and its difference from the aluminum cell arrester; the dielectric film, which punctures under the discharge, and reseals after the discharge, is formed from the solid materials between the terminal plates, compressed PbO2, and therefore no spontaneous chemical action occurs which dissolves the film, as in the aluminum cell, in which the film forms from the aluminum electrode, gradually dissolves, and therefore requires daily charging. A short description of the construction of the oxide film arrester is given, a record of its operation in industrial service for over three years, and oscillograms showing the performance of this arrester under recurrents, oscillations and under high-power impulses."
"This paper deals with the problem of supplying high-tension electric service where conditions do not permit of the use of open wire or underground circuits. The methods of overcoming difficulties incidental to providing for high-tension service are discussed in detail, together with a description of the types of cable used and methods of installation. The experience of a large central station company operating several hundred miles of overhead and underground cable is given and the paper brings out the fact that the type of construction described may be used advantageously for both 13,200- and 26,400-volt service."
"The paper first gives a summation of the items that are apparently the main causes of pin-type insulator failures in service. Each item is thereafter briefly discussed and the opinions of operating men are cited. A brief description is given of the method used to determine the form of the dielectric field about porcelain insulators under normal line voltage. Diagrams of the dielectric field and photographs of flash over tests of theoretical designs are shown. Thereafter, the necessary modifications of the theoretical designs, in order to meet operating and manufacturing conditions, are discussed. In the latter part of the paper, diagrams and illustrations are shown of a proposed type of commercial insulator design which has been evolved by linking together the theoretical and practical phases of the problem. A comparison is then made between the older types of design and the proposed type, as regards the resistance of each to the conditions that cause failure of the insulator in service. In conclusion, a summary is made of the advantages it is believed that the new type of design has over the present commercial insulator designs."
"The gist of the paper is to demonstrate that the economical utilization of the country's energy supply requires generating electric power wherever hydraulic or fuel energy is available, and collecting the power electrically, just as we distribute it electrically. In the first section a short review of the country's energy supply in fuel and water power is given, and it is shown that the total potential hydraulic energy of the country is about equal to the total utilized fuel energy. In the second section it is shown that the modern synchronous station is necessary for large hydraulic powers, but the solution of the problem of the economic development of the far more numerous smaller waterpowers is the adoption of the induction generator. However, the simplicity of the induction generator station results from the relegation of all the functions of excitation, regulation and control to the main synchronous station. The economic advantage of the induction generator station is, that its simplicity permits elimination of most of the hydraulic development by using, instead of one large synchronous station, a number of induction generator stations and collecting their power electrically. The third section considers the characteristics of the induction generator and the induction-generator station, and its method of operation, and discusses the condition of “dropping out of step of the induction generator” and its avoidance. In the appendix the corresponding problem is pointed out with reference to fuel power, showing that many millions of kilowatts of potential power are wasted by burning fuel and thereby degrading its energy, that could be recovered by interposing simple steam turbine induction generators between the boiler and the steam heating systems, and collecting their power electrically. It is shown that the value of the recovered power would be an appreciable part of that of the fuel, and that organized and controlled by the central stations, this fuel power collection would improve the station load factor, give the advantages of the isolated plant without its disadvantages, and produce a saving of many millions of tons of coal."
"The equipment developed for the protection of direct-current apparatus as described in this paper is applicable to all direct-current apparatus and all methods of operation. Special means of protection for use only with particular apparatus or conditions of operation have not been mentioned. The principal steps in the experimental development of high-speed circuit breakers and flash barriers are briefly given. The protection afforded by the high-speed breaker or barriers is sufficient for most apparatus and service, but complete protection for any direct-current apparatus and service requires both the high-speed breaker and flash barriers. Attention is directed to the importance of arranging the connections to the brush rigging so that the magnetic action on the arc will be a minimum, and properly directed, so the flash will do the least damage."
"In the introduction a general discussion of unsymmetrical systems of co-planar vectors leads to the conclusion that they may be represented by symmetrical systems of the same number of vectors, the number of symmetrical systems required to define the given system being equal to its degrees of freedom. A few trigonometrical theorems which are to be used in the paper are called to mind. The paper is subdivided into three parts, an abstract of which follows. It is recommended that only that part of Part I up to formula (33) and the portion dealing with star-delta transformations be read before proceeding with Part II. Part I deals with the resolution of unsymmetrical groups of numbers into symmetrical groups. These numbers may represent rotating vectors of systems of operators. A new operator termed the sequence operator is introduced which simplifies the manipulation. Formulas are derived for three-phase circuits. Star-delta transformations for symmetrical co-ordinates are given and expressions for power deduced. A short discussion of harmonics in three-phase systems is given. Part II deals with the practical application of this method to symmetrical rotating machines operating on unsymmetrical circuits. General formulas are derived and such special cases, as the single-phase induction motor, synchronous motor-generator, phase converters of various types, are discussed."
"The Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its Thirty-fourth Annual Report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1918. A General Balance Sheet showing the condition of the Institute's finances on April 30, 1918, together with other detailed financial statements, is included herein."
"As announced in the August issue of the Proceedings, the next regular meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Philadelphia, October 11 and 12, and will be a joint meeting of the A. I. E. E. and the American Physical Society. General arrangements of the meeting on behalf of the Institute are in charge of the Philadelphia Section."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute for the administrative year beginning on August 1, 1918, was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, August 13, at 3:00 p. m."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Army and Navy service with the United States and her Allies. This list supplements those published in the last eight numbers of the Proceedings and includes only those members who are in the armed forces and who have responded to the War Service card sent to the membership on Sept. 15, 1917, or have otherwise communicated with Institute head quarters. Members in Army and Navy service who have not been listed are requested to furnish the Institute with their proper military designation."
"In order to train the necessary personnel in Signal Work, the Committed on Education and Special Training of the War Department is establishing training detachments in electrical engineering and physics departments in many of the universities throughout the United States. Men qualified by experience and education will be given specialized courses in either radio electricity or telephone electricity. About half of the number required will be trained in radio work and one-half in telephone work. The training which these men should receive in radio is of such type that the instruction is given by combined physics and electrical engineering faculties of the different institutions. The training to be given the telephone electricians calls for electrical engineering instructors."
"The American Institute of Electrical Engineers has been requested to bring to the attention of its members who are British or of British origin, the appeal sent out by the British and Canadian Patriotic Fund, which is a permanent organization, incorporated under the laws, to carry on the task of relieving the dependents of the men who have joined the forces of the British Empire from the United States."
"Argo, George Gerri, Gen. Foreman, Station Construction, Toronto Hydro-Electric System, 226 Yonge St., Toronto, Ontario."
"Morton G. Lloyd, Electrical Engineer in charge of safety work in the Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C., has been appointed a member of the Electrical Committee of the National Fire Protection Association, to represent the Bureau."
"Remsen Bishop was killed in June, 1918 while serving in the Aviation Section of the American Expeditionary Forces. Mr. Bishop was formerly employed in the Electric Department of the Ford Motor Company at Detroit. He was elected to the grade of Associate in the A. I. E. E. in 1914."
"Opportunities. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months: during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the Bulletin should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made. These are taken either from the preface or the text of the book. All the books listed may be consulted in the Engineering Societies Library."
"ALL of the formulas are based on Maxwell's equation pull, in dynes $= {B^2\\ A \\over 8\\ \\pi}$ where B = flux density, in lines per sq. cm. A = cross section, in sq. cm. of the flux path in the gap between the pulling surfaces. This formula may be established in a simple manner for the case of a saturated magnetic circuit, as follows:"
"List of Symbols A Pole face area in square centimeters"
"This paper describes a new method of determining for any power system, what proportion of generation should be hydroelectric, and what steam, from the standpoint of economics. A method is outlined for obtaining a curve showing “Total cost per kilowatt-year for hydroelectric and steam power”, for any percentage combination of generation. With system load curve, fixed charges on steam and hydroelectric plants, cost of fuel and other steam energy charges all known quantities, this curve can readily be calculated, and one can see at a glance the limiting economical percentage of steam power for the given conditions."
"It is shown that the flux distribution in the airgap of a synchronous mac ine consists of a series of component distributions that are simple harmonic wave trains, either stationary or moving at constant velocities. Methods are suggested for determining the effects of slots and the saturation of the magnetic circuit on the magnitudes of these component distributions. Expressions for the voltage generated and the power developed thereby are given. The theory is applied to the operation of a three-phase, synchronous machine under different conditions of load, both qualitatively and quantitatively. A table of comparative calculated field currents is appended."
"The exacting demands of the present World War have given a tremendous impetus to the application of electric arc welding methods for making rapid repairs to a great variety of machinery and apparatus required in the successful conduct of the conflict. The British Admiralty has adopted the process extensively for ship construction including minor structural parts, caulking of. seams, and for partially eliminating riveted construction. At present the United States Shipping Board Emergency Fleet Corporation has an active Welding Committee working upon the application of electric welding with a view to ultimately producing merchant ships which will be largely built by welding instead of the present riveted construction. Probably the chief reasons for the apparent apathy of the general industrial world toward arc welding are the haphazard methods employed, using any kind of electrical equipment, any kind of wire for electrode material and any kind of laborer or general handy man as a welder. This situation is being gradually improved, owing to a number of articles appearing recently in the technical press which emphasize the proper methods for the execution of satisfactory welds, general methods of supervising and inspecting welding work, and the selection of proper electrical equipment."
"This method of testing may be indicated briefly as follows: A special current transformer or test ring is connected with its primary and secondary respectively in series with the primary and secondary of the current transformer under test. The number of turns in the secondary coil of the special current transformer is varied until the primary and secondary ampere turns of the special current transformer or test ring are equal to each other and show a balance. Then the ratio of turns in the special current transformer is the current ratio of the transformer under test. Of course, the primary and secondary ampere turns can never actually balance, because they are not exactly in step or opposition, but a point can be found where the vector difference between them is at right angles to one of them and this point is taken as the balance point. This actual minimum value of vector difference gives a measure of the phase difference between primary and reversed secondary amperes."
"The 343rd meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in New York, November 8th, 1918, at 8:15 p. m. on the Fifth Floor of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"The 344th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Toronto, Canada, November 22–23, 1918. The headquarters of the Institute for the meeting will be at the Engineers' Club of Toronto, 90 King Street, West. Members and guests will assemble at noon at the Club where an informal reception and registration will be held followed by luncheon of the Toronto Reception Committee and visiting members."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, October 11, 1918, at 2:30 p. m."
"Emergency war courses in Employment Management, for men and women are being conducted by the Government, in Boston, where Harvard, Boston University and M. I. T. are cooperating; in New York through the Bureau of Municipal Research; in Rochester at University of Rochester; in Pittsburgh Carnegie Institute and University of Pittsburgh cooperating; in Berkeley, Cal., at University of California; in Seattle at the University of Washington. Courses at the Universities of Cincinnati and Chicago are now being arranged for. Employers are invited to suggest men or women in their employ for these courses, which run from six weeks to two months. There are no tuition fees. Employers or individual applicants will be furnished complete information regarding the courses and entrance requirements by addressing Captain Boyd Fisher, Employment Management Division, War Industries Board, 717 Thirteenth St., N. W., Washington, D. C."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Army and Navy service with the United States and her Allies. This list supplements those published in the last eleven numbers of the Proceedings and includes only those members who are in the armed forces and who have responded to the War Service card sent to the membership, or have otherwise communicated with Institute headquarters. Members in Army and Navy service who have not been listed are requested to furnish the Institute with their proper military designation."
"The U. S. Navy Department has perfected plans for the induction into service from the Draft of a certain quota of men, each month. A considerable number of these men, having proper qualifications will receive training as officers. A school for this training, The U. S. Navy Steam Engineering School has been established at Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, N. J."
"Chicago. — October 1, 1918, Fullerton Hall. Illustrated address by Colonel Peter Junkersfeld on “Emergency Construction for the War Department in the United States.” Meeting under auspices of The War Committee of Technical Societies of Chicago. Attendance 350."
"Adams, William James, Jr., Electrical Engineer, Western Electric Co., 463 West St., New York; res., Irvington, N. Y."
"David A. Chapman, formerly Vice President of the Dangel Company and the Touraine Company of Boston, is now with the United States Shipping Board as Supervising Engineer in charge of the training of chief engineers for turbine driven ships. Headquarters at 173 Milk St., Boston, Mass."
"Richard F. Day, of Philadelphia, Pa. was killed at Clermont-Ferrand, France, September 25, 1918 while serving with the U. S. Air Service. Mr. Day was elected to the grade of associate in the A. I. E. E. on May 18, 1917."
"Opportunities. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the Bulletin should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Societies do not assume responsibility for any statements made; these are taken from the preface or the text of the book. All the books listed may be consulted in the Engineering Societies Library."
"This paper has been compiled by the Committee on Industrial and Domestic Power to give general information regarding the different classes of machinery used in the cement industry and the sizes and types of motor best adapted for the work. The paper gives, first, a brief description of the process. This is followed by an outline of the various kinds of machinery used together with data as to power requirements. The types of motor best suited to each application together with starting characteristics, overload capacity, torque and other features are indicated."
"The paper deals with some remarkable construction recently completed by the Shawinigan Water & Power Company near Three Rivers, Quebec. The St. Lawrence river is crossed by transmission line wires on a span of 4800 feet, being the longest span in the world. Due to necessities of navigation clearance, the towers are 350 feet high. The preliminary investigation leading to the adoption of this construction is outlined, and a general description is given of the design and construction of the towers, insulators and cables. The provisions for protection from ice and the method of sag calculations are also given."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The 336th meeting of the Institute as announced in the December Proceedings will be an intersectional meeting held in Boston, January 8th, New York, January 11th, and Chicago, January 14, 1918. The same paper will be presented and discussed at the three places."
"A meeting of Engineering Council was held on December 6th in the beautifully appointed new board room of the American Society of Civil Engineers, Engineering Societies Building, New York."
"In view of the great importance of engineering in the prosecution of the war, it is the general feeling among engineers that the best interest of the country both during the war and in the subsequent reconstruction period will be met by conserving to the greatest extent all the engineering talent and ability of the country."
"The cooperation of the Institute has been requested in the organization of the 37th Engineers (Electrical Mechanical). This regiment will be organized at Fort Myer, Va., and will be for the purpose of performing electrical installation, operation and maintenance in France."
"Electricians: The next training school for temporary specialists of the Coast Artillery Corps will be opened about March 4, 1918 Men who have had an electrical education equivalent to two years college work or who are thoroughly familiar with electricity and electrical apparatus and are now proficient in mathematics should apply for this course. They will be fitted for Electrician Sergeants, 2d Class who are charged with the care, operation and repair of electrical installations at Coast Artillery posts, which include power plants, telephone systems, searchlights, gasoline engines, cable repairs, etc. The monthly rate of pay is $44.00 for first enlistment, with promotion as vacancies occur to Electrician Sergeant, 1st Class at $51.00 per month; Engineer $71.00 per month, and Master Electrician at $81.00 per month. All rates of pay are in addition to clothing, quarters, subsistence, and medical attendance."
"On Friday evening December 7, 1917 a meeting under the auspices of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining Engineers, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the United Engineering Society was held in the auditorium of the Engineering Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, at which the American Society of Civil Engineers was formally welcomed into the Fraternity of the founder societies and the occupancy of the enlarged Engineering Societies Building."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters on Friday, December 14, at 3:30 p.m."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in Army and Navy service with the United States and her Allies."
"Baltimore. — November 9, 1917, John Hopkins University. Address by Prof. Jos. S. Ames on “Military Aeronautics” Attendance 130."
"Mr. D. J. Angus who has recently become associated with the Esterline Company of Indianapolis, as treasurer, takes the responsibility of the engineering department and of the design and development of new lines of instruments and apparatus."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made. These are taken either from the preface or the text of the book. All the books listed may be consulted in the United Engineering Society Library."
"Vacancies The Institute is glad to learn of desirable vacancies from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the Bulletin The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Men Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the Bulletin should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"The various frequencies used in alternating-current work in America are first mentioned, and the primary reasons for their introduction are given. This covers, to a certain extent, the merits and demerits of each frequency as then understood, and the reasons each one met certain pressing commercial conditions at the time it was brought out. This is followed by a discussion of various alternating current applications which were more or less dependent upon frequency. It is shown that there was an apparent need for two standard frequencies in the region of 60 and 25 cycles, and, further, why 60 and 25 cycles have prevailed. The special fields of application of each one are discussed fully and it is shown why 25 cycles tended to dominate the field. The persistent developments of the designing engineers gradually overcame the limitations in various types of 60-cycle apparatus so that eventually the 60-cycle system in its application approached more and more closely to the 25-cycle and, in the end, has taken the lead. The outcome of the battle of the frequencies was determined far more by the conditions in the operating field than by the exploitation of any particular system by designing engineers. As a consequence, the energies of the engineers were directed exclusively toward overcoming the defects and limitations of the systems and not expended in fighting each other."
"This paper comprises a consideration of the effects of war conditions as they apply to the electric light and power service of the country, but the principles enunciated relate in their broad application to all kinds of public utility service. The electric companies are facing a grave situation owing to the Government's needs and requirements, to the abnormal prices of labor, supplies and equipment, to the difficulty of retaining their trained employees, and to the present impossibility of satisfactorily financing extensions. Owing to these conditions the electric companies may be forced to regularly operate their systems, during the continuance of such conditions, with reduced reserve in capacity of equipment and with partially trained operating forces, with accompanying reduction in efficiency of operation and reliability of service as compared with normal conditions. It is shown that the increased cost for fuel and other supplies, labor and taxes alone, occasioned by the war conditions, would amount to an increase of more than $116,000,000 over the operating expenses that should have been expected for the electric light and power companies of the country under normal conditions for 1917. The important advantages which are inherent in the central electric power stations for supplying power for war manufactures and the advisability for the government to make every reasonable endeavor to encourage the development of the central electric stations is pointed out. To work out the situation to the best interests of the public and the companies will require earnest cooperation between the Government and the companies. Although the situation is one requiring the determination of how the electric companies can best meet the power requirements for war manufactures, yet the way in which the problems involved are worked out will have a bearing upon the cost of electric light and power service not only during the war but for long after its termination."
"Owing to the tremendous growth of the industry from the beginning, due not only to its novelty, but primarily to its human interest, the Pioneer Producers had their hands full in trying to supply the demand for motion pictures which was increasing by leaps and bounds from day to day, so that it was impossible to stop and give thought to the systematizing or standardization of production. The public found a new source of entertainment, and the public would not be denied. It would have its fill, and while the novelty of this eighth power of the world was upon them, they gave no thought to the quality. What they wanted was motion pictures galore, and the wise producers gave them what they wanted, and waxed rich thereon. They had found big profits on small investments, so they thought: Why not let well enough alone?"
"Along with the numerous developments in the past decade and more, in which the motion picture industry has rushed forward so fast and placed itself among the large and leading industries of the country, the Eastman Kodak Company has kept pace in the production of raw motion picture film in the quantities necessary to meet requirements without which the other advances would not have been possible. It is not the purpose of this paper to outline the various steps that have been taken to bring the manufacture of motion picture film to its present state of development, but rather to describe briefly its manufacture and point out the care required to make it uniform in quality."
"The motion picture theater is a permanent institution as is evidenced by the developments during the past two or three years. Hundreds of motion picture theatres have been built which are second to none of the legitimate with respect to size and appointments of interior and exterior. The productions, too, have kept pace with the theaters. These productions now depict on the screen picture plays costing hundreds of thousands of dollars and employ the best of theatrical talent as principals. The picture producing interests have invested fabulous sums in permanent studios fitted with every conceivable contrivance necessary for the production of practically any play and the innumerable feature incidents which occur in the lives of any and all people of this world."
"This article is presumed to deal with the projection machine enclosure, and to set forth, as briefly as may be, some of its more important requirements. It would, therefore, seem fitting that a short resume of the evolution of this enclosure, from a cloth walled affair to what it now is, will not be inappropriate."
"On several occasions upon being attracted to a theatre where color motion pictures were advertised we were disappointed upon finding them to be black and white hand-colored films. There is, therefore, a rather small difference, in words, between the films that I have started out to discuss and the other films with a similar name."
"Light radiates from every point of a source in all directions. If we had a very intense, and at the same time cold, point-shaped source, projection would be possible without any additional optical apparatus. Supposing we have such a source s separated by the distance d from a stencil t and at a distance D from the projection screen, the size of the image on the screen would be $\\frac{\\mathrm{D}}{\\mathrm{d}}$ times the actual size of the Stencil or, differently expressed, the magnification $\\mathrm{M}+\\mathrm{M}=\\frac{\\mathrm{D}}{\\mathrm{d}}$. The magnification may be changed in two ways: (a) By keeping the projection distance D constant and varying the distance between source and stencil. (b) By keeping the distance d the same and varying the projection distance."
"Among the further subjects that merit carefulattention by the Society of Motion Picture Engineers, there are probably none that present greater possibilities than those that may lead to the elimination of as much as is practicable of the unsteadiness or jumping of the picture on the screen."
"A paper presented before this Society entitled “Light Intensities for Motion Picture Projection” called attention to the many factors which enter into the determination of a suitable light intensity for the motion picture screen. Since this paper was presented, experience in the motion picture industry has shown the necessity of bringing to the attention of those interested in the development of the industry, through motion picture journals, conventions such as this, and through personal contact, a conception of the fundamentals of illumination measurement."
"At the last meeting in April at Rochester, your Society adopted a new size of narrow width, slow-burning film as the standard for all portable projectors. As the firm with which the writer is connected has had nearly five years of successful experience with a similar product, the Chairman of your Papers Committee has requested me to prepare and submit to you some actual facts of the advantages pertaining thereto."
"In the motion picture industry, as in every other modern industry, the trend in mechanical and technical matters is always towards increased efficiency combined with improvement in quality, and on the present occasion I bring to your notice the results of a comparative study of motion picture projection objectives from the standpoint of their defining properties and the efficiency with which they utilize the light source of the motion picture projector."
"When we turn back to the early pages of motion picture history, we come to the time when our pioneer producers began to look upon picture-making as an everyday and allday task, rather than an occasional diversion."
"Those of you who ventured into the new and untried, in the days when the motion picture was an undeveloped possibility, may recall that the first projectors were readily and easily portable. At that early stage of the industry, motion picture projectors were made as attachments to such types of optical lanterns as were then in use."
"In approaching the problem of applying suitable standards to appliances in common use in the motion picture industry, it is well to remember that the thing which may seem precisely right when viewed from the standpoint of theory may fail utterly under the crucial test of actual practice. This is particularly true where the appliance is to be placed in the hands of an incompetent man, or a man of mediocre ability."
"In the development of an incandescent lamp for motion picture service, it is essential to concentrate the light source as much as possible because no condensing system can collect and utilize the rays of light from an extended source. The problem that comes up is, therefore, that of getting as much filament as possible within a given area and arranging this filament in such a way that there will be maximum illumination in the direction in which it can be utilized."
"The fact that there are today in operation approximately one thousand motion picture machines using the tungsten filament lamp as a light source proves that the incandescent lamp is a success in this field. The history of the developments which were gone through to achieve this success is very interesting. Some of the lamps and apparatus, which a short time ago seemed marvelous, today appear almost crude. However, we shall not take your time to describe the discouragements and the achievements along this line during the past three years. Nor shall we devote much time to description of the fundamental differences between the are and the incandescent systems. This data is already more or less familiar to you, through papers presented before your Society, through articles in the trade journals, and through commercial advertising of the concerns manufacturing projection equipment."
