"Opportunities. — The Institute, is particularly anxious to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in this BULLETIN. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office files. Note. — Copy for publication in the BULLETIN should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” announcements should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters. Engineering Societies Employment Bureau. — This is a joint bureau under the auspices of the Engineering Council. The Institute's employment service is coordinated with that of the joint bureau."
"The library, which comprises the individual libraries of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, and the United Engineering Society, is located on the thirteenth and fourteenth floors of the Engineering Societies Building. In addition to engineering works it contains general reference books on allied sciences such as Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry. The library also contains publications of practically all the engineering societies in the world as well as current and bound sets of more than 1,000 engineering periodicals in English and other languages."
"COLONEL T. H. DILLON of the Engineers Corps of the United States Army, has resigned from the Army and accepted an appointment to a professorship of Electrical Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."
"CHARLES E. LORD, general patent attorney and manager of the patent department of the International Harvester Company, died on September 25 as the result of an automobile accident."
"Any reader knowing the present address of any of the following members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"ABBOTT, ROBERT L., Head of Testing Dept., Sprague Electric Works of Gen. Elec. Co., Bloomfield, N. J."
"The following report was presented at the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held in Philadelphia. October 10."
"The report of the Joint Conference Committee of the Development Committees of the four national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers is published below together with a letter from Professor Chas. F. Scott, Chairman of the A. I. E. E. Development Committee, transmitting the report to the Board of Directors of the Institute."
"This paper starts by showing that the limit of a single-unit turbo generator does not lie in the generator but is confined to the steam turbine, and that the last wheel of the turbine is the limiting feature. The author therefore takes the last wheel of an 1800-rev. per min. turbine, giving dimension stresses, kind of material used etc., and then designs two turbines, one having 23 stages and the other 13 stages, both machines using this last wheel, and shows that a turbine can be built having its most economical point at 21,000 kw., under steam conditions given in the paper. Under this condition the last stage absorbs 11.5 per cent of the total adiabatic available energy, and the wheel efficiency is 66.25 per cent. As the load increases, the work done in this stage also increases, so that at 36,000 kw. the energy is practically doubled, but with a sacrifice in efficiency of about 18 per cent, which naturally lowers the efficiency of the turbine as a whole. A 5000-kw., five-stage, 3600-rev. per min. turbine load curve is also given and discussed, and the author claims that if the construction could be made similar to the large turbine, keeping the same stresses and number of stages, a turbine of this capacity could be built as efficient as the larger machine at 20,000-kw."
"Output is determined broadly by rotor or stator dimensions. With speeds of 1200 rev. per min. and lower, the stator is the limiting member, while with higher speeds, the rotor is the limiting member. The most effective rotor diameter is not necessarily the largest diameter. To obtain maximum output at a given speed the rotor proportions must be chosen to properly balance mechanical stresses, rotor ampere turns and flux. American design practise has established 400 ft. per sec. as an upper limit of rotor peripheral speed. The maximum length of core is determined by such factors as ventilation, bearing temperatures, critical speed and limits to weight imposed by forging and transportation facilities. Fig. 4 shows present limits to kv-a. rating at speeds from 3600 to 900 rev. per min. These limiting values are given as indicating present boundaries to knowledge and experience, rather than as real physical or other limits that cannot be exceeded. Mechanical forces due to short-circuit current, and damage caused by armature winding failures, are no greater in the very large generators indicated by Fig. 4 than in present day 20,000 and 30,000 kv-a. units. No opinion is expressed as to the wisdom of installing very large single-shaft units. If operating engineers desire units of 50,000 to 100,000 kw., there is no question but that such generators can be conservatively designed and constructed."
"This paper will be restricted to a discussion of some of the factors which influence limits as applying particularly to turbines of the reaction type. With the employment of high vacua the limit of power will be determined largely by the area obtainable through the last stage-Limiting factors include: 1. Chosen maximum values of steam speed through the blades in order to keep the leaving losses within permissible limits. For highest efficiency the steam speed should be about 25 per cent greater than the blade speed, but in the last stages it is sometimes made 100 per cent greater as a compromise between efficiency and cost. Similarly the outlet angle of the blades is increased from 20 deg. to 35 deg. 2. Physical characteristics of materials employed and chosen limits to which these may be safely stressed. By varying the form of rotor construction stresses in it may usually be kept within necessary limits up to the point at which limiting stresses in the blades or blade fastenings are reached. For any given rotative speed and blade angle the steam capacity is directly proportional to the stress at the base of the blades regardless of the diameter and blade height. 3. Capacity limits of manufacturing facilities, increased bracing and clearances necessary to insure requisite rigidity and reliability, and capacity loss due to outages for inspection and repair. Fig. 6 shows maximum capacity at various speeds which are physically possible without exceeding present limits of stresses. It is valuable, chiefly as showing the physical relation between speed and capacity with given limiting stress values."
"In this paper the authors have endeavored to set forth briefly but clearly the history of the research and development work which has led up to the final production of successful telephone repeaters. The various forms of amplifiers which have been suggested are described and their possibilities and limitations pointed out. The essential properties of repeater networks together with the necessary line-conditions for successful repeater operation are described and illustrated. Tandem operation of repeaters is discussed as is also the use of repeaters in four-wire circuits. Illustrations are given showing a few of the more important repeater installations now in regular commercial service in the United States."
"The piezo electric effect is an electro-elastic property of certain crystals. It involves the conversion of mechanical into electrical energy, and also the converse effect. The paper presents an exposition of piezo-electricity and related optical and other properties belonging to these crystals. Special reference is made to the comparatively large piezo electric effects produced by Rochelle salt crystals prepared so as to develop the natural composite structure usually associated with substances which have been exposed to shearing stresses, in this case during growth. Applications of the piezo electric effect in such crystals to the transmission and reception of sound, are described and demonstrated."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The 345th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held on Friday evening, January 10, 1919, in the Auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, at 8:30 p. m. The subject of the meeting will be “Aeronautics,” and a lecture will be-given by Major General George O. Squier, Chief Signal Officer of the United States Army on “Aeronautics in the United States.” The lecture will include the developments in this field from the beginning of the war down to the present time and will be illustrated by moving pictures showing details of the processes of manufacturing airplanes and accessories. There will also be displayed several groups of models of certain equipment which has been developed by the Signal Corps during the period of the war."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Philadelphia, on Friday, December 13, 1918, at 10:30 a. m."
"The 342nd meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the Bellevue Stratford Hotel, Philadelphia, December 13, 1918, under the auspices of the Philadelphia Section."
"Baltimore. — November 11, 1918, Engineers Club. Illustrated address by President C. A. Adams on “Application of Electric Welding to Ship Building.” Attendance 100."
"ALWARD, ERNEST TURNBULL, Sales Engineer, Northern Electric Co.; res., 794 St. Urbain St., Montreal, Canada."
"MELDON H. MERRILL AND THOMAS B. SWEENEY announce the organization of the firm of Merrill, Sweeney & Co., engineers, managers and purchasing agents for public service properties, with offices at 50 State Street, Boston, Mass."
"HENRY E. RANDALL, JR., died from influenza on October 21 at Montreal, Canada. Mr. Randall graduated from M. I. T. in 1913 and then entered the employ of the Shawinigan Water and Power Co., first at Cedar Rapids and later at the companys' office in Montreal. He finally became power sales engineer and in October 1 severed his connection with the company to become general manager of the Ludlum Electric Furnace Corporation, the position he held at the time of his death. Mr. Randall was elected an Associate in the Institute in 1917."
"The employment service which has been maintained for many years by the Institute has satisfactorily met the demands upon it and has been greatly appreciated by the membership at large, many of whom have obtained desirable engagements through it. The individuals and industries seeking competent engineers have also been greatly benefited."
"Opportunities. — The Institute is glad to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the BULLETIN. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the BULLETIN should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Societies do not assume responsibility for any statements made; these are taken from the preface or the text of the book."
"Membership of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in service in the Army and Navy of the United States and the Allies in the World War."
"The paper gives a review of the work done during the past three years by a sub-committee of the Standards Committee of the Institute appointed to make recommendations for changes in the Institute's rules regarding the wave shape of alternators. After a very careful consideration of the question and a large amount of experimental work the Sub-Committee last spring made recommendations that for the present the ten per cent deviation rule should be retained without change (except in wording), and that trial use should be made of a supplementary wave shape factor. The new factor, based on the relation between voltage wave shape and interfering effect in telephone circuits, when power and telephone lines parallel each other, is called the “telephone interference factor.” The committee invites the broadest discussion and trial use of the new factor. No attempt will be made to decide upon limiting values of the factor until after wide experience shall have been obtained in its use, and the committee will welcome assistance on the part of any interested in collecting information to this end."
"THE Province of Ontario is the largest and most populous of the Provinces in the Dominion of Canada, having an area of 407,262 square miles and a population (census 1911) of 2,523,274. Ontario's population is about 35 per cent of the total of Canada's population, and its area is 10.9 per cent of the total area of the Dominion. Ten per cent of its area is water."
"A joint meeting of the A. I. E. E. and the A. P. S. will be held in Philadelphia at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel on Friday and Saturday, October 10–11, 1919."
"At the dinner given in honor of Mr. Charles LeMaistre, Secretary of the British Engineering Standards Association, by the American Engineering Standards Committee, the guest of the evening expressed the opinion that one of the strongest ties which can bind two or more nations together is engineering and industrial standardization."
"U. S. Topographic Map. — On July 1 the Chairman of Engineering Council addressed a letter to President Wilson, an abstract of which follows:"
"Opportunities. — The Institute, is particularly anxious to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in this BULLETIN. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office files. Note. — Copy for publication in the BULLETIN should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters. Engineering Societies Employment Bureau. — This is a joint bureau under the auspices of the Engineering Council. The Institute's employment service is coordinated with that of the joint bureau."
"The library, which comprises the individual libraries of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, and the United Engineering Society, is located on the thirteenth and fourteenth floors of the Engineering Societies Building. In addition to engineering works it contains general reference books on allied sciences such as Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry. The library also contains publications of practically all the engineering societies in the world as well as current and bound sets of more than 1,000 engineering periodicals in English and other languages."
"Clarence J. Berry who for the last six years has been connected with National Lamp Works of G. E. Company, Cleveland, has resigned and accepted a position as electrical engineer with Brandt and Fouilleret, Paris, France."
"Henry A. Reed, President of the Bishop Gutta Percha Company, died at his residence, 88 North 9th Street, Newark, N. J. on August 23. Mr. Reed in the earliest days of the electrical industry assisted Prof. Morse in his telegraph experiments. In 1887 he became associated with Bishop Gutta Percha Co. as Manager. Mr. Reed was elected an Associate in the Institute in 1889 and Member in 1913."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Unless otherwise indicated, the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for direat admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before October 31, 1919."
"To the Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers: The Washington office of the Engineering Council was established last January for the benefit of the engineering profession of America. This office is in contact with the various departments of the Government and keeps abreast of legislation relating to matters in which engineers are concerned in connection with the practise of their profession. It endeavors to keep the engineering profession prominently before the legislative and executive branches and seeks to secure the appointment of engineers to all those places which have engineering functions. Finally, it maintains a legislative and departmental service which is supplied to the technical press and to engineers individually. Any engineer who desires a copy of a bill or information upon any bill that is being discussed in Congress, or has need of data of any kind issued by a Government Bureau, has only to ask the Washington office for the information or material. These will be supplied, if available, and no charge will be made."
"The paper defines the state of the art of today which is the result of developments during the war. Transatlantic radio communication is at present maintained by five first class stations, two in America and three in Europe. These stations operate at wave-lengths between 12,500 and 17,000 meters. The range of wave-lengths suited for such traffic is rather limited, the desirable wave length being included between the limits of 10,000 to 20,000 meters. New developments indicate three methods for increasing the radio traffic without interference between the different messages. These methods are increase of the transmitting speed, closer spacing of wave lengths and directive reception. If these technical possibilities are intelligently used, the author predicts that radio communication will be equal to all demands that will be placed upon it. The second part of the paper describes the radio transmitting system for the development of which the author is responsible. This system is represented by the naval radio station, New Brunswick, N. J. and comprises new means for generating modulating, and radiating the continuous wave energy. The generator is the high-frequency alternator with which the author's name has become associated. The modulating system is the “magnetic amplifier” which is described in a paper by the author before the Institute of Radio Engineers. The “multiple antenna” system of radiation is described in this paper for the first time. The general theory and figures for the increased radiation efficiency are given. The author also predicts that the multiple antenna will make possible directive radiation on a large scale."
"Coil aerials are coming to replace the large antennas in radio work. The advantage of the coil aerial as a direction finder, interference preventer, reducer of strays and submarine aerial, make it important to know how effective such an aerial is as a transmitting and receiving device in comparison with the ordinary antenna. In this article the mathematical theory is presented and, as a result, the answer to this question is obtained. Experiments have verified the conclusions reached, and the formulas which are obtained are a valuable aid in the design of an aerial to fit any kind of radio station. A great many questions and hazy ideas on the behavior of radio waves are cleared up by the study which was made and here presented. It is found that the coil aerial is particularly desirable for communication on short wave lengths. A coil aerial is as powerful as an antenna only when its dimensions approach those of the antenna. For other reasons, however, a small coil aerial is in many cases as effective as a large antenna. It is shown that an advantageous type of radio aerial is a condenser consisting of two large metal plates. This type of aerial has many of the advantages of the coil aerial. The fundamental principles of design of aerials are given in this paper. On the basis of this work the actual functioning of any type of radio aerial can be determined either from measurements made upon the aerials or from actual transmission experiments. The investigation has opened up a large and most interesting field for further research and progress in the utilization of radio waves."
"This report discusses briefly the chief fundamental results obtained from the days of Faraday to the present time in studying the electromotive forces ordinarily referred to the domain of electromagnetic induction. Self-induction is first taken up, and the phenomena of self-induction are treated as essentially identical with the phenomena of inertia in dynamics, according to the idea of Maxwell and the idea originally accepted by Faraday. The only recent fundamental progress has been in studying the inertia of free electrons and other ions, and experiments on this subject are referred to. The motional electromotive force, developed when matter moves in a magnetic field, is next considered, and is derived from Ampere's law on the electron theory. Especial attention is devoted to the motional intensity, and the resulting electric displacement, in insulators, of which nothing has been known until recent years. The induced electromotive force in fixed conductors and insulators arising from the motion or alteration of other systems is next considered, and is expressed both in terms of magnetic flux and in terms of the general vector potential, which refers the phenomena back to the motion of electrons without the magnetic field as intermediary. The relations between the induced and motional electromotive forces are discussed, as well as the relation of the electric displacement produced in certain cases to the hypothesis of the fixed aether. The report closes with a treatment of unipolar induction in both so-called open and closed circuits, including brief descriptions of some of the principal experiments, a discussion of the theories involved, and their application to the unipolar generator."
"When a narrow beam of X-rays passes through a fine powder of any crystalline material, it produces on a photographic plate placed just behind the powder a pattern of concentric circles. These circles are produced by the reflection of the X-rays from the planes of atoms in the crystal, and their diameters are a measure of the distances between these planes of atoms. By measuring the diameters of the circles the exact positions of the atoms can be determined. The results of this analysis are given for twenty common metals and several salts, with examples and brief description of the method, and a discussion of the results."
"The first part of this article deals with the operation of the tube when separately excited, the variation of power with the amount of excitation, the load impedance, etc., and also gives an analysis of the forms and phases of voltages and currents in the different parts of the circuit. The second part deals with the efficiency of the tube as a generator; the action is analyzed in detail and the conditions for maximum efficiency deduced, the theoretically deduced conclusions being substantiated by experimental data. Oscillograms are given to show the action of the tube under practically all the conditions which are likely to occur."
"The Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute which has been announced to take place in Los Angeles, Cal., September 18–20, 1919, will be held under the auspices of the local section, and Vice-president John B. Fisken, of Spokane, Wash, has accepted an invitation to preside at the convention sessions."
"The Federal Power Bill which originated in the House was referred to the Senate and turned over to the Committee on Commerce on July 8th. The Senate has been waiting for the House to pass this bill before it began further active work on its water power bills."
"Baltimore. — June 5th, 1919, Engineers Club. Illustrated address by Dr. J. B. Whitehead on “Submarine Detection.” Attendence 90."
"Opportunities. — The Institute, is particularly anxious to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in this BULLETIN. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office files. Note. — Copy for publication in the BULLETIN should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters. Engineering Societies Employment Bureau. — This is a joint bureau under the auspices of the Engineering Council. The Institute's employment service is coordinated with that of the joint bureau."
"The library, which comprises the individual libraries of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, and the United Engineering Society, is located on the thirteenth and fourteenth floors of the Engineering Societies Building. In addition to engineering works it contains general reference books on allied sciences such as Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry. The library also contains publications of practically all the engineering societies in the world as well as current and bound sets of more than 1,000 engineering periodicals in English and other languages."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Unless otherwise indicated the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a higher grade than Associate the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before August 31, 1919."
"MAJOR J. R. WORTH, Construction Division, U. S. A. is stationed at Pittsburgh, Pa., c/o West Penn Power Co., Beedeedum Trees Bldg., as Government Constructing Quartermaster for three steam-electric plants. He will probably remain about a year."
"G. R. BAKER died at Jabl-us-Siraj, Afghanistan, on November 11, 1918 from the effects of typhoid-pneumonia. He was buried in British territory in Peshawer, India. Mr. Baker had been acting as first Assistant to the Chief Engineer of the Kabul Hydroelectric Scheme and just before his final illness had taken charge of the plant and was to remain as Chief Engineer in charge. He had been formerly in the employ of the General Electric Company as Construction Engineer and had worked on the Panama Canal installation, erected plants in Cuba and the Western States. He became an Associate in the Institute in 1915."
"The author presents a method for the determination of the order and percentage of the various components of an alternating wave of e. m. f., using indicating meters and other inexpensive apparatus. Two examples are given. Oscillograms are included to show interesting phenomena and to check the results of the calculations. The value of so-called standards for the indication of wave form is questioned."
"Notwithstanding the recent improvements in porcelain insulators, failures are sufficiently common so that allowance must be made for them. A certain factor of safety is required, in the shape of extra insulation, to provide for the electrical unreliability of the insulators themselves aside from conditions of abnormal operating stresses. There are a wide variety of operating conditions which affect the amount of over-insulation required, and after having found the minimum number of insulators per string required for any given operating conditions the author points out a method of determining the amount of extra insulation desirable from an insurance standpoint according to the law of probabilities. Equations are developed from which the probability of failure for any given case or the ratio between such probabilities for any pair of cases may be determined directly. A numerical example is also given which shows the development of the theory of minimum annual cost for combined mechanical and electrical failures."
"In order to operate two power plants satisfactorily in parallel, the transmission line which ties them together must have sufficient synchronizing power, as well as sufficient carrying capacity. The “synchronizing power” of a line depends upon its resistance and reactance, the bus voltages maintained at its ends, and the maximum kilovolt-amperes it must transmit. The ability of different lines to provide satisfactory parallel operation cannot be measured by any standard which does not take account of all of these factors. Limiting values for “synchronizing power” of lines under various operating conditions are given. The division of load between two plants in parallel is regulated by steam control; the division of wattless current associated with the load depends upon the voltages generated and may be in proportion to the division of real load, when the difference in voltage at the two busses will vary with the load transmitted, or may be arbitrary so that regardless of the load transmitted, the voltages on the two busses will be maintained constant. The latter plan generally gives better operating conditions on the system as a whole, but creates demands for wattless currents at either or both plants in excess of their normal capacity, and in so doing, involves an additional cost. The excess wattless crosscurrent so created can be materially reduced by varying the voltage with changes in load transmitted through the use of taps on the line transformers, by inserting additional reactance in the line at light loads, or, when the stations are tied together by several parallel lines, by cutting out one or more lines as the load decreases. The design of a transmission line involves a consideration of load to be transmitted, voltage, reactance, resistance, losses, and charging current of the line, and of wattless generating capacity at the receiving end of the line. The wattless generating capacity at the end of the line determines how many kilowatts will be transmitted for each ampere of line current, by fixing the power factor of the load transmitted and the voltage at the receiving end of the line. When a line is to be designed for paralleling two plants, it must have sufficient “synchronizing power” to hold the two plants together."
"The author reviews the method for showing the behavior of transmission lines first given by Perrine and Baum and then shows how it can be used in determining the effect of the use of a synchronous motor operating without load for improving the power factor. The effect of the losses in the motor are shown both in their effect on the line alone and on the line with the step-up and step-down transfomrers included. The diagram given shows both the improvement in voltage regulation and the change in power factor due to the phase-modifier for any assumed condition of loading for the transmission line. The errors of the method are discussed with methods for determining their magnitude, and the advantages of the graphical treatment pointed out."
"The paper describes the conditions on the system in Toledo which was originally delta-connected. Serious trouble was experienced when a short circuit occurred especially with synchronous apparatus connected to the line which invariably failed due to the voltage drop occasioned by the severe short circuits on the delta system. This trouble was overcome by changing the transmission to a Y system with the neutral grounded. The effect of a short circuit with the new connection has been decidedly minimized."
"The 348th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Boston, March 14, 1919. The headquarters of the Institute during the meeting will be at the Hotel Copley Plaza where all the technical sessions will be held."
"To all Fellows, Members and Associates: Your attention is earnestly invited to the two letters published below and relating to a newly created Committee on Development. This Committee will not succeed in its labors unless it can secure a clear composite of the views of the membership at large. A member of the Committee has been appointed or will be appointed from every Section. Every Institute member is earnestly urged to submit any suggestion he may have along the lines indicated or otherwise to his own Section member of the Committee on Development. Where a member is not affiliated with any Section, he is urged to send his suggestions direct to Secretary Hutchinson."
"The Seventh Annual Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, February 19 to 21, the total attendance of members and guests being about 1300."
"A three day joint meeting, the first of its kind in the annals of the Institute, and possibly the forerunner of similar annual meetings, was held in Calcutta, India, on December 30, 1918, and January 2 and 3, 1919, by local members of the British Institution of Electrical Engineers and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Papers were presented by N. N. Iengar, assistant to the chief electrical engineer, Government of Mysore, Dr. Alfred Hay of the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and Mr. F. N. Mowdawalla."
"On the evening of February 10, 1919, a joint meeting of the four Founder Societies was held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, for the purpose of hearing informal addresses by the delegates of these societies to the Engineering Congress held in Paris during December and January for the purpose of formulating plans for the restoration and development of French industry."
"Baltimore. — Belvedere Hotel, December 18, 1918. Illustrated lecture by Mr. H. L. Hess on “Electric Furnace as Applied to Steel Making”. Joint meeting with local section of A. S. M. E. Attendance 70."
"ABBOT, GEORGE, Cable Tester, American Tel. & Tel. Co., 195 Broadway, New York, N. Y."
"MAJOR WILLIAM J. HAMMER, who in civilian life is a consulting electrical engineer with offices at 55 Liberty St., New York City and who for some time past has served the War Department in the War Plans Division, was on December 13 appointed a member of the General Staff Corps."
"Opportunities. — The Institute, is particularly anxious to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the BULLETIN. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made; these are taken from the preface or the text of the book."
"In the usual theory of transients the assumption is made, that resistance, inductance, capacity and conductance are constant. This however, is not correct, and as the result thereof, it was not possible to theoretically investigate, and numerically calculate the dissipation of high-frequency disturbances, the flattening of the wave fronts of impulses, the rounding off of steep waves, etc., with the time and the distance of travel, and therefrom to determine the distance, to which the danger from such disturbances extends, and to investigate the conditions of line construction, which limit the danger zone of such phenomena to the smallest local extent. In the following, two of the foremost causes of change of the line constants with the equivalent frequency are investigated, the unequal current distribution in the conductor, and the electric radiation from the conductor, and shown, that within the range of frequencies which may be met in industrial circuits, the effective resistance of the conductor, and its attenuation constant, may increase more than a million fold. Equations of the line constants as function of the equivalent frequency are derived, and applications thereof made to a few problems: (1) The laws of conduction of high-frequency currents, such as produced by lightning discharges and similar disturbances, and the conclusions resulting therefrom on the nature of the conductor. (2) The decay of high-frequency sine waves in transmission lines. (3) The attenuation of rectangular waves. (4) The flattening of the wave front of steep impulses. It is shown that in high-frequency conduction the section of the conductor is of little importance, but the circumference is the determining factor, except at very high frequencies, where size, shape, and material — within certain limits — becomes of secondary importance. The inductance and the capacity of the conductor remain constant up to very high frequencies, but the effective resistance may increase many thousand fold. At high frequencies, not all the energy consumed by the effective resistance of the conductor is converted into heat, but the major part may be radiated into space and thereby affect other circuits. The conditions, which cause a flattening of steep wave fronts and impulses, and a rounding of irregular waves, are investigated, and it is shown, that within the range of distances in which danger may result from a steep wave front or high frequency, the steepness of the wave front decreases with the square root of the distance traveled by the wave; that size and material of the conductor have little influence, but the distance between conductor and return conductor is the main factor in flattening the wave front and thereby limiting the danger zone. For convenience, the theoretical part has been separated and placed in an appendix, giving in the text the discussion, with numerous tables derived from the theoretical equations, and curves illustrating these tables. The investigation is not general, but rather limited to special applications, as the field is too new to permit fargoing generalization."
"Although welding literature is replete with discussions of applications, little information is available descriptive either of non-destructive inspection methods or of the process of metallic electrode arc welding. This paper calls attention to such characteristics as penetration and overlap, peculiar to this process, which facilitate visual inspection and discusses briefly the effect of arc length, welding procedure, electrode material, arc current and electrode diameter upon these characteristics."
"The paper points to the necessity for a reduction in the cost of shipbuilding, and as riveting is one of the most expensive items of construction the substitution of welding for riveting would decrease the cost of construction considerably. A brief review is given of what has been done in substituting welding for riveting, and to the limited extent to which electric welding has been tried it has been found successful. Lloyd's Register is prepared to classify electrically-welded vessels subject to certain provisions, but shipbuilders have not as yet adopted welding to a large extent for the reason, in the author's opinion, that they know that welds are lacking in uniformity and it is impossible to tell when a joint is good or bad. The author believes that the correct method of approaching the problem of electric welding is first to obtain workmen who are thoroughly trained and skilled and the suggestion is made that only certified men should be employed at this work. From the welding of minor parts the process could be advanced to more important members until eventually a ship would be produced in which both the processes of welding and riveting would be utilized in whatever proportions would attain maximum economy of construction."
"This paper is divided into two parts. The first part describes the development of the art of radio telephony by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and the Western Electric Company to the accomplishment of transatlantic telephony, followed by demonstrations of the use of radio telephony between ships and of methods of connecting radio and wire telephone systems. This first part covers work principally of an engineering research nature, the most important problems being the development of systems of generation, modulation, transmission and reception of radio telephone signals. The second part is concerned almost entirely with the work of producing radio telephone and allied apparatus for the Army and Navy in the late war. The major problem of the second part was the design of light and compact sets which could be produced rapidly and in large numbers, for the main features of the generating, modulating and receiving systems were already well understood."
"The paper deals with the reduction of inductive interference in telephone circuits. Various relative positions of two or more circuits, in which the mutual inductance is zero, and the mutual capacitance unbalance is approximately zero, are discussed. The most important ease is that when the two wires of one circuit occupy opposite ends of one diagonal of a square, and the other circuit, the ends of the other diagonal. A phantom formed on circuits so related is nearly immune from external induction. Several forms of construction embodying this arrangement, and built largely with standard parts, are illustrated. In these forms, about one third of the inductive relations of each physical circuit are with circuits in a position for approximately zero mutual inductance. The form of phantom transposition used automatically balances the circuits not so related. Calculations and tentative designs are presented to show that the use of these forms of construction will give greatest refinement of balance against induction from power circuits, and possibly also against cross-talk, increased flexibility in coordinating with the variations in exposure to power circuits, a simplification of the transpositions system, fewer transposition poles and transpositions, and when desired, the realization of a part of these advantages with the lead compressed into less than the normal space. The improvement is greatest in the phantoms. Adverse factors are the increased sensibility to cross-talk due to variations in sag, and the slightly increased capacitance of the phantoms. The cost of initial construction of the proposed forms should not be materially higher than for the present standard form. The cost of conversion of an existing lead to one of the proposed forms will be considerably greater than that of re-transposing the lead according to present practises."
"The purpose of this research was to make a broad theoretical study of transient phenomena with a view to developing methods of calculation directly applicable to engineering problems. The investigation starts with the problem of formulating the current in an electrical network or transmission system in response to a suddenly applied e.m.f. of arbitrary form. A simple formula is derived which expresses this current in terms of two independent functions: one, the applied e.m.f. expressed as a time function, and the other a characteristic function of the constants and connections of the system, this latter being termed the “indicial admittance” of the system. A knowledge of the indicial admittance, therefore, completely determines the behavior of the system to all types of applied voltages including both transient and steady states. A systematic investigation of methods for solving and computing the indicial admittance follows, in the course of which original solutions for transmission and artificial lines are derived and a new method involving integral equations is developed. This latter is particularly well adapted to handle the difficult problem of taking into account the effects of terminal impedances in transmission systems."
"The 349th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in New York, April 11th, 1919, at 8:15 p. m. in the Auditorium of the Engineering Societies' Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"To the Board of Directors, American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"The 348th meeting of the Institute was held at the Copley-Plaza Hotel, Boston, Mass., March 14, 1919. This meeting was somewhat of an innovation as it provided for morning, afternoon and evening sessions and presented a number of papers and addresses on widely divergent subjects. The meeting proved to be an unusually successful one and the attendance was so large as to tax the capacity of the meeting rooms at all the sessions."
"Through the generosity of Mr. J. E. Aldred there has been founded in the Department of Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., a course of lectures on Engineering Practise. The course of lectures is one feature of a general plan for furthering and improving undergraduate instruction in the methods and problems of the practise of engineering."
"The Surplus Account on December 31, 1917, showed a balance of $8,116.10. This amount has been increased by the surplus from the operating accounts during the year of $5,417.33, making a total on December 31, 1918, of $13,533.43. Of this amount $8,000.00 has been transferred to Depreciation and Renewal Fund, leaving a balance in Surplus Account of $5,533.43."
"Most conspicuous among the year's events are Ambrose Swasey's additional gift of $100,000 for the Endowment Fund and the increase in the membership of the Board from eleven to sixteen by amending United Engineering Society's By-Laws April 25, 1918. By the same amendment an Executive Committee of five was provided for. The endowment now amounts to $303,374.80. Income from the addition runs from September 1, 1918."
"Engineering Council has completed its second year. Notable in the year's history are: service to the Government in connection with the German war, creation of Engineering Societies Employment Bureau, establishment of a Washington office, appointment of a committee on Licensing of Engineers, and the admission of an additional member society. Through visits made by the Secretary mutually helpful relationships with engineering societies in twenty-five or more localities were established."
"The annual report of the Library Board of the Engineering Societies' Library for 1918 has recently been issued, from which the following items have been abstracted."
"Baltimore. — February 14, 1919, Engineers' Club. Paper: “Electrical Communications in War Times” by E. B. Craft. Paper illustrated with lantern slides. Joint meeting with local sections of Civil, Mechanical and Chemical Engineers, and the Engineers' Club. Attendance 110."
"ABBOTT, AMOS H., Staff Engineer, St. Paul Gas Light Co., St. Paul, Minn."
"Ralph Elsman has just been elected Vice-President of the Kings County Lighting Company, Brooklyn, N. Y. Mr. Elsman has been General Manager of the Company which office he still retains and his elevation to the Vice-Presidency comes as a recognition of his splendid service for the Company."
"Archie Oakes, Electrical Engineer for the Schwarze Electric Company, Adrian, Michigan, was fatally injured in a street car collision in Detroit on February 25, 1919. Mr. Oakes became an Associate in the Institute in 1914."
"Opportunities. — The Institute, is particularly anxious to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the BULLETIN. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the BULLETIN should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made; these are taken from the preface or the text of the book."
"The theory of the telephone receiver here offered is based upon the motional impedance circle which has been published in various chapters during the last few years. The new theory, which is stated under definite limitations, is a further development; taking into account the m.m.f. produced by the vibration of the diaphragm in the permanent magnetic field. The motional power is thus shown to be derived partly from the testing alternating current and partly from changes in power expended in the magnetic circuit. The motional impedance circle may therefore also be regarded as a power circle, with components along three different axes of reference."
"Electricity fills every requirement of railroad service, but as it involves a large investment, electrification has proceeded slowly. Electrification has also been retarded because the problem has been largely considered one of replacing the steam locomotive by the electric locomotive whereas in reality the problem is much broader. It really offers a fundamentally different method of train propulsion because the limitations of the steam locomotive disappear and the strictly limited motive power is replaced by one that is practically unlimited, thereby opening up many possibilities in the methods of railroad operation. While there are a number of different systems of electric traction all of the systems have many features in common and the possibility of unlimited electric power is a characteristic of them all. A brief review is given of electrified sections of railways showing the advantages which have been realized in both the freight and passenger service. Existing electrifications have been operated for a sufficient length of time so that operating statistics are now available, and any proposed undertaking may therefore be predicated on established facts. While electrification will greatly increase track capacity, there is a large railroad mileage which already has more than sufficient capacity, in which case electrification would not be justified. On the other hand, there are so many cases where its advantages are clear and conclusive that when the railroads are able to finance their required electrification it will test the capacity of the electric factories of the country to serve them."
"MOST of us speak of standardization in a vague sort of way, usually having in mind some particular corner of the field, but without sensing the comprehensiveness of the word or the magnitude and importance of the field covered, not realizing that the cooperation without which our modern society would be impossible, would in turn be impossible without a large measure of standardization. It might almost be said that the degree of standardization in any nation is a measure of its civilization, certainly in the material or industrial sense of the word."
"The probability that welding could, with advantage, be more widely used in ship construction than had heretofore been the case, led to the formation, in 1917, of a Welding Committee, which at first was conducted under the auspices of the Standards Committee of the Institute. The Welding Research Sub-Committee, formed in 1918, was a sub-committee of the Metallurgical and Electrical Sections of the Engineering Division of the National Research Council, and the Welding Committee, (under the chairmanship of Professor C. A. Adams) came under, the direction of the Emergency Fleet Corporation. The paper is in large part based on the work done by the Welding Research Sub-Committee up to January of this year."
"In order to protect workers from accident and eye-strain, industrial lighting codes have been adopted in four states and in Federal establishments. Similar action is under consideration in several other states and there is prospect of extension throughout the country. Investigation and experience indicate the need of government regulation of factory lighting. When adopted by industrial commissions under authority granted by Legislatures, the codes become in effect state law. Variations in the codes as adopted are less than might appear, some features being experimental. The existing codes correspond in essentials to the Illuminating Engineering Society code, on which they are based. Mandatory regulations are necessarily limited in function to the assuring of safety. Higher standards are essential for efficient production. Popular education in which electrical and illuminating engineers can cooperate, is an important feature of future development."
"The 35th annual convention of the Institute which was held at the Lake Placid Club, June 24–27, 1919, was well attended and thoroughly enjoyed by the members and guests present. While the chief object of the convention was the presentation and discussion of engineering papers and consideration of Institute policies, the program this year differed from those of former years, in the fact that the business and entertainment features were about evenly balanced, and this innovation met with general approval. The location of the convention was an ideal one and the natural beauties of the Adirondacks in addition to the numerous amusement features at the Lake Placid Club afforded ideal conditions for recreation."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Lake Placid Club, N. Y., Wednesday, June 25, 1919, at 4:00 p.m."
"A conference of technical societies was called by the Engineering Council in Chicago, April 23 to 25, to consider the establishment of a national department of public works. The conference was attended by 71 delegates representing 74 organizations with a membership in excess of 105,000. There were also 7 members of Engineering Council and 3 members of National Service Committee of Engineering Council, making the total number participating 81."
"The Committee on Classification and Compensation of Engineers appointed by Engineering Council has made a preliminary report covering three sections, namely, Federal, Railroad, and Municipal and State Sections. The following abstract covers the principal features of the report:"
"In many lines of engineering much excellent standardization work had been done before the war; the war emphasized its importance and showed most clearly the need of cooperation to prevent the confusion caused by the promulgation of overlapping standards by independent bodies. During the war the Government Departments coordinated these efforts in certain lines and greatly assisted in unifying them. The American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, American Society of Civil Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers and American Society for Testing Materials, recognizing the value of what had been done, invited the Government Departments of War, Navy and Commerce to appoint representatives to act with them to continue this work. The body so formed is the American Engineering Standards Committee. It has required considerable time to definitely formulate its objects, and to arrange methods for accomplishing them that would be effective without in any way interfering with the many organizations that have been doing such excellent work in this line."
"In the 1915 edition of the National Electrical Code the second paragraph of Rule 23, section “a” read as follows:"
"Atlanta. — May 30, 1919, Atlanta Theatre. Subject: “Electrical Communication in War Times.” Address with moving pictures by Major Edward B. Craft."
"Opportunities. — The Institute, is particularly anxious to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in this BULLETIN. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office files. Note. — Copy for publication in the BULLETIN should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters. Engineering Societies Employment Bureau. — This is a joint bureau under the auspices of the Engineering Council. The Institute's employment service is coordinated with that of the joint bureau."
"The library, which comprises the individual libraries of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, and the United Engineering Society, is ocated on the thirteenth and fourteenth floors of the Engineering Societies Building. In addition to engineering works it contains general reference books on allied sciences such as Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry. The library also contains publications of practically all the engineering societies in the world as well as current and bound sets of more than 1,000 engineering periodicals in English and other languages."
"ACKHURST, JOHN STANLEY, Apparatus & Supply Salesman, Canadian General Electric Co., Halifax, N. S."
"Philander Betts who was commissioned Major, Engineer Reserve Corps in February 1917 and promoted to the rank of Lieut. Colonel in March 1918 received his honorable discharge from the Army on May 31, 1919. Col. Betts was detailed to the Cantonment Division, Quartermaster Dept. which later became the Construction Division of the Army. During the last few months of his service he was engaged in writing the history and compiling the historical records of all War Dept. construction made necessary in this country in connection with the war."
"Captain Stuart Thomson of whose death a brief notice was inserted in the May Proceedings passed away on March 23, 1919 from the effects of bronchitis followed by double pneumonia. Capt. Thomson, son of Dr. Elihu Thomson was born in Lynn' Mass., August 13, 1886. He graduated with highest honors from Harvard in 1908 and in 1909 from M. I. T. where he specialized in Industrial Chemistry and Electrochemical Engineering."
"Any reader knowing the present address of any of the following members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"SINCE the last Annual Convention of this Institute the greatest war in the world's history has come to an end. Millions of lives have been sacrificed. Millions of men have been crippled in greater or less degree. Wealth to the extent of many billions of dollars has been destroyed. Most of the nations involved have been seriously impoverished. The whole social, economic and industrial order has received a severe shaking up and has in some countries been completely overturned. Widespread dissatisfaction with the old order prevails in nearly all of the countries involved in the war. Unrest is generally prevalent, and, however unreasonable the demands of the restless may seem, there probably is a reason. In any case “it is a condition not a theory that confronts us.”"
"This paper includes a description of a series of acoustical researches extending over a period of twenty-eight years. The properties of vibrating bodies and the subject of elastic hysteresis are discussed. Two fundamentally important instruments for the absolute measurement of sound have been developed and the theory given. The first is the standard of sound, called the phone, which is capable of reproducing at any time a sound of the simplest character and which permits the output of sound to be measured in watts of energy. The second is an instrument called the phonometer for measuring a sound in absolute measure. This instrument is now practically as sensitive as the human ear. Two essential features are the small damping of the vibrating system which results in extreme sensitiveness, but at the same time in great selectiveness, and the capacity for being tuned. Each of these instruments is fitted with a variable volume resonator and tuning over a range of about two octaves is accomplished by varying the volume of the resonator and by changing the tension of the wires to which the piston is attached. The determination of the space distribution of sound and of the effect of disturbing bodies, and the measurement of the reflecting coefficient of surfaces have been accomplished. The phonotrope is a third instrument designed and used to find the direction of a source of sound, for example a fog signal."
"IN answer to the request of the Board's Committee on Technical Activities that suggestions be offered for improving the technical work of the Institute, we incorporate our suggestions in this Committee's report for the year 1918–1919:"
"The Seventh Annual Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held February 19–21, 1919, in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"March Meeting. — The 348th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Boston, Mass., on Friday March, 14, 1919. This meeting will be under the auspices of the Boston Section of the A. I. E. E. At the afternoon session there will be presented a paper entitled “Electromagnetic Theory of the Telephone Receiver with Special Reference to Motional Impedance” by A. E. Kennelly and H. Nukiyama. The evening session will be devoted to addresses on the general subject “Research.”"
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters, New York, Friday, January 10, 1919, at 3:30 p. m."
"In a paper entitled, “Review of the Work of the Sub-committee on Wave Shape Standard of the Standards Committee,” which appeared in the January PROCEEDINGS, an account is given of work which has led to the adoption of three new standardization rules regarding wave shape, standardization rules No. 407, 408 and 409. Rule No. 407 defines the telephone interference factor of a wave and rule No. 408 gives the physical basis for its evaluation. Rule No. 409 reads as follows:"
"American Society for Testing Materials has accepted an invitation to become a member of Engineering Council. All formalities have been completed and this Society is now in full membership. Its representative is expected to take his place in the Annual meeting, February 20. The member societies of Engineering Council are now: American Society of Civil Engineers, American Institute of Mining Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Society for Testing Materials, United Engineering Society."
"The John Fritz Medal Board of Award, composed of representatives of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers, held their annual meeting for 1919 at the Engineers' Club, Friday evening, January 17th, and awarded their gold medal to George W. Goethals, the builder of the Panama Canal."
"At the University Club, New York, January 23, Chairman George E. Hale and other officers of the National Research Council, gave a dinner to officers of the National engineering and other societies. About thirty persons were present, including officers of National Research Council, the four Founder Societies, American Society for Testing Materials, Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc., Illuminating Engineering Society, United Engineering Society and Engineering Foundation. Letters were received from the Western Society of Engineers, which also had been invited. Gano Dunn, Vice-Chairman of National Research Council, was toastmaster."
"In response to a request of the Commissioner of Patents in 1917 and with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, a Patent Committee was appointed by the National Research Council to investigate the Patent Office and patent systems with a view to increasing their effectiveness and usefulness to the industrial life of the country. The Committee appointed by the National Research Council consisted of Dr. William F. Durand, Chairman, Drs. Leo H. Baekeland, M. I. Pupin, R. A. Millikan, S. W. Stratton, Reid Hunt, and Messrs. Frederick P. Fish, Thomas Ewing and Edward J. Prindle. In the absence of Dr. Durand in Europe Dr. Baekeland was appointed Acting Chairman."
"A conference for the standardization of technical symbols has been organized consisting of the Committee on Nomenclature of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education with the addition of delegates appointed by other national societies. Among the societies represented are the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Mining Engineers, Society of Automotive Engineers, and American Society of Civil Engineers. The first meeting of the conference was held in New York City, December 1918, at which meeting Prof. John T. Faig was elected Chairman, and Mr. Sanford A. Moss, Temporary Secretary."
"Boston. — January 7, Chipman Hall, Tremont Temple. Illustrated address by Mr. M. Luckiesh on “Camouflage on Land, Sea and Air.” Joint meeting with Boston Section of Illuminating Engineering Society. Attendance 300. Chicago. — December 30, 1918, Western Society Rooms. Address by President Comfort A. Adams on “Electric Welding in Ship Building.” Attendance 325."
"BAKER, WALTER R. G., Electrical Engineer, Standardizing Laboratory, General Electric Co.; res., 1 James St., Schenectady, N. Y."
"PAUL CLOKE has been elected to a Professorship of Electrical Engineering at the University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona."
"PROFESSOR R. C. CARPENTER of Cornell University died at his home in Ithaca on January 19. He was born in 1852 and graduated from Michigan University in 1877, and served for one year as assistant engineer of construction of the Detroit and Bay City R. R. He then became professor at Michigan Agricultural College and was in charge of the department of mathematics and civil engineering from 1878 to 1890 when he accepted the associate professorship of experimental engineering at Sibley College, Cornell. Prof. Carpenter also conducted a consulting engineering practise of considerable magnitude."
"The Employment Bureau of the A. I. E. E. cooperating with the Engineering Societies Employment Bureau, as recently established under the Board of Management consisting of the Secretaries of the A. S. C.E., the A. I. M. E., the A. S. M. E. and the A. I. E. E. is feeling the heavy and daily growing demand for employment existing among the “Engineers”. Men from the army, the navy, former civilian government employees and many others come to us for aid. They are of all types and grades from the clerk to the highly trained engineer executive."
"Opportunities. — The Institute, as stated in the letter above, is particularly anxious to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in the BULLETIN. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office reference files. Note. — Copy for publication in the BULLETIN should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Societies do not assume responsibility for any statements made; these are taken from the preface or the text of the book."
"Major General George O. Squier, Chief Signal Officer of the United States Army, reviews in this address the development of Military Aeronautics in the United States up to the date of the armistice, November 11, 1918. The War Department's first heavier-than-air flying machine was produced approximately ten years ago, but for the eight years that followed, the development lagged — in fact less than a million dollars was appropriated for aeronautics in the entire eight years. Then under the pressure of war, the United States by necessity plunged into a gigantic aircraft program — and the accomplishments today are numbered by the score. The Liberty Engine, acknowledged now to be the standard for the world, was produced; an industry new to the United States was developed, and other tremendous strides taken in the science of aerial navigation."
"THE purpose of this paper is to call attention to our national condition in relation to engineering research, in the hope that the desire among engineers to advance the sciences may be discussed and crystallized into the most acceptable form. The subject must have some sharpness of definition, and so I will give the meanings I attach to the title."
"IT takes no statement from the chairman nor admission from myself, to apprise most of you of the fact that I belong to the genus “Damn professor,” as we are affectionately called in Washington."
"It is of theoretical importance, as well as of practical importance in design, to be able to predetermine the dielectric strength of air films or bubbles entrapped in solid insulation. If such films are over-stressed the solid insulation may be damaged by chemical action, local heating, mechanical action etc., due to corona. An experimental investigation was made of the strength of air films of various thicknesses between glass plates. In the arrangement used, the breakdown of the air or the starting point of corona could be readily observed. Tests were also made of the dielectric strength of air films between other solid insulations. It was found that the dielectric strength of air films between insulations was practically the same as the dielectric strength of air films between conductors. The second part of the paper is devoted to the practical application of the data to the design of armature coils and cables, and several specific examples are given."
"This paper deals with the ionization of occluded gases in solid insulation from the standpoint that these gas spaces are the weakest part of an insulation design and should receive first consideration. The stress at which ionization starts in different types of built-up insulation, such as used in cables and coils, is measured and from these measurements a safe working stress determined. The paper brings out, more than anything else, the importance of reducing the gas spaces to a minimum size, and using materials of the lowest possible permittivity, since the higher the permittivity the greater the stress on the gas spaces. If an insulation design is worked at a stress so high that internal ionization occurs it should be considered as “over-stressed” and its life will certainly be shortened. Just how much it will be shortened depends upon such factors as; type of insulation used, degree of over-stressing, looseness and porosity, etc. Roughly, the life of an over-stressed design is any where from six months to six years, judging from numerous tests made. This shows that the damage is very gradual."
"Mathematical analysis is made of a rectangular wave impinging upon a transformer winding and quantitative values deduced of the resulting internal voltage stresses in terms of transformer constants. It is shown that the conclusions also apply in part to abrupt impulses and approximate idea is given of the reaction of transformer to high frequencies. The difference between operating transformer with isolated and grounded neutral is shown. Energy losses are not considered in the mathematics although the manner in which the results are affected is pointed out. Finally, theoretical results are compared with impulse and high-frequency tests made in the laboratory."
"The eighth annual Pacific Coast Convention will be held in Los Angeles, California, September 18–20, 1919, under the auspices of the Los Angeles Section. The program as arranged by the local committees insures important technical sessions as well as many pleasant social features."
"A joint meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the American Physical Society will be held in Philadelphia, at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, on Friday and Saturday, October 10–11, 1919."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute for the administrative year beginning on August 1, 1919, was held at Institute headquarters New York, on Tuesday, August 12, at 3:00 p. m."
"At a joint meeting of representatives of the Founder Societies, the United Engineering Society and the Engineers Club, held on August 12th, the following resolutions were adopted regarding the death of Mr. Andrew Carnegie. Copies of these resolutions have been spread upon the records of the various societies represented and have been transmitted to the family of Mr. Carnegie:"
"The so-called “Army Reorganization Bill” now before Congress provides for a largely increased Corps of Engineers. The total engineer personnel under the Regular Army organization now provided by law is 12,933, while the bill now before the Senate Committee on Military Affairs authorizes an enrollment of 28,338. The reorganization scheme provides that the Chief of Engineers shall have the rank of Major General, whereas under the present law he is a Brigadier General. Two Brigadier Generals are provided and the number of colonels is increased from 23 to 43; lieutenant-colonels from 30 to 52; majors from 72 to 134; captains from 152 to 322, and first lieutenants from 148 to 431."
"The following letter has been addressed to President Wilson by J. Parke Channing, Chairman of Engineering Council, urging the appointment of an engineer for the vacancy on the Interstate Commerce Commission and setting forth the reasons for such an appointment:"
"The delegation of American Engineers which visited France last winter at the invitation of the Congrés General du Génie Civil has submitted its report to the Engineering Societies which the delegates represented. The delegation was made up as follows:"
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Unless otherwise indicated, the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before September 30, 1919."
"SIDNEY W. FARNSWORTH recently returned from his duties as Associate Scientific Attaché at the American Embassy, London. He is now associated with Mark Manufacturing Co., Chicago, as Assistant to the Manager of the Evanston plant."
"Opportunities. — The Institute, is particularly anxious to learn of desirable opportunities from responsible sources, announcements of which will be published without charge in this BULLETIN. The cooperation of the membership by notifying the Secretary of available positions, is particularly requested. Services Available. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words in length) will be published without charge to members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months; during this period names and records will remain in the office files. Note. — Copy for publication in the BULLETIN should reach the Secretary's office not later than the 20th of the month if publication in the following issue is desired. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” announcements should be addressed to the number indicated in each case, and mailed to Institute headquarters. Engineering Societies Employment Bureau. — This is a joint bureau under the auspices of the Engineering Council. The Institute's employment service is coordinated with that of the joint bureau."
"The library, which comprises the individual libraries of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, and the United Engineering Society, is located on the thirteenth and fourteenth floors of the Engineering Societies Building. In addition to engineering works it contains general reference books on allied sciences such as Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry. The library also contains publications of practically all the engineering societies in the world as well as current and bound sets of more than 1,000 engineering periodicals in English and other languages."
"In connection with the forthcoming year's activities and with particular reference to the recommendations of the Committee on Development, it is essential that a careful study be made of our finances and while, in advance of such a study, no accurate figures are available, some approximations must be before us, otherwise intelligent consideration cannot be given to the questions on which the opinions of all members have been invited. Therefore, I hope you will consider that I am justified in laving before you the following information."
"A description is given of the physical consolidation of the Bell manual and the Automatic Electric telephone systems of Los Angeles, Cal., which previously to June 1, 1918 operated as separate systems. While similar consolidations had been made previously they included relatively small volumes of traffic and afforded no engineering precedents as a guide to the consolidation of two systems serving 129,000 stations. The plans for the physical union of the two companies were devised by a joint committee of engineering representatives, and contained a number of novel operating and construction methods which are described. Under the new system each subscriber has access to every other subscriber in the Los Angeles exchange and to all long-distance lines centering there. Where duplicate services were installed the subscriber was given his choice as to whether he would retain the manual or the automatic system, and about 12,500 duplicates were eliminated, the choice between the two types being equally divided."
"This paper summarizes the power resources of California and the probable loads to be supplied within the next six or seven years. For the purpose of economically distributing the necessary power and supplying the load, a long high voltage transmission line is proposed. As this line would interconnect a number of different companies, it assumes the nature of a bus bar. The authors show how the proposed line may link with some of the lines now in service and enumerate the advantages of such interconnection. A comparison is made between the 240-mile Big Creek line now operating at 150,000 volts, 50 cycles, and the operation of this line at 220,000 volts, 60 cycles. Operating data on the Big Creek line are shown to indicate the character of the construction necessary for California conditions. Conclusions are drawn as to the particular features to be observed for successful operation of 220,000-kv. lines."
"Formulas are presented and derived, which have not been previously published, for mutual inductance of coils with parallel axes, repulsion of coils with parallel axes, and self-inductance of long cylindrical coils. These formulas apply to practically all cases of reactance coils in common use. They are very convergent and accurate, and will give results to a given degree of accuracy with a minimum amount of labor. For many engineering problems, precise accuracy is not required, and sets of curves are given from which approximate readings may be taken."
"Expressions for electrostatic and electromagnetic energies, Joulian heat dissipation and power are given in complex quantities. The pure imaginary part of the expression for power in a static network is shown to be equal to 2 ω times the difference between the mean electromagnetic energy and mean electrostatic energy. Use is made of this new principle in considering the problems of power-factor correction and phase splitting. It is shown that in general for phase transforming by static apparatus both magnetic and electrostatic storage of energy are necessary, and it is shown how the minimum amounts of each are determined by the load. The symmetry of the coefficients in the general equations for the steady state in a static network is demonstrated, and it is shown that limitations upon voltage and current transformations follow. The voltage regulation of any phase-splitting arrangement is considered."
"The famous psychologist, Professor Munsterberg, wrote a few years ago a book on motion pictures, and he there asserted that the production of motion pictures by the best companies had graduated us an Art to rank coequal with painting, sculpture and music. By attention to mode and variation of lighting, many new psychological appeals can be made, including the portraying of the thought images in the minds of the characters of the play in a way that cannot be duplicated on the theater stage. Besides being one of the fine arts, the motion picture art has become the greatest educational institution in the world. Very special lighting is needed for scientific films, for ultra-rapid motion picture work, and for the several new color processes in motion picture production. Not only is the moving picture industry the greatest educational institution, but it is also one or our foremost industries. Since Edison's and Jenkin's invention of motion picture devices of only a score or so years ago, the industry has leaped to fourth place in the United States. There is spent annually three to four hundred million dollars by the people of the United States for the privilege of attending the motion picture theaters. The daily attendance is said to average between ten and twenty millions of people. Of the fifty thousand motion picture theaters in the world, there are about twenty thousand in the United States, and as a producing center, the United States is the greatest in the world. The sunshine of California has built up a major producing center in and near Los Angeles. (In this center, over $12,- 000,000 arc annually spent for motion picture production, and this gives employment to about 25,000 people.) Again the importance of light in relation to expense of production may be judged from the following statement made by Mr. G. McL. Baynes (of the English Hepworth Mfg. Co., see Moving Picture World, page 2334, December 25th, 1915); “As to photographic difficulties encountered in outdoor work in England, it is ridiculous to say that they cannot make pictures there. It is true, production is more expensive, perhaps twice us much because we have to wait for the Sunshine.” Thus in foggy England, the difficulties are much greater on account of poor light than in the West or East of the United States. The invention of the high amperage white flame are lamps and carbons and of other artificial light sources such as the daylight gas filled tungsten lamps and the mercury arc lamps, have eliminated these expensive waits for sunshine. The home-center of the motion picture industry in the East is again building up rapidly. These new studios are especially to be found in or near New York City, and to a lesser degree near other large centers of population, as for example, Chicago, Philadelphia, Cleveland, etc. Scenic interest, such as at Ithaca and in Florida, is another industrial factor in the location oi motion picture plants. The increase in artificial light facilities lias been an important economic factor in this Eastern movement which is being accelerated by the continual increase in the extraordinary salaries which are paid the motion picture artists. The cost of production of an average negative of one reel is said to be about $1,000, and of this it is certainly economy to spend one or two per cent. on securing the best lighting."
"For the past twelve years we have been engaged in the study of the practical optics as applied to the motion picture projector. Through observation, we discovered that the projection lens of our projector did not pick up the entire light beam, whereas others that had lenses of equal diameter did pick up the entire light beam."
"The purpose of this article is to illustrate the desirability of suitable design in order to secure a proper balance between the different parts of the optical system of the motion picture projector and to attain maximum light efficiency. Also, there is described a simple and hitherto little used method of observing the operation of the optical system which enables one to determine easily and quickly whether or not the proper balance between the different optical parts of the system exists, and whether there are any parts of the mechanism which interfere with the light."
"“The fact is, we have kept on discovering and forgetting and then re-discovering, ever since man began to think.”"
"It is almost as certain as death and taxes that no professional motion picture studio photographer is entirely satisfied with any model of camera that is manufactured to-day."
"Membership in the Society of Motion Picture Engineers stands for unselfish service to the Industry. Application for membership is by invitation and endorsement. All checks should be made payable to the Society of Motion Picture Engineers."
"Cameras, Printing Machines, Camera Equipment, Etc."
"Manufacturers of Cameras, Printing Machines, Camera Equipment, Etc."
"The Society of Motion Picture Engineers is now a well-established organization. During the three years of its existence, not-withstanding the hard struggle which we have experienced during an exceedingly trying period, we have, at all times shown the spirit of progress which has resulted in a successful organization. The success with which we have met has not been due to individual efforts, but rather to the united efforts of our members."
"First efforts to compare accurately the total illumination in motion picture projection with different optical arrangements, led to such improbable conclusions as to point to errors of observation so large as to render the required comparison unsatisfactory. The problem is to compare the quantities of light falling on the objective lens through a standard motion-picture aperture, with different sizes of source and objective; with different condenser systems, and with different distances between the various components. The reason for considering the light falling on the objective rather than on the screen is that the efficiency of the objective depends on its design, and with the large number of designs now at hand, the addition of this complication seemed inadvisable—especially as this problem belongs to the lens designer alone, and has nothing to do with the relation of the different parts of the projection apparatus. Accordingly, for the objective lens there was substituted a dummy objective, that is, a circular hole in a brass plate, this hole being of the size of the assumed effective diameter of the lens and the plate being at a distance from the aperture equal to the assumed focal length of the lens. Immediately behind this dummy objective was put a piece of flashed opal glass considerably larger than it, and 4 inches from this glass another similar one—a connecting brass tube blocking out stray light between. The illumination of the center of this second opal glass by the first is very even, and is proportional to the total light flux delivered by the rest of the optical system to the objective. The even illumination of this second opal glass was measured by a photometer mounted directly behind it, and built in as one assembly with the opal glasses, the dummy objective, and the aperture plate. The aperture plate was 5½ inches in front of the dummy objective; the 5½ inches corresponding to the focal length of an objective frequently met in practice. An arrangement was made for changing the size of the objective opening."
"This paper cites most of the factors that must be considered in making the proper selection of power equipment for the Motion Picture Studios. After reviewing the more important factors, suggestions are made regarding the type of equipment that should be selected to produce the best possible results under given conditions."
"Following the introduction and adoption of the Safety Standard film, the next logical step of progression was the creation of a supply of this film, adequate to the needs of the field it is to safeguard."
"Stereoscopic motion pictures, that is, motion pictures projected in such manner that the optence sees them in true simulation of all the wonderful depth, perspective and solidity of the real scene itself, has been the problem of photographers since Daguerre made his first twin “tintypes.” Its practical solution has engaged the attention of the most brilliant minds, but remains unattained. By practical method I mean commercially useful, or profitable perhaps I should say. And this probably means stereoscopic vision without eye aids. It seems to be a much more difficult task than motion pictures in natural color."
