"There are certain industries which thrive on fragility; lack of durability and liability to breakage are cardinal to their prosperity; readers of Arnold Bennett will remember the play he makes in one book of the huge enjoyment of a pottery town audience, when, at a theatre, crockery smashing was in evidence; but apart from porcelain whose fragility sustains an industry by replacement. large numbers of manufactured articles are meant to enjoy only a transient and brief existence. In only one instance can engineering products be compared with those articles intended for early obsolescence, upon which, if current report be true, certain prosperous businesses are founded; this is in the case of spares whose cost is in many cases ominously high. It is not so much that the original device was ill-made, as that wear having taken place the customer is exploited because he is defenceless."
"This paper presents data giving the discharge characteristics of a commercial type of impulse gap under different conditions. Test data are also presented giving the characteristics of certain experimental gap structures designed to minimize the effects of adverse weather conditions, such as rain, fog, etc. A brief discussion of some of the factors that determine the degree of protection afforded by a lightning arrester spark gap is included in the paper. The term “protection factor” is defined and curves giving the protection factor of certain types of gap are presented."
"Since the first papers on the oxide film (O F) lightning arrester were given a little over two years ago,1 the arrester has proved itself to be a worthy piece of apparatus by performance in regular service. Several hundred arresters up to 73-kv. rating, are now installed on both indoor and outdoor circuits, and higher voltage units will soon be in service."
"THE fundamental principle of designing high-voltage insulation, such as bushings, insulators etc., is obviously the application of electrostatics. A close examination of the evolution of the present methods of designing, however, will reveal the fact that it has been based very much upon experience rather than rational design. If the design were executed in rigorous accordance with the theory of electrostatics, the result would not necessarily be satisfactory, but very often lead to failure."
"The paper continues the investigations described by the author in another paper on the same subject presented before the Institute in June, 1916 which had for its primary object the reconciliation of the differences between laboratory experiments and experience in service. In the paper an endeavor is made to list the several factors which affect lightning arrester performance and to describe the methods of eliminating these several variables so as to permit the presentation of curves which show the relative merits of the arresters under investigation. The elimination of the several variable factors was accomplished by placing the arresters under practically identical conditions so that no type was at any material advantage or disadvantage on account of the preponderance of the factors which would affect its performance. This was found to be possible for all of the factors except the one relating to density of the arresters, that is, the number per square mile, so that the final curves show the performance of the several types of arresters as affected by their density. These results show that four of the types of arresters are practically identical in their protective value and about 60 per cent as efficient as a fifth type, while the results for the sixth type, being limited to a much smaller number of arresters, and a shorter period of time, do not appear to be conclusive."
"IN studying the progress of the electrical art one is continually confronted with the fundamental factors in Ohm's law — namely, volts, amperes, resistance, inductance and capacity. Of all these factors, the least practical use is made of the latter, and one is naturally interested to learn the reason for this apparent neglect when there are so many applications for this factor."
"A Committee was appointed in March last by the Minister of Transport of Great Britain to advise what regulations are necessary to ensure that the future electrification of the railways in this country is carried out to the best advantage, more particularly as regards uniformity of equipment. The committee has issued an interim report which recommends that regulations should be issued in accordance with the following conditions:"
"Acting upon a request from the Secretary of the International Aircraft Standards Commission, that arrangements be made, if possible, for American participation in the next meeting of the Commission, the American Engineering Standards Committee invited the various government and industrial organizations interested in aircraft standardization, to send representatives to a conference to discuss the question. The conference, which was held in Washington on August 11th, was attended by representatives of the Departments of War, Navy, Post Office, Commerce, and Agriculture, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, the Society of Automotive Engineers, Manufacturers Aircraft Association, American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the American Society for Testing Materials."
"Interested organizations, especially the American Association of State Highway Officials, are now showing active interest in the Chamberlain bill, which it will be recalled proposed an appropriation of $400,000,000 for the continuation of Federal aid to the rural post roads program. This appropriation according to the terms of the bill is to be made available for construction work at the beginning of the fiscal year June 30, 1922. $100,000,000 is available during each of the four years subsequent to this date."
"THE first part of the paper, after a short history of the science of light, is devoted to a series of experiments showing unassailable facts, and the writer has then drawn his own conclusions and presented his own theories on interatomic force. Very long light waves were first investigated with the hope of showing by analogy the mechanism of ordinary visible light and of heat."
"This paper is an analytical study of the power abstractive and selective properties of simple series radio antenna circuits.1 It does not deal with the properties of coupled circuits, or of amplifying circuits, or of differentially connected circuits which utilize a difference in the direction of propagation of the waves from the correspondent station and the interferent sources to reduce interference. A discussion of the selective properties of the simple series circuit is a necessary, or at least a very helpful, preliminary to the treatment of coupled, amplifying and differentially connected circuits."
"At a conference held October 6 by the Publication and Finance Committees of the Institute certain changes in the Institute's policy regarding the monthly Journal and annual Transactions were recommended, as embodied in the following resolutions:"
"On Friday, November 12, 1920, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will hold its 365th meeting under the auspices, jointly, of the Chicago Section and the Protective Devices Committee. The Electrical Section of the Western Society of Engineers will participate."
"At its meeting in Philadelphia, October 8th, the meetings and Papers Committee arranged for this season's Institute meetings as follows:"
"The 364th meeting of the A. I. E. E. was held in Philadelphia, Pa., October 8, 1920, at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel. The registered attendance was 198. The meeting consisted of a technical session in the afternoon and a celebration of the centenary of the discoveries of Oersted, Ampere, Arago and Davy in the evening. An informal dinner was served in the ballroom of the hotel at 6 p. m., after which President Berresford made a brief address in regard to the policies and activities of the Institute."
"There has been formed in Austria a national engineering standardizing body. It is called the “Normenausschuss der Osterreichischen Industrie” and is organized under the auspices of the “Hauptverband der Industrie Deutschosterreichs.” The Secretary is Dr. Jaro Tomaides."
"Organized by several national engineering societies, including the Institute, to represent their membership in matters of common interest, especially relationships of engineers to the public and to governments. Council is one result of a wide movement to enlarge the activities of engineers for patriotic, social and personal welfare."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the A. I. E. E. held in Philadelphia, October 8, the following twelve members were appointed as the official representatives of the Institute upon the Am. Engineering Council, which is the governing body of the Federated American Engineering Societies, for the term beginning January 1, 1921, and also to represent the Institute at the organization meeting to be held in Washington, November 18–19, 1920:"
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Richard Lamb, an Associate of the Institute since 1895 and a Member since 1913, died on October 18, 1920. Mr. Lamb was born in Norfolk, Va., in 1859. He received his early education at several schools in Virginia, and in 1883 finished the course at Brown University, Providence, R. I. From that time on he was engaged in active engineering work, for the most part in designing and building various plants, being appointed as Chief Engineer by such companies as the Brooklyn Dock and Terminal Co., the Chauncey Realty Co., and the Virginia Copper Co., Ltd. Later he went into business as Consulting Electrical and Civil Engineer with offices in New York City. Besides being a Member of the A. I. E. E., Mr. Lamb was a Member of the A. S. C. E. and the A. I. M. E."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"IN the summer of 1917, the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Company issued specifications covering the apparatus necessary for the electrification of their line from Othello to Seattle and Tacoma. The following were the principal requirements for passenger locomotives as finally determined by the Railway Company:"
"DECEMBER 9th, 1915, may be considered the date of the initial electrical operation over the electrified lines of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad. During the following winter the electrification was extended over 440 miles of route from Harlowton, Montana, to Avery, Idaho, a section which crossed the Belt Mts., the Rocky Mts., and the Bitter Roots. The locomotives for this initial electrification were of the geared type, designed and built especially with a view to the most economical operation of the freight service. The locomotives for passenger service differed from the freight locomotives only in the details where it was absolutely necessary to meet the operating requirements, such as changing the gear ratio to increase the speed and providing car heating and lighting equipment."
"WITH the increasing application of 60-cycle synchronous converters to railway service, the question of flashing is receiving considerable attention. A series of tests has recently been made, and others are still in progress, with a view to determining the possibilities of protection from flashing by various methods, including the “quick-acting breaker,” “flash suppressor,” “flash guards” and various modifications and combinations of these. The converter that has been used for these tests is a standard 500-kw., 600-volt, six-phase, 60-cycle, 1200-rev. per min. machine. It was supplied with power from a 5000-kv-a. generator through three standard high-reactance transformers. These transformers had a reactance of approximately 17 per cent at normal load and 10 per cent on short circuit."
"WHEN automatically controlled substation equipment was in the development stage, the general consensus of opinion was that its greatest field lay in relieving the smaller interurban systems of a greater portion of their substation operating labor. While many such systems have installed one or more automatic substations, they have not displayed the interest in the matter that was expected. In many cases the officials have professed their total inability to finance the new apparatus even though the investment would show a very attractive saving."
"The article covers the theory and operation of Audion oscillator circuits. It embraces phase relations in various circuits, frequency of operation, simplification of complex circuits, and the behavior of oscillators as a function of its many variables. Vector diagrams are given of the phase relations in several simple circuits. The similarity of more complicated circuits to the simple ones is illustrated and the manner of determining the mode of operation of them by resolving into simple ones is given. A series of curves showing the behavior of an oscillator as the six independent variables in the circuit are varied, is illustrated by a series of curves and a method of quickly and easily adjusting a circuit to its proper working condition is pointed out from them. The problem of securing high efficiency is also discussed and requirements toward that end are pointed out."
"THERE has been a need of a rational method of determining the economic voltage for a proposed transmission line. This voltage has often been decided upon after making several lengthy cost estimates of lines at different operating voltages. It is the purpose of this paper to indicate a solution by an application of Kelvin's Law. While this law has certain limitations, of which the engineer must be aware, attention will be called to these at the proper time. Inasmuch as a choice of line conductor is generally limited to such standard sizes as are manufactured commercially, and a choice of voltage is limited in the same way, it is neither necessary nor advisable to find a solution which is accurate to any great degree of refinement. Capacity and skin effect are purposely ignored in obtaining the approximate solution. Such refinements can later be applied. The scope of this paper will be to present a rapid solution of the economic copper conductor as determined by Kelvin's Law, and using this as a stepping stone, the solution of the economic line voltage will be developed; the theory will then be extended to conductors other than copper. The principles given should be regarded as general, and should be supplemented by the use of good judgment in their application."
"It has been mentioned that when using a detecting instrument of quite high sensitivity it is necessary to go to very large sizes of the magnet and detecting coil, in order to reach even moderate distances of detection, if no other means are used for increasing the sensitivity."
"Part 1. This investigation was undertaken to determine whether any iron-nickel alloys could be found having a higher saturation value than pure iron. Alloys were prepared containing 0–100 per cent Ni. Pure Fe-Ni alloys do not forge readily, and to make them forgeable it is necessary to add alloying elements like Mn or Ti. The results show that the saturation value decreases slowly with increase in Ni content up to 20 per cent Ni; then rapidly to 30 per cent; again rises rapidly to 50 per cent and falls off gradually toward 100 per cent Ni. At no point does it exceed that of pure iron. For values of II between 100 and 400 the permeability is about 5 per cent higher for 6 to 8 per cent Ni than for pure iron, but this advantage is offset by the large increases in hysteresis loss. Alloys containing 35 to 70 per cent Ni have high permeability at low and medium densities and low hysteresis loss, the highest permeability occurring for 50 per cent. 30 to 50 per cent alloys are characterized by a nearly straight line B-H curve from the origin to B = 2000 to 4000 gausses and also by low retentivity and coercive force, properties which are of value in connection with certain electromagnetic meters. Part II. Previous investigations on commercial iron-nickel alloys have shown that 25 to 35 per cent alloys have irreversible magnetic and electrical transformation points occurring below ordinary temperatures. The present investigation confirms these results for pure alloys. A 30 per cent alloy, annealed and cooled to room temperature, had its saturation value, 4πIs increased from 2500 to 17,800 gausses and its electrical resistance decreased from 81 to 32 microhms per cu. cm. after being cooled to liquid air temperature and reheated to room temperature. Alloys containing 15, 35 and 50 per cent nickel showed practically no change after the above treatment. After allowing all transformations from the austenitic state to the α state to take place the curves for 4πIs and for electrical resistances both have definite cusps for 34.5 per cent nickel, corresponding to the compound Fe2Ni, thus giving evidence of the existence of this compound. It is pointed out that the irreversible transformation causes an enormous increase in the hysteresis loss."
"THE very great increase in the demand for nitrates during the war for the manufacture of explosives and fertilizers, together with the shortage of imported Chile saltpeter, which was the principal source of nitrates before the war, has been emphasized sufficiently in previous papers. This condition of increased demand and curtailed supply led not only to the establishment of many manufacturing plants for the production of nitrates by well-known methods, but also to laboratory research and commercial development in connection with promising new processes."
"On Friday April 9, 1920, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will hold its 359th meeting at the Copley Plaza Hotel, Copley Square, Boston, Mass. This meeting will be held jointly with the American Electrochemical Society and will be under the auspices of the Boston Section and the Committee on Electrochemistry and Electrometallurgy. Arrangements have been made for the registration of Institute members in the lobby of the hotel at 9 a. m."
"New York, May 21, 1920. Annual business meeting of the Institute, at which the annual report of the Board of Directors will be presented, and the report of the Tellers Committee announcing the officers elected for the coming year will be read. The Edison Medal will be presented to William LeRoy Emmet."
"Cleveland. — April 20, 1920. Subject: “The Sperry Gyroscope.” Speaker: Mr. Robert B. Lea, Sperry Gyroscope Company."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Duquesne Club, Pittsburgh, on Friday, March 12, 1920, at 11:00 a. m."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held in Pittsburgh, March 12, the report of the Tellers Committee giving the result of its canvass of the nomination ballots received for the offices to be filled at the coming annual election, was presented."
"The 358th Meeting of the Institute was held at the William Penn Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa., on March 12th, under the auspices jointly of the Pittsburgh Section and the Traction and Transportation Committee. The total attendance of members and guests was approximately 600."
"The Engineering Section of the National Safety Council will hold a spring meeting in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Tuesday, April 27, ending with a dinner at the Commodore Hotel. The program includes the following subjects:"
"The John Fritz Medal Board of Award, composed of representatives of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers, met on January 16, 1920, and awarded the medal for 1920 to Mr. Orville Wright “Fro achievement in the development of the airplane.”"
"With the recent formation of the student branch of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, a plan has been developed to stimulate interest in the activities of the branch and to include in these activities all the students in the Electrical Engineering Department of the University."
"Organized by several national engineering societies, including the Institute, to represent their membership in matters of common interest, especially relationships of engineers to the public and to governments. Council is one result of a wide movement to enlarge the activities of engineers for patriotic, social and personal welfare."
"When the meeting of the members of the Board of Surveys and Maps with representatives of outside organizations was over on March 9th, everyone who was in attendance agreed that a long step had been taken toward improvement of Governmental efficiency. This meeting was called by the Chairman of the Board, Mr. O. C. Merrill, as a result primarily of the report of the Interdepartmental Conference on Topographic Mapping, dated September 30, 1919, and in accordance with an Executive Order dated December 31st, 1919, which created the Board of Surveys and Maps, and directed it to receive advice and counsel of outside agencies interested in the mapping work of the Government."
"After the House of Representatives passed Mr. Good's Budget Bill to the members of the Select Committee on the Budget in the Senate, each took this question up separately and made recommendations for extending and changing the bill to meet their ideas."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources arc announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities, is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"R. E. Uptegraff has discontinued his services with the Adams-Bagnall Electric Co. of Cleveland, Ohio, and will again take up his work in Pittsburgh with the firm of Rutherfoord & Uptegraff, Consulting Electrical Engineers."
"Albert Percy Chapman died on March 18, 1920, following an illness of eight days of double pneumonia. Mr. Chapman was born in Springfield, Mass., February 5, 1883, and was a graduate of the Springfield High School and Worcester Polytechnic Institute. In 1914 he went to Ludlow, Mass., to take charge of electrical work for the Ludlow Manufacturing Associates, and became Superintendent of power and repairs in 1917, which office he held at the time of his death. He joined the Institute as Associate in 1906, and became a Member in 1917."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Boston. — February 24, 1920, Harvard Union, Cambridge, Mass. Informal dinner followed by a talk by Professor George F. Swain on “A National Department of Public Works.” This was a joint meeting of The Boston Society of Civil Engineers, The Boston Sections of the A. S. M. E. and A. I. E. E. Attendance 45."
"IT is the purpose of this paper IT is the purpose of this paper to review the duties of the line insulator at voltages above 100 kv. and compare them with the duties imposed by the lower voltages. It seems desirable to do this at the present time in order to predict the reliability of future high-voltage lines as compared with those at present in operation, and to point out what changes, if any, are necessary in present practise. The discussion is based in general upon data and operating experiences of many investigations and, in particular, upon extensive investigations made by the author during the last few years. Quite complete data on that phase of the author's investigation dealing with voltage distribution will be given."
"POTENTIOMETER measurements∗ were made of the maximum and average voltage duties occurring in strings made up of 10-inch cap and pin type units wherein the numbers of the units were varied from 2 to 20. The numbers of units in the string and their corresponding maximum to average voltage duty-ratios thus obtained were used to locate curve II in Fig. 1. The increase in the duty-ratios is small for the shortest string of two units, it accelerates rapidly as the string is lengthened to 7 units and thereafter it remains constant at the rate of 0.09 per unit added from 7 to 20. Such increase is low and accelerating in short strings of from 2 to 7 units while it is high and constant in long strings of 7 or more units."
"A discussion of the application of stamped and pressed steel units of mild, structural and alloy steel to the suspension problem in high-tension transmission. Factors to be considered in the design of hardware for line construction."
"THE extension of the field of application of electric energy to human service requires more and more of measurements of electrical quantities, of varying grades of precision. Very prominent in the history of electrical measurements is the so-called “bridge” method, the fundamental principle of which is the equalizing of the potentials of two chosen points in a network of electric circuits. The original application of this principle was made by S. H. Christie in 1833 to the measurement of resistance to direct current in the arrangement long familiarly known as the Wheatstone Bridge. Numerous forms of Wheatstone Bridge for direct-current measurement have been developed. The conditions for its use have been investigated thoroughly and are well-known."
"Referring to Mr. Candy's comments on a-c. welding equipment in his article published in the Journal for June, 1920, it must be that he has drawn his conclusions from apparatus which he has constructed for his company. At least we know that no part of his comments refer to our a-c. welding machine although the article definitely classes all a-c. welding as poor. For instance, he makes the statement, “To make the equipment commercially successful in the hands of the average welder it is necessary to use an especially prepared electrode.”"
"POWER factor is a characteristic of electrical energy which is being transmitted by an impressed alternating voltage and resultant alternating current whereby it is possible for the current to rise and fall in magnitude before, with or after, the equivalent rise or fall in the alternating electromotive force. Tied up with this relative timing of voltage and current waves (which make up one pair of the cause and effect twins of the electrical family) is much of the hope and grief of the distribution game."
"THIS chart is based on the expansion formula: sinh (x ± j y) = sinh x cos y ± j cosh x sin y. The two parts of the resulting expansion readily lend themselves to solution by an Alignment Chart. Thus Scale B is plotted to log. sinh x, and numbers used for grading are actual values of x. In the same way, Scale C is plotted to log. cos y, and numbers used for grading are actual values of y. The Scale E is plotted to the logs, of the products of Scales B and C, and the numbers these logs, represent are used for grading."
"ANYONE familiar with the design of air-core inductances knows, that for a given resistance, the size and weight of the coil rapidly increase as the inductance is increased. Though the increased cost due to this increase in weight may not be of great importance, it is evident in many types of apparatus in which such coils play an essential part, as in portable radio sets, that both weight and size must be reduced to the minimum possible."
"THE Study of Mentality in Industry, in which the Engineering Foundation has done some preliminary work, marks a new appreciation of the responsibilities which confront us. “Civilization as we know it today is due mainly to the engineer or applied scientist. As a profession, we are largely responsible for present conditions and therefore we should do our part in solving such problems as exist, and in helping to direct aright the tendencies of the day. We have a duty to ourselves to our profession, to society, and to our successor, — and we must perform it,” said George F. Swain, ex-president of the American Society of Civil Engineers."
"ENGINEERS have long known that the density of the flux in the cores of electrical machinery changes with the depth, but there has been considerable divergence of opinion in regard to the magnitude of such variations."
"THE use of the oscillograph for recording the instantaneous values of electrical phenomena has steadily increased in both scholastic and commercial institutions. Formerly it was seldom necessary to use the oscillograph in the field. However, due to the increasing complexity in transmission circuits and in railway electrification problem, it has become more and more desirable to have a special, portable, commercial oscillograph which, besides having the properties of the best laboratory oscillograph shall also be extremely compact and light in weight."
"IN a direct-current measuring instrument, the deflection is usually proportional to the strength of the current to be measured, and it is also proportional to the strength of a magnetic field, produced by permanent magnets. In the corresponding alternating-current instrument, the magnetic field must ordinarily be produced by the measured current itself, and the deflection will therefore be inherently quadratic with respect to the measured quantity. In a thermal instrument, the heating effect of the current is observed, and the scale is likewise quadratic. This correspondingly holds for electrostatic alternating-current instruments. With this inevitable second-power relation follows uneven scale divisions, and poor sensitivity at low values, two circumstances which have a decidedly detrimental effect upon the accuracy of alternating-current measurements. In work requiring a high degree of precision, some indirect method is therefore often employed, and the alternating-current measurement is reduced to a direct-current measurement by use of an intermediate apparatus, which may be generally called a comparator. By aid of the comparator some effect of the alternating current to be measured is either observed, through direct-current measurements, or neutralized by means of a direct current, the exact value of which may be determined with the extremely high accuracy of the direct-current potentiometer."
"The Ninth Annual Pacific Coast Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held in Portland, Oregon, July 21–24, 1920, under the auspices of the Portland Section. Headquarters at the Multnomah Hotel."
"A brief notice of the presentation of the Edison Medal to Mr. W. L. R. Emmet was given in the June Journal which was published before the details of the meeting could be reported. The program consisted of addresses by Carl Hering, Chairman of the Edison Medal Committee; Past President, H. W. Buck; and the recipient, Mr. Emmet. Mr. Hering described the origin and history of the medal and said in part:"
"The annual report of the Board of Directors of the A. I. E. E. was presented at the annual business meeting of the Institute held in New York on Friday evening, May 21st, 1920."
"The Meetings and Papers Committee has held a meeting every month except July and August. These meetings have been well attended and marked by much interest and discussion. A very large number of papers has been offered to the committee in the last year, more than could possibly be presented at the regular meetings of the whole Institute."
"The Publication Committee was established for the first time during the present year by an amendment to the By-laws, in order to carry into effect the recommendations of the Development Committee relating to the Institute publications, as approved by the June 1919 Convention and subsequently by the Board of Directors. This committee has supervision of the monthly Journal and the annual Transaction of the Institute; the functions of the former Editing Committee have been incorporated with those of the new Publication Committee."
"In response to the call issued April 19, 1920 by the Joint Conference Committee representing the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, about 140 delegates representing 71 societies, having an aggregate membership of over 110,000, convened in Washington, D. C., June 3–4, 1920."
"Engineering Council has in numerous ways expedited the creation of a comprehensive, representative body to perform for the engineers of America in a larger fashion, such functions as Council has performed for the past three years. At its meeting in October, 1919, Council endorsed the general plan for a national engineering council, as outlined by the Joint Conference Committee of the Founder Societies. January 23, 1920, it assembled in joint meeting in Engineering Societies Building, the governing bodies of all its member societies and United Engineering Society, at which meeting the plan was given strong impetus. Through its Washington office, and otherwise, Council aided the Organizing Conference of Technical Societies, held June 3 and 4, in Washington."
"A special joint meeting of the founder societies was held in the Engineering Societies Building on May 26, 1920, having for its subject the value to the Engineering Profession of a liaison between the Engineering Societies of Russia and of America, to further cooperation for the benefit of the engineers of both countries. Mr. Walter N. Polakov, Member, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, presided, and the speakers were Mr. N. A. Stephanoff, President, Russian Society in America, and Mr. W. F. Dickson, Director, Russian Singer Company. An illustrated lecture upon the resources of Russia was given by Dr. J. M. Goldstein, Professor of Economics, Moscow University."
"The long-pending water power development bill received final action by Congress when the Senate approved the conference report by a vote of 45 to 21."
"One of the planks in the platform of the Republican Party at Chicago read as:"
"There will be held this year at Silver Bay, Lake George. New York, August 27th to 29th, a conference on “Human Relations in Industry.” Over six hundred representatives of industry are expected to attend, including some of the most prominent industrial leaders. Among the speakers who have already accepted are Mr. Allen T. Burns, Americanization Study of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching; Mr. F. J. Kingsbury. President, Bridgeport Brass Company; Mr. Clarence H. Howard, President, Commonwealth Steel Company; Mr. C. J. Hicks, Assistant to the President, Standard Oil Company; Mr. R. B. Wolf. Consulting Engineer; Mr. S. J. Carpenter, Lumber Manufacturer; Mr. L. P. Alford, Editor, Industrial Management; and Mr. Timothy Healy, International Brotherhood of Stationary Firemen."
"The American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers will hold its fall meeting in the Lake Superior, Copper and Iron districts, August 20 to September 3, 1920. Houghton will be the first general assemblying place, and from there a trip will be made by special trains to Duluth, one train by way of Ishpeming, another by Vulcan. From Duluth the guests may either return to Chicago by special train, or go to Buffalo by steamship."
"The election of the following officers of the Council of the Illuminating Engineering Society for the fiscal year 1920–1921, was confirmed by the Council on June 11th, 1920. These men were elected to fill the offices made vacant by expiration of terms: President: General George H. Harries; Vice-Presidents: H. F. Wallace, Dr. Geo. S. Crampton, J. J. Kirk; General Secretary: Clarence L. Law; Treasurer: L. B. Marks: Directors: Adolph Hertz, Walton Forstall, Frank S. Price."
"Organized by several national engineering societies, including the Institute, to represent their membership in matters of common interest, especially relationships of engineers to the public and to governments. Council is one result of a wide movement to enlarge the activities of engineers for patriotic, social and personal welfare."
"On March 12, 1920, the Congressional Joint Commission on Reclassification of Salaries presented its report to Congress. Ever since this report was made public, discussion concerning it has been rife, and naturally much misunderstanding about the recommendations regarding salary schedules and employment policies has gained currency. In an endeavor to clear up these misunderstandings and in order to present an analysis of the Commission's report, the Committee on Classification and Compensation of Engineers presents the accompanying table “Comparison of Report of the Congressional Joint Commission on Reclassification of Salaries with the December 1919 Report of Council's Committee.”"
"Definite arrangements have been made for the formulation of a considerable number of safety codes under the auspices and rules of procedure of the American Engineering Standards Committee. The subjects of the codes for which arrangements have been completed, together with the organizations which have been designated by the Committee to act as sponsors, and who have accepted such responsibility are as follows:"
"At a recent meeting of the American Engineering Standards Committee, five standard specifications were submitted by the American Society for Testing Materials for approval as “American Standards.”"
"At the request of the Swiss Standards Association, Baden, Switzerland, for cooperation in the work of standardization of ball bearings, the American Engineering Standards Committee requested the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the Society of Automotive Engineers to act as Joint Sponsors for the project. These societies have accepted the responsibility and are now organizing a Sectional Committee for the work. The Sectional Committee will be thoroughly representative of all the interests involved and is the body which will be responsible for the detailed formulation of the standards."
"The American delegates who attended the meetings of the Advisory Technical Committees of the International Electrotechnical Commission, at Brussels, March 27th to April 1st, were accompanied by P. G. Agnew, Secretary of the American Engineering Standards Committee, who later visited the national standardizing bodies in Belgium, England, France and Holland."
"Five additional bodies have been admitted to representation on the Main Committee of the American Engineering Standards Committee. They are: Electrical Manufacturers Council (Electric Power Club, Associated Manufacturers of Electrical Supplies, Electrical Manufacturers Club)"
"The National Research Council has elected the following officers for the year beginning July 1, 1920: Chairman, H. A. Bumstead, professor of physics and director of the Sloane physical laboratory, Yale University; First Vice-Chairman, C. D. Walcott, president of the National Academy of Sciences and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution; Second Vice-Chairman, Gano Dunn, president of the J. G. White Engineering Corporation, New York; Third Vice-Chairman, R. A. Millikan, professor of physics, University of Chicago; permanent secretary, Vernon Kellogg, professor of biology, Stanford University; Treasurer, F. L. Ransome, treasurer of the National Academy of Sciences."
"The annual meeting of the council of the Joseph A. Holmes Association was held on March 5, 1920, at Washington, D. C."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities, is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Carl A. Baer, of Carl A. Baer & Co., Engineers, Land Title Building, Philadelphia, announces that the firm's business will now be conducted under the name of Baer, Cooke & Company, Engineers, Land Title Building."
"Oliver B. Hodgson, lately connected with the Stone Franklin Company in the capacity of electrical engineer, died in New York on February 8, 1920, after a lingering illness. Mr. Hodgson was born in New York on November 20, 1887. He was graduated from Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, in 1908, and the following year entered the employ of the New York Central Railroad, specializing later in axle lighting apparatus. He left the New York Central in 1917 to become electrical engineer with the Stone Franklin Company, which position he held until September, 1919, when he resigned on account of poor health. Mr Hodgson joined the A. I. E. E. as Associate in 1910."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"THE Constitution prescribes that the President must deliver an address at the Annual Convenvention, — whether you want to hear it or not. It has been sometimes customary for the Executive who is about to retire from office to summarize the achievements of his term. It has seemed to me that these have been better chronicled as they occurred in the pages of your Journal. The pastime of prophecy has some attractions, but is of doubtful value, and somewhat dangerous as well. The advances in the art are well covered by many valuable technical papers of the year including those which are to be submitted at this Convention. There remain broad public questions regarding which engineers are peculiarly well qualified to have opinions and to influence the opinions of others and it has therefore seemed to me that I might perhaps come nearer justifying the constitutional provision by dealing with one of these."
"THE writer realizes in attempting to present any paper on as broad a subject as seems to be indicated by the one in hand that of necessity a great deal will have to be omitted and many subjects touched on but briefly which could well be analyzed to great length."
"THE production of artificial light is one of the most important activities concerning the welfare of humanity. It is a very large subject, since both its practical and theoretical aspects cover vast fields. Yet, there are less than a dozen distinct methods of making light artificially, and some of them are not developed commercially, although theoretically, they possess great possibilities."
"THE chairman of the Electrochemistry and Electrometallurgy Committee for the year 1917–1918 suggested to the Board of Directors of the American Electrochemical Society that it should approach the A. I. E. E. with the idea of forming a joint committee to consider matters that were of common interest to the two societies. Such a committee could consider papers which might be of importance to both societies, could bring to each society's attention matters of common interest and make arrangements for occasional joint meetings. The result was that the Board of the American Electrochemical Society appointed Messrs. Fink, Parmelee and Schluederberg “to cooperate with” this Committee."
"THE Instruments and Measurements Committee submits the following report covering its own activities during the past year and the developments and progress in that part of the electrical field covered by its title."
"FOLLOWING out the plan adopted last year as to the form of annual report to be submitted by the committee the following report includes references to technical progress only. The report is made up of contributions forwarded by each member of the committee."
"THE Committee on Transmission and Distribution submits the following report for the year 1919–1920:"
"DURING the Convention held at Lake Placid in June, 1919, Dr. C. P. Steinmetz in discussing the work of the technical committees of the Institute expressed the belief that the annual reports of such committees should be planned to provide for the use of the entire membership of the Institute, a comprehensive record of the present status and recent progress of electrical engineering in the particular industry or branch of the art to which each committee had been organized to apply itself."
"THE Industrial and Domestic Power Committee has continued its earlier plan of work without change or modification. We are convinced that it is sound. We know the results now appearing will justify the study. We strongly urge its continuance."
"IT will no doubt be recalled the inception of the Marine Committee was in 1913. Little actual work was accomplished by this Committee until last year, when the compilation of a set of rules for electrical installation on shipboard was started, together with dissemination of knowledge relative to that subject to the electrical engineers of the newly created ship yards."
"I BEG to submit on behalf of the Lighting and Illumination Committee the following report for the year 1919–20."
"DURING the year 1919–1920 the Committee held two meetings, mainly devoted to discussion of papers presented, in person by the writers for comments and suggestions. The contributions to the activities of the Institute under the auspices of this Committee were as follows:"
"THE Electrophysics Committee desires to receive suggestions for future work. It seems well, therefore, for this purpose to re-state from the report of last year the policy that this Committee has endeavored to carry out. It is as follows:"
"TWO meetings were held under the auspices of the Traction and Transportation Committee; one at the mid-winter convention in New York in February, and the other at a regular meeting of the Institute in Pittsburg, March, 1920."
"A description is given of the methods employed to dry out an electric generator, switchboard and motors which had been under water for more than a week in a flooded basement, the water being contaminated with sewage and sludge."
"W. S. Murray: It is certainly a great pleasure and honor to stand up before such an excellent gathering of my brother engineers. I do not think that we are here today to discuss the technical features of power generation, transmission, traction, and all such problems of electrical engineering with which we are so familiar. If I could accomplish the real objective of my standing before you today, it would be to infuse in you something which I believe to be right and something that we should do."
"The 36th Annual Convention of the A. I. E. E. held at the Greenbrier, White Sulphur Springs, June 29 to July 2, proved to be one of the most interesting and enjoyable conventions of recent years. The location was ideal, and the natural beauty of the West Virginia mountains lent added attraction to the abundant facilities provided for all kinds of outdoor recreations. Motoring, horseback riding, swimming and walking over the numerous mountain trails, were freely indulged in by a large number of those in attendance and the golf links and tennis courts were well patronized."
"The Pacific Coast Convention of the A. I. E. E. was held at the Multnomah Hotel, Portland, Oregon, July 21 to 24. The registered attendance was 251; the various technical sessions and entertainment features were exceedingly interesting and profitable to all who attended and reflected great credit upon the members responsible for the arrangement, including Mr. E. F. Whitney, Acting Chairman and Mr. W. C. Heston, Secretary of the Portland Section; and the Chairmen of Committees as follows: General Convention Committee, R. M. Boykin, Arrangements Committee, J. E. Yates, Entertainment, R. F. Monges, Program, O. B. Coldwell."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at The Greenbrier, White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., Wednesday, June 30, 1920, at 5:00 p.m."
"For the Sixth National Exposition of Chemical Industries which will be held in Grand Central Palace, New York, September 20 to September 25, inclusive, there are being arranged the biggest symposiums on Chemical Engineering ever carried out in this country. Up to the present four symposiums have been scheduled. One will be on Fuel Economy, one on Materials Handling, one under the general head of Chemical Engineering, and another on Industrial Management. Moving pictures have played a big part in previous chemical expositions but this year there will be a series of films which will far surpass anything before attempted. The majority of these are absolutely new, in fact some are still in the process of making."
"The Seventh Annual Meeting of the Telephone Pioneers of America will be held at Montreal, Canada, on September 10th and 11th, 1920, with headquarters at the Windsor Hotel. The Bell Telephone Company of Canada will provide entertainment for the members and their families on the 11th. For the trip, special accommodations have been arranged from New York and other points, providing for a side trip to Au Sable Chasm on the return, with a steamer trip through Lake George."
"One of the outstanding features of the Organizing Conference in Washington, June 3–4, 1920 was the enthusiastic interest and cooperation exhibited by the delegates of the local, state and regional engineering organizations. It is not surprising therefore that these organizations should be among the first to apply for membership in the Federated American Engineering Societies. In this connection it is interesting to note that the Technical Club of Dallas, at its meeting of June 22d made application for membership and at the same time filed its claim as being the first local organization to apply."
"The publication of a new review of wireless telegraphy, entitled Radioelectricite, will be of interest to technical men as well as to the general public. Radioelectricite has been constituted in France by highest men in science and industry, and for its technical part appeals to the most eminent scholars or men of genius. Information regarding the publication may be addressed to 12, Place de Laborde, Paris France."
"Certain engineers have recently proposed an endowed American Hydraulic Laboratory. There are many needed contributions to hydraulic engineering and the underlying science which can best be made by a laboratory with sufficient resources. Numerous problems relating to power development, water supply, irrigation, sewerage, river improvement and other practical applications of hydraulics await solution by the work of competent experimenters in such a laboratory."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Charles O. Rauschkolb has been put in charge of a new sales office and service station of the Wagner Electric Manufacturing Company at No. 2007 South Ervay Street, Dallas, Texas."
"Lewis T. Glaser formerly electrical engineer with the Municipal Electric Light Plant of Cleveland, Ohio, died on June 8, 1920, after a lingering illness. Mr. Glaser started his electrical work in 1910 with the Wenatchee Valley Gas & Electric Company, Washington as a meter tester. In four years he became Assistant Superintendent. He then entered the employ of the Cleveland Municipal plant in charge of underground construction, wiring, switchboards, etc. Mr. Glaser was elected an Associate in the Institute in 1914."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"“Romance of a Great Factory” presents the human interest side of present day industry as typified in a great factory, that of the General Electric Company at Schenectady, New York. While avowing that “with no effort to produce ‘literature’, these stories were hastily dictated while still under the spell of the spectacular and awe-inspiring scenes witnessed on various trips through our great factory employing nearly twenty-five thousand men”, the author suceeds in putting before the reader a vivid and realistic picture of the factory life, with the shop worker and his interests in the foreground, and with a back ground of scientific and statistical information that adds to its value."
"During the year 1920 the people of the United States will pay out for automobiles, not commercial trucks or farm tractors, but pleasure vehicles, a sum of money considerably greater than the estimated requirements of our steam railways for that year. The railways however, may find it very difficult and perhaps impossible to secure the large sums needed without government aid, notwithstanding the fact that the continued operation and expansion of our roads are of vital necessity to the welfare and prosperity of the country and all its industries. The will of the American public has always been constructive and undoubtedly, in due time, its voice will be heard and properly interpreted by its representatives in Washington with the resulting enactment of such laws as will permit our railways again to offer an attractive field for the investment of private capital."
"THE super-power plan, briefly summarized, provides a means by which a present estimated machine capacity of 17,000,000 horse power — divided 10,000,000 for industrial purposes and 7,000,000 for the railroads — in a region between Boston and Washington and inland from the coast 100 to 150 miles, now operating with a load factor not exceeding 15 per cent, can be lifted to a load factor of greater than 50 per cent and possibly to 60 per cent, and a means by which, conservatively speaking, one ton of coal will do the work of two, and the railroads within the above zone, and those carrying coal into that zone will be relieved of transporting one-half the amount of coal required for power and lighting purposes. In short, the value of machine capacity from a utilization standpoint will be increased three to fourfold, and coal resources for the purposes named conserved twofold."
"The paper describes a series of tests of the disturbance caused in a uniform alternating magnetic field by an incoming magnetic mass looking to the development of a device for the detection of enemy submarines. Detection tests in the laboratory with submarine models 10 ft. long are in agreement with underlying theory and may be used as a basis for the design of larger equipment. Detection tests on steel hulls from shore equipment and from equipment installed on a wooden submarine chaser 110 ft. long are in good agreement with results predicted from a formula developed in the laboratory tests. By sufficient increases in the size of the equipment it is possible, in quiet water, to detect a steel vessel 200 ft. long at a distance of 500 ft. The weight of equipment required would be about 8000 lb. Distances of detection in the neighborhood of 200 ft. were obtained in quiet water with equipment weighing 4500 lb. installed on a wooden submarine chaser 110 ft. long. The reliability of the system of detection is immediately impaired by motion of the vessel, due to her engines, heavy sea, and changes of course, or speed. The results mentioned involve the use of amplifier tubes for enlarging the signal. Without the amplifier the distances of detection are very short, even when a large magnet or large detecting coil and an extremely sensitive detecting instrument are used. With amplifier, detecting coil and detecting instrument higher sensitivities may be reached than can be used in the detection tests. Disturbances in the detecting system fix the limit for increasing sensitivity. These disturbances are amplified and appear in the detecting instrument as larger than the signal sought."
"THE purchase prices of most essentials, not to mention luxuries, of life are now abnormally high. Can the engineer do anything about it except pay and grin? My good friend, George F. Swain, of Boston, says that the engineer is the antithesis of the idealist and that the idealist is a most dangerous individual. The engineer approaches a problem with an open mind, first obtains all the available facts and then reaches his conclusion and bases his action on these facts. The idealist on the contrary, first pictures the ideal result which he would like to obtain and proceeds to make his facts fit — if they do not, so much worse for the facts. In discussing higher prices, let me see if I can qualify under Professor Swain's definition of an engineer. The first question that arises is “Why are prices high?” And the answer to this question is almost if not quite obvious. Prices are high because costs are high and costs are high because wages have gone up. Of course material as well as labor goes into cost, but material in the last analysis is very largely labor because, for example, coal, iron, copper, lumber and other raw materials, forming the bulk of those used, are governed as to their cost by the wages paid to produce them. It is also alleged, and with reason, that prices of some commodities are higher than the increased costs justify because their distributors have taken advantage of existing conditions to reap abnormal profits. This no doubt is so to a limited extent. It can hardly be claimed to be true in general and certainly not to such an extent as to disprove the statement that prices are high because costs are high. Following the analysis, if prices are high because costs are high and costs are high because wages have increased, the next question is “Why have wages increased and in what way, up or down, may wages be expected to change in the future?” We have all heard much about the “awakening” of labor and its determination to hereafter demand and obtain a greater “share in the reward of its products.” Our recent history is not lacking in examples of efforts on the part of workmen to benefit through organization and collective bargaining, effects crowned with no mean measure of success, but of catch phrases and slogans it perhaps may be said that they lack a sufficiently definite meaning to be interpreted alike by all. A catch phrase can frequently be made to mean whatever its user wants it to mean over wide limits. Let us therefore adhere to a terminology of which the meaning is understood by all and which is always the same. First of all what do we mean by “labor” and “capital?” Perhaps we all ought to understand what these words mean but do we? If we say that “labor” is the performance of manual work and “capital” is accumulated money, it can be pointed out that many are classed with labor who do no manual work while a large number have accumulated money who are not capitalists. Possibly the walking delegate's definition would be that a laborer is one who works all the time for pay but never has any money and a capitalist is one who has money all the time but never does any work. Both of these are manifestly incorrect definitions. For the purpose of avoiding misleading terms perhaps we can dodge the issue by not using them in the present discussion and instead of referring to capital and labor speak of the “employer” and the “employee” although even then it becomes necessary to explain the term “employer” to include not only him who pays for the services of others with his own money but also him who directs the work of others while himself employed and also to limit the term “employee” to those who do not so direct the work of others. Is there any good reason to believe that a “new order” of things has been created that the working man or employee will hereafter “demand” and what is more to the point obtain a greater share of the reward of his labor and that therefore wages and consequently the cost of everything into which labor enters will stay up and may even go higher? Has there been anything which may properly be called an “awakening” of labor? The only evidence that I can find to support such an idea is the undeniable fact that beginning in 1914 the employee has demanded and has obtained a greatly increased wage and of course we know it is human nature to get all we are able and to keep it if we can. But these plain facts do not prove the reasons why. The working man like every other man has in the past always wanted all he could get and human nature today has neither gained nor lost cupidity. There is no indication of a “new order” in these facts."
"BEFORE dealing with any of the specific problems involved in changing 33-cycle equipment to 60-cycle operation, it would be well to review a few historical facts which were responsible for the two frequencies now in use on the system of the Portland Railway, Light and Power Company of Portland, Oregon."
"CONSIDER a symmetrical arrangement, i. e. supposing the planes containing the conductors to be horizontal then the horizontal projections of the conductors shall bisect each other."
"UNTIL recent years, street lighting in the United States has been almost exclusively by the high-voltage constant-current series system, either direct current or alternating current, and low-voltage constant-potential multiple systems have been used to a very limited extent only. This was for two reasons, one social-political, the other electrical."
"The alternating-current commutator motor in its various forms has been developed principally for the purpose of obtaining adjustable or variable speeds, the usual induction type motor, both in the single-phase and polyphase forms, being inherently constant speed. In general, control of speed with the alternating-current induction motor implies variable or adjustable frequency in some form, and this, in turn, involves a commutator of some type. In consequence, the problem of commutating alternating current usually goes hand in hand with that of speed control. The simplest method, according to the author, for viewing both the a-c. and the d-c. commutating problems, is to consider primarily the actual e.m.fs. short-circuited by the brushes, and the resistance in the short-circuited paths, — or in other words, the problem of commutation is largely one of the permissible amount of short-circuited current. In the d-c. machine the e.m.f. short-circuited by the brushes is that generated by rotation of the short-circuited armature coils in the armature and external field fluxes. In the same way, in the a-c. commutator motor, there is an e.m.f. due to the armature flux or field, as in the d-c. machine, and in addition, there are other e.m.fs. due to the primary or field fluxes. These latter may be classified as primary rotational and transformer e.m.fs. One limitation in the design of a-c. commutator motors, in general, is that these rotational and transformer e.m.fs. are often larger in degree than the e.m.f. due to the armature flux. However, the author contends that the commutation problem in a-c. motors is the same as for d. c. when all e.m.fs. are taken into account. The major part of the paper covers the consideration of the different e.m.fs. which should be taken into account in the various types of a-c. commutator motors, and it is shown in a general way that the e.m.fs. involved in speed control also appear in the commutation problem. In the latter part of the paper certain general conditions of commutation and brush operation are treated and some figures are given for comparison of a-c. and d-c. commutating limits."
"This paper reviews the broad range of conditions to which railway automatic substations have been applied and also discusses the economies and operating advantages effected by their use. A description is given of the modern equipment with details of its operation. Special reference is made to improvements in design of control apparatus, to the positive sequence of starting the machines and the protection afforded the apparatus against overloads or other irregularaties either outside or internal to the stations."
"The author includes an outline of the progress made in protection of direct-current machinery from short circuits since the publication of a paper at Atlantic City on this subject. The improvements mentioned include the refinement and perfection in details of the flash barriers; a new design of high-speed circuit breaker for both direct-current substations and electric locomotives; a new high reluctance commutating pole for 60-cycle synchronous converters and a new design of protected brush holder. An instructive analysis of conditions during direct-current short circuits is shown by several photographs, oscillographs and diagrams. Special reference is made to operating results on the electric zone of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad."
"On Friday March 12, 1920 the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will hold its 358th Meeting under the auspices, jointly, of the Pittsburgh Section and the Traction and Transportation Committee. The headquarters for the meeting will be the William Penn Hotel. The Board of Directors and the various committees will hold their sessions in the morning. The Board will meet at the Duquesne Club where luncheon will be served. During the morning there will be offered the opportunity to take an inspection trip through the Westinghouse Works concluding with a luncheon to be served to all as guests of the Company. Technical sessions will be held in the afternoon and evening. A subscription dinner will be served in the Ball Room of the William Penn Hotel at 6:15 p. m."
"Boston, April 9, 1920. — The Boston meeting of the Institute will be held jointly with the American Electrochemical Society and will be under the auspices of the Boston Section and the Committee on Electrochemistry and Electrometallurgy. Tentative plans have been arranged as follows: On Thursday, April 8, the American Electrochemical Society will hold meetings, morning and afternoon at M. I. T., and members of the Institute are cordially invited to attend. On Thursday evening at 8:30 p. m. a Get-together Smoker is planned by the A. E. C. S. at the Copley Plaza Hotel to which all Institute members are invited. On Friday, April 9, a joint session will be held at 9:30 a. m. for the presentation and discussion of a symposium “Electrically Produced Alloys.” In the afternoon an inspection trip will be made to the laboratories of the General Electric Company at Lynn where talks on research work at the laboratories will be delivered by Professor Elihu Thompson and others. At 6:30 p. m. a Subscription Dinner will be served at the Copley Plaza at $4.00 per plate. At 8:30 p. m. the evening session will be held at the Copley Plaza where a symposium will be presented on “Power for Electrochemical Purposes.” The A. E. C. S. will continue its meetings on Saturday. The plans outlined are subject to change and the final program will be published in the April Journal."
"Cleveland. — March 16, 1920. Subject: “The Vacuum Tube and Some of its Applications.” Speaker: Mr. J. W. White, General Electric Company."
"At Lake Placid in June when after full discussion and some amendments you endorsed the report of your Development Committee you took a step of far reaching importance, the effect of which it is difficult to now predict. I refer particularly to that part of the report which deals with the desirability of greater participation in public affairs by the engineer and which recommends that the Institute cooperate with other engineering bodies in an effort to bring this about."
"A conference of the governing bodies of its Member Societies called by Engineering Council, was held January 23 in Engineering Societies Building, New York, to discuss relations of Engineering Council and the bodies which it represents, to the engineering profession. The societies represented at the conference were the American Society of Civil Engineers, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Society for Testing Materials, and the United Engineering Society."
"The Institute held its Eighth Annual Midwinter Convention, February 18 to 20, 1920 in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York. The total attendance of members and guests was about 1100."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, February 18, 1920, at 10:30 a. m."
"The Institute has just received through the Director, Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, Dept. of Commerce notice of a General Engineering Congress to be held at Batavia, Java in May 1920. Two languages, namely: English and Dutch will be employed during the Congress and all publications will be published in both languages. The official opening of the Congress will take place at 7 p. m. May 8th and the program embodying regular sessions, excursions, dinners, etc. will extend to Saturday May 15."
"The Surplus Account on December 31, 1918 showed a balance of $5,533.43. This amount has been increased by the surplus from the operating accounts during the year of $9,557.28 making a total on December 31, 1919 of $15,090.71. Of this amount $10,000.00 has been transferred to Depreciation and Renewal Fund, leaving a balance in Surplus Account of $5,090.71."
"The 11th Annual Dinner of The Engineers of Boston and Vicinity will be held on Tuesday evening March 30th, in the main auditorium of The Boston City Club, dinner at 6.15: addresses 7:45. The principle speakers and their subjects will be, Paul D. Cravath, “Some Economic Aspects of the Treaty at Paris;” Dean Roscoe Pound, “Social Engineering.” Paul D. Cravath, Attorney, New York City, was one of the American Representatives at Paris during the War. Dean Roscoe Pound is Dean of the Law School of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. The dinner is under the auspices of The Boston Section A. I. E. E. and A. S. M. E. and the Boston Society of Civil Engineers. It is, however, open without further invitation to members of any other societies and in fact anyone interested in the engineering profession whether society member or not. Tickets $3.75, obtainable from Ira Cushing, 84 State St., Boston, Mass."
"Organized by several national engineering societies, including the Institute, to represent their membership in matters of common interest, especially relationships of engineers to the public and to governments. Council is one result of a wide movement to enlarge the activities of engineers for patriotic, social and personal welfare."
"In order to determine what is a fair rate of compensation for engineering service at the present time, the question may be approached from two different points of view: First, what increase should be made in engineers' pay to compensate for the great reduction in the value of the dollar which has taken place in the last five years? Second, how may the intrinsic value of engineering service be determined?"
"After almost three years of investigation by the engineering fraternity, under the guidance of Professor Comfort A. Adams as Chairman, the revised constitution of the American Engineering Standards Committee, along with by-laws and rules of procedure, has been adopted, and has been ratified by the A. S. C. E., the A. I. M. &. M. E., the A. S. M. E., the A. I. E. E. and the A. S. T. M., and the three Government Departments, of Commerce, Navy and War. Each of these interests have three representatives, and although the Committee as it exists today consists of twenty-four members, the new Committee is of very wide scope and allows the direct or indirect participation of anyone interested in standardization."
"As this issue goes to press, it appears probable that the Water Power Bill, which has passed both the House and Senate, will come up for active consideration before the conference committee within a few days. This is made possible because the conferees serving both on the Railroad Conference Committee and Power Conference Committee, were released when that Bill was agreed to and sent back for final passage. It is contemplated that at least a month will be required for the adjustments which will be made in conference."
"In the address of President Townley at the opening session of the Midwinter Convention of the Institute, which is printed in full elsewhere in this issue, attention is called to the desirability of the Institute confining its activities to matters within the scope of engineering or closely allied subjects."
"This is a full size reproduction of a new membership badge, which has now been provided to meet numerous requests of Institute members for a smaller emblem. This badge which is half the size of the original is available in the vest pin, lapel button and scarf pin styles only, all patterns in solid 14k gold and finished in the same style as the larger membership badge. The lapel button is equipped with a screw back of plated gold. The price of the vest pin and lapel button styles is $3.00, and the scarf pin $3.50."
"On December 8th there was held at the Bureau of Standards in Washington a conference on industrial safety codes, at which there were representatives of practically all national organizations interested in industrial safety. The conference grew out of an earlier one held on January 15th, 1919."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours arc 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Walter James Warder, Jr., late Electrical Engineer with Roth Bros. & Co., Chicago, Ill., died on January 20, 1920. Mr. Warder, born Aug. 14, 1879, had his technical training in the Lewis Institute, Chicago, where he was a student for three years. His work in the engineering field lay in the design, manufacture, and application of electrical machinery. At first he was connected with the Western Electric Co. as electrical engineer, later with Roth Bros. & Co. as chief engineer, and a Director of the Company, He joined the A. I. E. E. as Associate in 1903, and became a Fellow in 1913."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities, is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear in the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"The practicability of electric traction in the zone under contemplation. Table II is indeed a consolidation of interesting facts and I am pleased to note that he arrives at 14,000,000 tons of coal as the amount to be saved by electric traction over-steam which is 2,000,000 tons greater than the figures I have named in an approximate preliminary study of the situation. On the other hand, I think Mr. Potter has been conservative on his estimate regarding the maintenance figures as I believe the savings here will be much more rather than “more” in the amount he has named."
"The series system of distribution has been used almost universally for street lighting since the first use of electric lamps. Lamps, both arc and incandescent are very simple and more efficient when designed for series operation than are the multiple type. The maintenance of constant power at the lamp terminals where lamps are thinly scattered over a wide area is much easier with a series system of distribution than with any other system. The burning of all street lamps in the city for certain specified hours makes it desirable to turn the whole circuit on and off from a certain point so that such a system whether series or multiple cannot be used to distribute power for other purposes. As therefore, a special system is necessary for the street lamps, it has usually been made of the series type for the above reasons. The special apparatus required to operate a series system from constant potential is very simple and inexpensive. The constant-current moving-coil transformer is the main factor in the maintenance of the necessary constant current. The film cut-out socket for the lamp enables the continuity of the circuit to be maintained when the incandescent lamp breaks or is removed. Both are very simple and reliable even with unskilled operators. Any system of street lighting of sufficient merit to supersede the series system must depend primarily on the development of simple, reliable and inexpensive control apparatus for the individual lamps to enable them to be operated on the existing multiple distribution circuits."
"The wider use of multiple lamps supplied from standard secondary distribution systems is considered as a step in simplifying operating problems and reducing the disproportionate cost which goes to cover fixed charges on special equipment and additional lines for street lighting only. The advantages in simplicity and flexibility of multiple connected lamps are discussed with particular reference to the frequent changes and extensions of street lighting service required in growing cities. The more general adoption of multiple street lighting is stated to be contingent upon fuller standardization of suitable methods of control applicable generally to existing electrical power distribution systems. Different devices in use or proposed for control of multiple street lamps are briefly described and the characteristics desirable in such apparatus are outlined. Attention is directed to the small differences in efficiency of present multiple and series incandescent lamps."
"The paper is a plea for a wider use of acoustic signals in industrial plants. It is shown that much time is wasted by the officials, experts, and important employees in trying to locate each other. With loud acoustic signals installed throughout a plant, in the shops, yards, and offices, it becomes possible to locate any of a considerable number of men instantly, using a simple code call for each. Such calls could be given only imperfectly by pushing a button, and for this reason a special code calling instrument has been developed, which closes electric contacts automatically, after having been set for a desired combination. The actual conditions and the needs for acoustic signals are discussed in application to steel mills, shipyards, textile mills, printing establishments, coal mines, construction jobs, etc. It is shown that in addition to code calls, audible signals and particularly electric horns are used with advantage as extensions to telephone bells in noisy places, and also as warning signals for various purposes. The general scope of the forthcoming art of acoustic engineering is then discussed, and its importance is shown in design of theaters, churches, and large auditoriums; also in the installation of fog signals. The problem of measurement of sound intensity is then taken up and the available means and devices are described. It is also shown that sound waves may be directly photographed under proper conditions and the laws of their propagation studied. Attention is called to the importance of experimental and theoretical study of the modes of vibrations of diaphragms used in acoustic devices."
"I ACCEPTED, with considerable hesitation, the invitation to address you on the general subject of the relations of pure and applied science; and in particular of physics and engineering. Two yearsago, Colonel Carty in his presidential address to the A. I. E. E. spoke upon this subject in a way which met with the hearty approval of all physicists. He has done more than most to foster cooperation between us and to bring about great practical results by utilizing the method of scientific research. What is there left for me to say? One thing that I want to say is that Colonel Carty in his addresses has very generously acknowledged the debt which applied science owes to what is called pure science, and I wish to emphasize the reciprocal obligation. There is the obvious indebtedness for improved and convenient apparatus, material and machinery. How fast should we get on if we had, like Faraday, to insulate our own wire and make electromagnets out of links of anchor chain? The co-existence in cooperation between the two phases of science, which we call pure and applied, is of the very essence of the spirit and method of modern science, and is necessary to its existence."
"This is intended to be a semi-historical treatment of the engineering development of the synchronous converter as the author saw it. This development occurred over a long period of years and much of this was done inside of the electrical manufacturing companies, rather than in the operating field. In consequence, the many stages which eventually led to the great success of this type of electrical machine are but little known to the electrical public. The various steps in the development are described, covering many of the earlier troubles, and methods tried for overcoming them. The early evidences of hunting which eventually led up to the use of copper dampers; e. m. f. regulation; 60 cycle converters with their ups and downs and final success; the three-wire converter; the inverted converter; the application of commutating poles; the coming of the synchronous booster and the split pole types of converters, — all appear in the story, along with little incidents connected with the engineering and commercial side of the growth. Much of the material of the paper is given directly from the author's memory, checked at times by such technical data as were available. Representing principally the author's personal contact with the development, the story naturally cannot be considered as covering competitors' apparatus except in a very casual way. Errors of omission may thus be numerous, though unavoidable."
"I AM not fearful of being misunderstood when I say: “Proud as I am of my country, I challenge the denial that we have been a profligate and wasteful nation in the extreme. Drunk with the wealth of our natural resources we have eschewed their conservation and rolled in a criminal debauch of their treasure.” These are strong words, but I deliver them to strong men."
"IN view of the growing popularity and importance of the synchronous motor as one of the standard types of motor available for power distribution purposes, and its increasing use as a means of improving the power factor of a load, no apology seems necessary for a paper containing a detailed study of the behavior of such a motor during what has always been regarded as a somewhat critical period — viz., the period when the motor is being accelerated from rest to synchronous speed. The subject is by no means a new one, and has already been dealt with by several writers, not, however, in a manner sufficiently thorough and exhaustive to make further contributions to it superfluous, and one of the main objects of the present paper is to explain a number of hitherto somewhat obscure points, and to draw attention to others which have not previously been noticed."
"THE report of the Development Committee of the Institute as approved at the Lake Placid Convention, contained a section calling attention to the fact that “engineers do not participate as actively or as prominently in public affairs as they should and that both the public welfare and their own individual advancement would be promoted if this condition could be rectified.”"
"THE Steamship Wulsty Castle is at present the only British electrically propelled seagoing ship in commission, and developments are being closely watched by certain prominent British shipping concerns which are keeping the electric ship propulsion proposition steadily in view."
"THE U. S. S. Tennessee, which is now rapidly-approaching completion, will be the second battleship to be equipped with electric propulsive machinery. The New Mexico, which was placed in operation about a year ago, has demonstrated the success of this system of propulsion. The U. S. S. Tennessee differs in a number of respects from the U. S. S. New Mexico, mainly in connection with the layout of the machinery and the details of the electrical apparatus installed. The New Mexico was originally designed for direct-connected turbines and was adapted to electric drive with minor structural changes. Full advantage was not taken, therefore, of the characteristics of electrical drive which allow of the apparatus to be disposed in the most suitable manner. In the case of the U. S. S. Tennessee full advantage has been taken of the flexibility in the arrangement of the electrical machinery, and therefore this ship will be the first which will illustrate completely what can be done with electric drive."
"IT is coming to be more and more widely recognized that the only effective remedy for the abnormal economic conditions which have resulted in successively higher prices and higher wages lies in increasing production and increasing savings. Produce all you can and save all you can is the solution of the present economic difficulties, and this thought is admirably expressed in the following paragraphs by Albert W. Atwood in the Saturday Evening Post:"
"DIELECTRIC losses in cables depend upon the characteristics of the current, the dimensions of the cable and the specific qualities of the insulation. In order to compare the specific qualities of different insulations with respect to dielectric losses, it is desirable to find a method of expressing these specific qualities independently of current characteristics and cable dimensions. This will permit different insulations to be compared even when tests are made at different voltages, or on cables of different sizes. A method of attaining this result is here suggested."
"IN MY address before the A. I. E. E. in 1916, to which Dr. Bumstead very kindly referred, I laid stress upon the importance of research conducted solely for the advancement of science. I testified to the great debt which applied scientists owed to the pure scientists, and I suggested that the industries owed an immense debt to science which they should pay by liberal contribution to those scientists, who, conducting experiments solely for the increase of knowledge, and without any expectation of pecuniary gain, give their services to this work. That paper was very well received, and I have been very much gratified to see how much good it has done to workers in pure science and among the physicists, particularly in gaining them recognition, for it appears that, as representing the American Institute of Electrical Engineers I had said something from the practical side which, if said by the theoretical or academic scientists, would not have had so much weight."
"It should be added also, that when the Westinghouse engineers added copper dampers to their laminated poles and thus stopped hunting, they discovered that difference in wave form was not controlling, in any sense, and they saw why the first General Electric converters, with their solid poles, apparently had hunted less than the Westinghouse, due to the damping currents in the poles themselves."
"The Journal, formerly called the Proceedings, appears this month in a new form. The changes in name, size, and scope constitute one result of the deliberations of the Institute's Committee on Development, which formulated recommendations embodying improvements in the activities of the Institute, based upon the response of the membership to the Committee's request for suggestions."
"The 357th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Chicago, Ill., January 9, 1920, under the auspices of the Chicago Section and the Lighting and Illumination Committee. The Western Society of Engineers and the Chicago Section of the Illuminating Engineering Society have been invited to participate in this meeting."
"Midwinter Convention, February 18–20, 1920. The Eighth Midwinter Convention of the Institute will be held in New York, February 18, 19 and 20, 1920. While the details of the program have not yet been completed the tentative arrangements may be summarized as follows:"
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held December 12, the Edison Medal Committee reported that the Edison Medal for the year 1919 had been awarded to Mr. W. L. R. Emmet, “for inventions and developments of electrical apparatus and prime movers.” Arrangements will be made for the presentation of the Medal to Mr. Emmet at a convenient later date."
"At the November meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute a petition was presented, signed by more than one hundred members in New York City and vicinity, requesting authority to organize a New York Section, to be conducted under the same general plan as the other thirty-four Sections of the Institute. The Institute's Committee on Development had also recommended that a New York Section be formed."
"The following report of a committee of the Spokane Section, which was approved by the Section at a meeting held November 14, includes the recommendation that an additional grade of membership be established."
"As provided in Section 20 of the Institute By-laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the officers to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1920, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than fifty members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1920. For the convenience of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available. A member is not limited in the number of candidates he may endorse in this manner."
"The Secretary of the Treasury has approved and forwarded to Congress estimates for next year which total the unusually large sum of $283,921,810. The appropriations for public works during the fiscal year 1920 total $93,872,092. The estimates for work of particular interest to engineers and constructors are as follows:"
"A very comprehensive report has been submitted by the Secretary of Navy covering activities through November 1st, 1919. This report shows the number, type and cost of all aircraft built, building, and under contract to be built, the number of and type of aircraft to be constructed in Government plants, for which material has been delivered or ordered."
"A conference on Industrial Safety Codes was held at the Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C., on December 8, 1919. In the absence from Washington of the Director of the Bureau, Dr. S. W. Stratton, the meeting was called to order by Dr. E. B. Rosa, who summarized the events leading up to this conference and referred especially to the proceedings of the similar conference held on January 15th, of which this in a sense was an adjourned meeting. The principal subjects which came up at the January conference were the reorganization of the American Engineering Standards Committee, and the question of whether the safety work of the Bureau of Standards should be conducted under the scheme of procedure laid down by that committee."
"The Institute, together with other national engineering societies, is represented upon a considerable number of committees, commissions, and other organizations formed for the purpose of cooperation upon matters of common interest. The terms of a number of these representatives have expired or are about to expire, and at the meeting of the Board of Directors held December 12, action was taken as follows:"
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"THIS paper deals rather briefly at first with the earlier history of arc welding apparatus discussing the increased efficiency of the constant-potential welding circuit and decreased size and cost of the apparatus by changing the generated circuit potential from 75 to 60 volts. Curves are given showing the efficiency increase and also the disadvantages attending any material decrease of the circuit potential below 60 volts."
"FOLLOWING the original experiments of Mr. L. W. Chubb in 1905, machines were built for welding wires by the electro-percussive process and these have been used in a limited way for lamp leads, copper terminals on aluminum coils and similar applications."
"THE U. S. Light & Heat Corporation produces only the single-circuit or single-operator type of arc welding machine, wherein control of the current accompanying inverse changes in arc voltage and length is accomplished by inherent action of the machine windings, unaided by interposed circuit resistors."
"AMONG the requirements which must be met by arc welding equipments are simplicity and reliability. Their importance is increased by the fact that in a great many cases these equipments are installed and operated in locations where no trained electrical help is available. A new type of arc welding generator is described which inherently possesses the electrical characteristics desirable for single operator arc welding generators. This results in the elimination of external resistors or other regulating devices since the generator delivers at its terminals the voltage required by the arc and the current for which the equipment is adjusted."
"THE subject of power factor in THE subject of power factor in polyphase circuits has been the center of increasing discussion in recent years. No agreement has yet been reached upon a definition of the term as applied to polyphase circuits, nor even upon the underlying purpose which a definition should serve to express. In the absence of a practical commercial incentive to a universally accepted understanding as to the purpose and use of the term, little progress has been made toward such an understanding."
"IN a single-phase circuit the various factors relating to power and energy are very clearly defined. For example, power is defined as the rate of energy transfer; apparent power is defined as the product of the r. m. s. value of voltage across the circuit by the value of the current in the circuit."
"THE object of this paper is two-fold, first, to give a scientific definition of power factor, and, second, to describe devices for measuring power factor and devices for measuring unbalance of a polyphase system."
"THE Special Joint Committee on Determination of Power Factor in Polyphase Circuits has formulated two definitions for this factor."
"THE use of a number of different definitions of “power factor” as applied to unbalance polyphase system has led to much confusion. The present paper points out the mutual relations of a number of possible definitions and their relative merits for specific types of circuits."
"THIS paper is a more complete presentation of the subject of power representation by means of symmetrical coordinates, which was briefly outlined in the author's paper on Symmetrical Co-ordinates presented at the 30th Annual Convention, 1918."
"DEFINITION No. 1 in the Committee's report gives a numerical relation applicable to any polyphase circuit, which is also intended to give a measure, as a general average, of the greater outlay of apparatus and plant that the supply of unbalanced loads entails. Without attempting to state whether such numerical averaging gives a fair compromise measure of the added economical burden of carrying unbalanced loads, it is important that we definitely and clearly describe the results of the applications of this definition No. 1. For this purpose I submit in the table herewith comparative results of the amount of capacity of electrical equipment required for generating and transmitting a unit amount of power under different conditions of unbalancing, all giving the same average value of power factor definition No. 1:"
"In a single-phase or balanced polyphase circuit, the two factors which are contributory to power factors less than unity are wave distortion and phase displacement between current and voltage. In the paper the influence of wave shape is not considered, since in most large modern systems the wave form is nearly sinusoidal. The paper covers balanced and unbalanced polyphase systems without neutral current."
"THIS paper covers the development of formulas and curve data which permit of the ready calculation of the eddy current losses in armature conductors."
"THE general public undoubtedly thinks of the size of a machine in terms of its physical dimensions or the work it can do. To the engineer, largeness involves the difficulties inherent in the design and construction. To him, a 5000 kv-a. generator at 3600 revs. per min. is large, while a 20,000 kv-a. generator at 100 revolutions is not large if considered strictly with reference to the temperature problem."
"The writer classifies fifty-five generator failures of which he has a record or report. The machines are installed in different parts of this country. Their capacities range from 5000 to 30,000, the smaller size dating back from twelve to sixteen years, and the larger being of more recent manufacture."
"THERE are four effective materials concerned in turbo-generator operation, namely, the iron for magnetic purposes, the copper in the windings, the insulation encasing the windings and the ventilating air. As the iron and copper have long since been carried to their practical limits, it follows that the major part of recent developments has been in the insulation and the ventilation. In fact, it may be said that the present commercial insulations for such apparatus have been utilized fairly well up to their limits for some years. Therefore, it follows that the more recent growth in large turbo-generator work has been largely along the lines of improved methods of heat dissipation, that is, of improved air circulation."
"ENGINEERS are interested in the maximum armature coil temperatures and in the average temperature of the embedded portion of the coil. Only the former are discussed at length in the paper, and test data are submitted to bear out the statements; in general the test data include temperature measurements on the bare copper."
"THE practical problem of calculating the magnetic force tending to open a disconnecting switch is a useful one to solve. The result is expressed in concise form in formulas (20) and (21) and curves are also given in Figs. 3 and 4 from which the force may be found without using the formulas."
"THE authors have presented experimental data together with a physical explanation of the phenomena revealed. They have endeavored as far as possible to abstain from mathematics and obstruse theoretical considerations."
"WITH the increasing use of electric power, the size of electric generating systems has steadily increased, from the small high-frequency stations of the early days, to the huge metropolitan systems of today. This created the problem of limiting the destructiveness of the power which can accidently be concentrated at any point of the system."
"IT is the purpose of this paper (a) to discuss the factors which determine the selection of an exciter system for a generating station and (b) to discuss other general design features of excitation systems. No attempt is made to recommend any particular system for general application but rather to present a method analyzing the problem for a particular case."
"REALIZING that the excitation system is an important factor in successful operation of a large turbo-generator plant, careful attention should be given to the design of a most practical scheme. Underlying principles like simplicity, measured reliability, limited flexibility should not be lost sight of. Probabilities, rather than all possibilities should be carefully weighed and provisions made to meet only the former, rather than introduce a complication of safeguards just as apt to cause trouble."
"IN laying out excitation systems for central power stations continuity of service is the primary requirement. First cost and economy in operation are secondary requirments which must be given due weight."
"THE purpose of the paper is to discuss some of the problems which arise in connection with the use of d-c. machines as exciters; such as choice, range and stability of exciter voltage, stability of parallel operation, responsiveness, use of main rheostats, and use of compound field windings."
"EXCITER practise in existing Pacific Coast plants is indicated in a table giving the number and size of generators, the number and size of exciters with their drive, the manner of connection and whether a regulator is used or not, for the largest or newest hydroelectric plant of each large power company in British Columbia, Washington, Oregon and California."
"THE writers describe the installation and operation of exciters at the generating stations and substation of the Southern California Edison Company. The system includes two 240-mile, 150,000-volt lines, which constitute probably the most extreme range of excitation of any system in operation."
"AT a point on the Little Tennessee River a short distance above the mouth of the Cheoah River in North Carolina, the Knoxville Power Company has completed within the past year, the first portion of an extensive hydroelectric development. The ultimate development will require the tying together of a number of plants scattered over a large area and it was therefore necessary to choose powerhouse and transmission line equipment which would be best adapted to the entire system."
"A discussion of the factors entering into the design and operating behavior of suspension insulators and the problems to be solved in designing a suspension insulator to overcome the objectionable features shown by experience to affect seriously the operation of the insulators in service. Factors to be taken into consideration in the selection of suspension insulators for a given condition are given and a brief discussion of the general trend of future improvements is presented."
"WITH most theories on commutation the sparking voltage between commutator segments or the average voltage across the brush is used as the principal criterion for the commutation. More recently the idea has been advanced that the problem of commutation is very much the same in d-c. and a-c. machines as long as in both types of machines the sparking voltage is properly taken into account. It has also been shown by extensive data collected under practical operation that certain sparking voltages will have very similar effect in both a-c. and d-c. machines if other conditions are kept alike.2 This should not be construed, however, to mean that the sparking voltage is the only important factor which enters into the commutating problem, especially into the wear of the carbons and the commutator. In other words, while it is true that the sparking voltages are of the same brand no matter whether they are induced in an a-c. or d-c. machine, the same sparking voltage may give widely different results under different conditions in either type of machine. The fact that very often the comparative data obtained with the same sparking voltage give rather consistent results for the carbon wear with different types of machinery is simply due to the fact that a good many factors, as for instance, current density, temperatures, commutator speeds, etc., are similar in a great many practical machines regardless as to whether they are a-c., d-c., or whether they are for industrial or traction purposes. Nevertheless it seems to the writer that the importance of these various factors upon the commutating problem should not be overlooked and that a detailed knowledge of the various factors as affecting brush wear is of utmost importance. If it is considered how important the brush and commutator wear is in connection with all kinds of commutating machinery it seems surprising how little investigation has been made along this line. While there are quite a number of tests available giving brush friction and contact resistance, practically nothing is known as to how sparking voltages, current densities, peripheral speeds, etc., affect the brush and commutator wear. It might, therefore, be in place to give here a few tests along this line with which the writer happens to be familiar."
"General Problem IN undertaking an investigation in some of the more elusive refinements of dynamo-electric machinery design it became necessary to measure and analyze such a multitude of curves of flux distribution, that the labor and time required by existing methods practically prohibited the investigation. After some experimentation the method described was developed, which has the advantages of speed, accuracy and minimum effort in producing results."
"THE break-down of an insulator usually sets in at the spot where the density of the electrostatic flux due to the conductor it is intended to insulate, is a maximum; for, as is well-known, this density is a measure of the volts per centimeter acting at that point upon the insulating medium. Observation of the discharges from an electrostatic machine shows that the atmosphere around a highly charged conductor breaks down most readily at points and sharp corners, while both theory and experiment show the advantage, if corona is to be avoided, of using, for a high-voltage transmission line, conductors of large diameter."
"IN any alternating-current circuit supplying power to an electric arc furnace, the reactance of the circuit is depended upon to stabilize the arc, and to limit the maximum current which will flow through the circuit in case the arc becomes short-circuited, due to the electrodes coming into direct contact with each other or with the furnace charge. The resistance of the buses, electrodes and charge will help to limit the maximum current, but its effect is small in comparison with that of the reactance."
"ALL electric furnaces with the exception of a certain special type of resistance furnace, the induction furnace, require electrodes for conducting current to the active zone. These electrodes are either fixed or movable and, with very few exceptions, are made of carbon or graphite."
"The Thirty-Sixth Annual Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held at “The Greenbrier,” White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia, June 29 to July 2, 1920."
"The Ninth Annual Pacific Coast Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held in Portland, Oregon, July 21–24, 1920, under the auspices of the Portland Section. Headquarters at the Multnomah Hotel."
"The annual meeting of the A. I. E. E. was held at Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Friday evening, May 21, 1920, President Calvert Townley presiding."
"The presentation of the John Fritz Medal to Orville Wright took place at a meeting in the Auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, May 7th, 1920. Mr. Charles F. Rand presided and, after calling the meeting to order, announced the award of the John Fritz medal to Mr. Orville Wright for his achievement in the development of the airplane. Mr. Rand explained the origin and establishment of the medal in 1902 in honor of John Fritz of Bethlehem, Pa., and read the list of distinguished men to whom this medal had been previously awarded."
"On Sunday afternoon, April 25, at 3:30 p. m., a meeting was held in memory of the life and work of Andrew Carnegie at the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth Street, New York. The meeting was under the auspices of the Author's Club, the New York Public Library, the Oratorio Society, Saint Andrew's Society and the United Engineering Society. The meeting was opened by an invocation by the Rev. William Pierson Merrill."
"Meetings of the Advisory Technical Committees of the International Electrotechnical Commission were held in Brussels March 27th to April 1st. The meetings were attended by delegates from eight national committees — Belgium, France, Great Britain, Holland, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, and the United States. There were about 40 delegates in all."
"A call has been issued to the Engineering organizations of the United States for a conference on June 3rd and 4th, in Washington, D. C., for the consideration of the recommendations of the Joint Conference Committee of the Development Committees of the Founder Societies, relating to the formation of an affiliation of national and local engineering societies."
"The Sixth National Exposition of Chemical Industries will be held in Grand Central Palace, New York, during the week September 20th to 25th inclusive. This will be the largest distinctly industrial exposition ever held, surpassing its own predecessors by one-third. It is to be divided into three special sections, one, the Electric Furnace Section, another the Fuel Economy Section, and the third a Materials Handling Section. The first will as its name implies be one of electric furnace exhibits; the fuel economy section will consist of exhibits of machinery and apparatus, furnaces, producers, stokers and all devices for the economic utilization or more efficient combustion of fuel. The possible exhaustion of our fuel reserves in the not far distant future and the present high cost of fuel makes this section one of much interest to all industrial plants. The Materials Handling Section will be a series of exhibits of machinery and equipment for the handling of material such as: conveying, transporting, elevating, included in this will be weighing, measuring and power transmission equipment. So important have these mechanical features become for all industrial plants due to the shortage and high-wage for man-power that an unusual interest is expected in this new Section."
"Mr. Arthur W. Berresford has been elected President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the year beginning August 1, 1920, as announced in the report of the annual meeting published elsewhere in this issue."
"Organized by several national engineering societies, including the Institute, to represent their membership in matters of common interest, especially relationships of engineers to the public and to governments. Council is one result of a wide movement to enlarge the activities of engineers for patriotic, social and personal welfare."
"The Lenroot Amendment to strike out the section of the Army Reorganization Bill which provides a separate construction service was defeated in the Senate by a vote of 18 to 38. When the House was considering the Army Reorganization Bill it had first voted to maintain the Construction Division as a separate service and later reversed its vote by the very small margin of 168 to 158. This is the most vital thing in the Army Reorganization Bill from the civilian engineer's standpoint; and it is distinctly a compliment to the manner in which civilian engineers handled the construction service during the last emergency."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal authorities, is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear, on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Ludwig Hommel will continue to be in charge of the Pittsburgh office of the Wagner Electric Manufacturing Company, which has been moved to 530–534 Fernando Street."
"John Bogart, civil engineer, died of pneumonia on April 26, 1920, at his home, 640 Madison Ave., New York, after an illness of eleven days. Mr. Bogart, a descendent of a Dutch family which settled in Albany in 1639, was associated during his early career with the development of Central Park. During the Civil War he worked on the fortification of Fort Monroe and other points. Subsequently he became chief engineer of the Park Department of New York, New York State engineer, constructing engineer of the Washington Bridge, New York, and chief engineer of the Rapid Transit Commission. Mr. Bogart was one of the foster fathers of the Institute, as it was during his term as secretary of the A. S. C. E. back in the pioneer days of Institute history, 1885 to 1887, that the Institute was granted permission to use the rooms of the A. S. C. E. on Twenty-third Street as a meeting place and home."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Unless otherwise indicated, the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member, objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before June 30, 1920."
"IN working toward the efficient and economical design of the central station system as a whole no link in the chain connecting the consumer with the coal pile may be overlooked. The ultimate purpose of all study in this direction is to enable energy to be delivered to the customer at the least possible cost per unit, while at the same time good service is maintained. To this purpose considerable attention has been paid to generating plant, transmission lines and substations, but on the final link before reaching the customer — the distribution lines — the tendency has been to apply “rule of thumb” methods and “experience” only to the layouts. When it is considered that even in a well designed system the investment in distribution lines will often be from one-fifth to one-fourth of the total investment on the system and that the energy losses on these lines will be equal to or somewhat more than one-half of the total loss between the generator and the customer, it may be expected that a study of the economical design of distribution lines will be found of great profit. Such has been found to be the case, and the results of the study of secondary distribution described in this paper have been already applied to good advantage in the layout of such lines."
"SINCE Hopkinson in 1892 first suggested the idea that the distribution of a customer's load throughout the day should have some bearing upon the amount which that customer should pay to the Central Station for his power, the subject of demand and load-factor measurement in its various aspects has been many times discussed. In the determinination of watts, amperes or any similar electrical quantity we have definite units upon which to base our measurements, and there is little room for controversy. But, when the quantity “demand”, being a more or less mathematical concept, embodying the combination of electrical units with time in a rather indefinite way, comes under consideration, very divergent views as to its nature, measurement and true significance may be and have been expressed."
"The use of the three-element vacuum tube for supplying alternating current to a conductivity bridge is described and illustrated. Its advantages are set forth and the procedure which was followed in the construction of such a generator described."
"This article gives the description and theory of a new electrical precipitation treater, with results of experimental work in laboratories. The paper contains: 1. General Description of the New Precipitation Treater; with Glass-Covered Electrodes. 2. Experiments at the Electrotechnical Laboratory, Tokyo, Japan. 3. Experiments at the Copper Refining Factory at Nikko. 4. Field of Practical Application of the New Precipitation Treaters. 5. Theory of the New Treater. A. Potential Gradient in the Treater, Statically Solved. B. Observed Potential Gradient in the Treater. C. Passage of Current through the Glass. a. Variation of Resistivity of Glass with Temperature. b. Variation of Resistivity of Glass with Potential Gradient. c. Free Charges on the Glass Surface. d. Numerical Calculation on the Treater used in Oscillographic Study. e. Conclusions."
"THIS paper describes a new mechanical integrator which it is hoped will fill a need, particularly among electrical engineers, for a simple inexpensive device of this nature."
"An analysis of the core losses in induction motors is the object of the research described in this paper. The authors subdivide the core losses into six elements and point out that only one of the six is ordinarily calculated by designing engineers, with resulting large discrepancies between expectation and fact. The belief is expressed that to calculate other elements approximately is entirely feasible and that such calculations would explain most of the variations in core loss now attributed to imperfections in manufacture. Rational formulas are developed for the losses in the core back of the teeth, which are found to give larger values than the more approximate formulas now in use, and the conclusions are presented in the form of charts giving the correction factors to apply to the usual formulas for all ordinary conditions. A Webb floating dynamometer, which was constructed for the measurement of the extremely small torques due to these core losses, is described: and results on the losses in a smooth-core rotor obtained with it are presented. These results and those obtained by an independent electrical method of testing are compared with the expected values based on the theoretical conclusions previously derived, reasonable agreement being found."
"The first Fall meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Philadelphia, Friday, October 8th. The headquarters of the Institute during the meeting will be at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Broad & Walnut Streets."
"Striking figures showing the development of South and Central American Republics are made public as a result of a survey by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. These statistics, which were prepared with the cooperation of the various governments, cover the telephone and telegraph systems of all the countries south of the Rio Grande. Some of the conclusions reached from the survey are that in the Southern countries the telephone is far from being the universal means of communication that it is in this country and that the main development there is in the big cities, the other areas being very poorly served. The telephone network is about a hundred times as dense in this country, as a whole as it is there. In point of the number of telephones per hundred of population, the service here is over thirty times as good."
"Organized by several national engineering societies, including the Institute, to represent their membership in matters of common interest, especially relationships of engineers to the public and to governments. Council is one result of a wide movement to enlarge the activities of engineers for patriotic, social and personal welfare."
"The Organizing Conference consisting of 140 delegates from 71 national, local, state and regional engineering and allied technical organizations and affiliations, representing an aggregate membership of over 110,000 or more than 80 per cent of that of all the organizations invited to participate, unanimously adopted the following resolutions, at Washington, June 3–4, 1920."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street,"
"A. G. Janes has changed from the Standard Steel Castings Co., Cleveland, Ohio, to become Superintendent of Maintenance with the Interstate Foundry Co., Clearing, Illinois."
"Dr. Samuel Sheldon, Past President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and Professor of Physics and Electrical Engineering for 31 years at The Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, died on Saturday evening, September 4th of Brights' disease at the Addison House, Middlebury, Vt. With him at the time of his death were his only son, Samuel Sheldon, Jr., of Brooklyn and his only surviving sister, Mrs. Susan B. Miner of Middlebury. The services and burial took place in Middlebury, where his wife, who was Frances Warner Putnam of Brooklyn, died in 1914."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Symbols have been in vogue since the early ages and are particularly useful to the electrical engineer. Those now in use are the result of growth and evolution and there is no uniformity or agreement. It is desirable to standardize them as far as possible in order to afford simplicity and general usefulness, but it is suggested that the Institute undertake for the present to standardize only those symbols which would be most general and widely used. The general principles which should govern selection are discussed, and there is given a list of suggested symbols covering some of the most important items. These are offered for criticism and suggestions in order to assist toward definite standardization."
"The paper discusses the requirements imposed by proving ground practise upon a chronograph which is intended for general ammunition testing. Instruments of the standard pre-war pattern were entirely inadequate in number for testing the immense quantities of ammunition contracted for by the Government during the war. The development work undertaken to cope with the whole problem of velocity testing was first directed towards devising methods for speeding up measurements with the existing instruments. Conditions made it necessary to lay aside this work and concentrate upon the development of a totally new device for obtaining the results both speedily and accurately. The instrument which was developed, and adopted as a standard ordnance chronograph, is designated “Aberdeen chronograph.” An account of its development is given. It is an assembly of many standard parts, with a few necessary special ones. Rapid production of the instruments was thereby made possible. The Aberdeen chronograph, and the procedure in determining velocities by this means, are described in detail. For the sake of comparison, the Boulengé chronograph is briefly described. Comparative results as to speed and accuracy of measurement are given."
"In the use of the synchronous commutator in series connection as a suppressor, serious errors may arise due to relatively small amounts of capacity in the commutator and galvanometer circuits. The magnitude of these errors is studied for a number of different connections, and methods for eliminating them are pointed out. A number of wave forms are given, indicating the nature of the errors. Used as a shunt suppressor the commutator is far more reliable and this method of connection is always to be preferred. An appendix gives a theoretical analysis of two cases investigated and shows a close agreement with the experimental observations."
"MEASUREMENT runs through the whole structure of engineering. A sufficient degree of maintained accuracy of measurement is essential. Uniform and logical guarantees or statements of accuracy should be used."
"THERE is probably no problem in physics and chemistry at the present time that is of greater interest than that of the structure of the atom. During the past few years especially, a number of the foremost investigators in both physics and chemistry have been speculating upon this problem, and while their views cannot by any means be stated to be in agreement, yet they are of exceeding interest and probably contain in each case an element of the great truth which will probably emerge in the next few years."
"This paper briefly outlines a method for preparing statistical reports relating to power generation in steam power plants, whereby fairly close comparisons can be made of the efficiencies between different plants, without going into a detailed study of the thermal characteristics of the plants, or the intricate subject of power costs. The essential items of steam power plant performance that should be recorded and a uniform method of expressing them, are given in tabular form, followed by an illustration demonstrating the advantage of the proposed method."
"This paper discusses the voltage changes, inherent in d-c. circuits, upon change of load. These variations are independent of i r drops or speed of prime movers. A simple means of mitigating their effect is given."
"OSCILLOGRAPHS, as used in electrical laboratories, are divisible into two classes; namely, first, those that employ mechanical vibratory systems, and second, those that employ no mechanical vibratory systems. In the first class, are the great majority of electrical engineering oscillographs. In the second class are Braun cathode-ray tubes. The paper here presented deals only with the first class, or mechanical vibrators."
"“Daylight saving” is found to reduce the total output of certain central stations and of one gas company by about 3 per cent during the seven summer months. Reduction in output for lighting alone is found to average 8 per cent. Applying these fragmentary data to the country as a whole there is estimated an annual saving by the public of $19,250,000 in expenditure for artificial light and a reduction of about 495,000 tons per annum in consumption of coal. The principal advantages of “Daylight saving” are promotion of outdoor recreation, saving in expenditure for artificial light and saving of fuel. Disadvantages are experienced principally by farmers, dairymen, truck gardeners and miners. Economic losses probably far outweigh the gains. Custom in allocating hours for work, sleep and play has been evolved through experience. It is undesirable to alter it by arbitrary legislation. Since advancement of clocks, while serving the interests of one part of the population, has proved so disadvantageous to another part as to compel return to correct time, it seems obvious that those who benefit by advanced time in summer should adjust their habits as desired without disturbing the practise of the remainder of the population."
"Vibration galvanometers arc very useful in null measurements, but have not been much used in industrial laboratories on account of their being sensitive to external vibrations and requiring delicate adjustments. The present instrument, which has a sensitivity higher than other forms of the moving-iron type, but less than that of the most sensitive forms of the moving-coil type, has the advantages of sturdiness, quick responsiveness, and freedom from the effects of external vibration. It consists essentially of a fine steel wire, mounted on one pole of a permanent magnet, and so arranged that the free end of the wire may vibrate between the poles of an electromagnet through which the current to be detected passes."
"The method proposed makes use of idle operation of the machine as a motor, the voltage being varied, and speed kept constant. After deducting the armature I2 R losses from the watts input, the remaining watts are plotted against the voltage. A formula is derived based upon the assumption that the watts are equal to constant windage and friction loss plus core loss which latter varies as a constant power of the voltage. In applying the method, tangents to the curve are drawn at two points, and from the slopes of these tangents, the voltages and watts at these points, the exponent of the core loss curve, the core loss, and the windage and friction may be calculated with the use of the equations derived. An example is given of the close agreement with the test curve in the case of an induction motor; and other examples are cited of close agreement of the core loss and windage and friction losses with the losses measured by means of the usual belted method. The fact is pointed out that in some machines more accurate results are obtainable by means of the proposed method than with the usual belted method."
"A new principle has been developed whereby an ordinary millivoltmeter may be converted into an instrument in which the usual errors arising from a variable line resistance are entirely eliminated. The instrument measures true e.m.f. in a simple circuit or if connected across a resistance or network through which a current flows it indicates the potential drop which would have existed had the instrument not been connected. In this respect it functions as a potentiometer, yet it does not operate on the potentiometric principle since it does not require a standard cell (or the equivalent) or an auxiliary battery, the only e.m.f. employed in the adjustment being that of the source measured. No loss in precision of setting results; in fact the adjustment may be readily made to 10 times the scale accuracy. Various wiring diagrams are shown and methods are discussed for constructing instruments of zero temperature coefficient and properly damped. A new deflection potentiometer is described which offers (considerable advantage over the ordinary type for small e.m.fs. in a circuit of variable resistance."
"The Eighth Annual Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held February 18–20, 1920, in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"March 12, 1920, Pittsburgh. Meeting under auspices of Traction and Transportation Committee. Subject: Electric Traction. Papers will be presented on “The Design of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Locomotives,” “Short-Circuit Protection for D-C. Substations,” and “Automatic Substations.”"
"Milwaukee. — May 19, 1920. Engineers Society of Milwaukee under auspices of the Electrical Section. Speaker: Professor V. Karapetoff. Subject: “The Coming Science of Acoustical Engineering.”"
"The American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers will hold a meeting in New York February 16th to 19th, 1920, and extends an invitation to the members of the A. I. E. E. to attend any or all of the sessions. The topics to be discussed are as follows:"
"The 357th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in Chicago, January 9th and 10th, 1920, under the auspicies of the Chicago Section. Technical sessions were held in the afternoon at the headquarters of the Western Society of Engineers and in the evening at the City Club. The attendance at the afternoon session was about two hundred and at the evening session about three hundred."
"The above title forms the general subject of a symposium which has been scheduled for the Midwinter Convention session on Thursday morning, February 19th. The specific subjects to be presented and the contributors to the symposium are as follows:"
"The fourth plenary meeting of the I. E. C. was held at the Institution of Civil Engineers, London, October 20–22, 1919. Over 50 delegates representing 19 countries were received by the president, Maurice Leblanc at the opening meeting in the afternoon of October 20. The delegates were welcomed by Sir Richard Glazebrook, C.B., president of the British National Committee, Mr. Roger T. Smith, president of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, and Mr. Everest on behalf of the British Electrical and Allied Manufacturers' Association."
"Organized by several national engineering societies, including the Institute, to represent their membership in matters of common interest, especially relationships of engineers to the public and to governments. Council is one result of a wide movement to enlarge the activities of engineers for patriotic, social and personal welfare."
"As the time for consideration of Departmental estimates for next year's Sundry Civil Appropriation Bill approaches, the National Service Committee of Engineering Council in cooperation with all state-geologists is urging prominent engineers in every Congressional district to bring pressure to bear upon their Congressmen. This has been accomplished by selecting a prominent engineer, — members of the founder societies in each Congressional district, and directly appealing them to request their Senators and Representative to support a $600,000 appropriation for topographic mapping."
"At the meeting of the A. S. C. E. Board of Direction of January 21, Dr. Charles Warren Hunt, who had served as Secretary of the Society for 25 years, and who had asked to be relieved from further active duty, was appointed to the newly created office of Secretary Emeritus, the appointment to take effect upon the election of his successor."
"The Carnegie Corporation of New York has announced its purpose to give $5,000,000 for the use of the National Academy of Sciences and the National Research Council. It is understood that a portion of the money will be used to erect in Washington a home of suitable architectural dignity for the two beneficiary organizations. The remainder will be placed in the hands of the Academy, which enjoys a federal charter, to be used as a permanent endowment for the National Research Council. This impressive gift is a fitting supplement to Mr. Carnegie's great contributions to science and industry."
"The convention of the National Public Works Department Association was held in Washington, D. C. January 13 and 14, 1920, at the Willard. There were 95 delegates present representing societies with a membership of 90,000. The convention was a very optimistic one, and the measure advocated has developed an unexpected strength."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities, is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear in the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 83 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"Electrical Engineer with first class experience in both large and small transformer engineering. Would go into transformer engineering department of large manufacturing company as assistant engineer. Duties will include much special development work. Location Indiana. R-2447."
"David S. Wegg, Jr., formerly inspector of Ordnance, Standard Car Co., Hammond, Ind., has become affiliated with the Chicago office of the Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Co. as sales engineer."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Milling and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"The various factors influencing surface resistance and methods of increasing it, are discussed. It is shown that the most economical way of decreasing the leakage is the addition of properly proportioned corrugations on the under side of the flange or skirt. Typical computations are given, showing the approximate increase to be expected when corrugations are added."
"THE Hog Island Shipyard, near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, constructed as a war measure, and which is known all over the world as one of the largest shipyards in existence, is operated throughout by electrical power purchased from the Philadelphia Electric Company and transmitted over a double-circuit, 66,000-volt stranded copper No. 00 tranmission line. There is also another single-circuit line operating at 13,000 volts. Both are three-phase circuits. At the main substation (shown in an accompanying illustration) there are twelve General Electric transformers with a capacity of 2000 kv-a. each. The frequency throughout the system is 60 cycles per second. The primaries of the transformers are delta-connected, and the secondaries are Y-connected. Their temperatures were 55 deg. cent, when the writer was at the station in March, 1920. They are purely oil-cooled. Monthly tests are made of the oil in the transformers, and if the oil is below the 28,000 point it is filtered by a filter which is located on the interior of the substation. It too, is a standard G. E. type."
"Data are presented giving the iron losses for five-mil, 4 per cent silicon steel sheet for a range of frequencies from 5000 to 50,000 cycles per second. An approximate separation of hysteresis and eddy current losses is made showing the result of skin effect on these losses. A method of test is described which if desired could be used over a much wider range of frequencies than those indicated. The source of high-frequency supply was a new type of arc oscillator. The probable accuracy of the results and the possible sources of error are discussed."
"POWER for the electrical operation of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, between Harlowton, Mont. and Avery, Ida., is delivered to the transmission system of the Railway in the form of 100,000-volt, three-phase, 60-cycle current. The power is supplied under two separate contracts, one for the Rocky Mountain Division, extending from Harlowton to Deer Lodge, and the other for the Missoula Division, extending from Deer Lodge to Avery."
"THE electric dynamometer is now generally recognized as the standard equipment for testing automobile engines. Dynamometers are used not only to measure the power of the engine in the final test but also are employed as tools in the production of the engine. Engines when first assembled are “run in” on block test dynamometers until the bearings, etc., are worked in. In this process the dynamometer runs as a motor delivering power to the engine. When the friction load on the engine has been reduced to the proper value as determined by a meter on the dynamometer control panel, the engine is fired and drives the dynamometer as a generator returning current to an absorption resistance or to the plant system, thus providing a load for the engine. The engine is tested for power one with this artificial load."
"IN some investigations by the authors during the Great War occasion arose to solve the following problems: Problem A. Given the dimensions and permeability of a straight cylindrical iron core, how many ampere-turns, uniformly distributed over the length of the core, are required to produce a given magnetizing force (magnetic field intensity) at a point on the axis of the core at a distance from its center large in comparison with its length?"
"This article gives data whereby the carrying capacity of lead-covered cables can be calculated on the basis of thermal limitations. Carrying capacity as limited by voltage drop or economical considerations is not discussed. The article shows how further data can be applied as these are determined. An appendix contains some numerical examples illustrating the use of the data. It also contains a chart by which it is possible to determine graphically, for given conditions, the carrying capacity of three-conductor paper and varnished cloth cables installed in conduits. There is also included a chart illustrating the relation between the various temperatures and temperature rises of a group of lead-covered cables."
"Recently a great deal has been written and spoken concerning power factor and allied subjects. The A. I. E. E., various commercial engineering societies, the technical press and individual organizations have devoted much attention to these subjects."
"The first regular Fall meeting of the Institute will be held in Philadelphia October 8, 1920. The tentative program, to which some additions will probably be made, includes an afternoon and an evening session, with an informal subscription dinner between the sessions."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the administrative year beginning August 1, 1920, was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Thursday, August 12, 1920 at 3:00 p. m."
"The Sixth National Exposition of Chemical Industries will be held in Grand Central Palace, New York City, Sept. 20 to Sept. 25, inclusive. The program that has been arranged is in keeping with the progress of the industry, which is evidenced by more than 400 different exhibits securing space this year. The program calls for five symposiums, for which the speakers are among the best known in the industrial and chemical engineering worlds. The symposiums will be on Fuel Economy, Industrial Management, Materials Handling, Chemical Engineering, and Ceramics. Motion pictures also will greatly aid in placing the importance of the chemical industry before the public."
"As has already been announced, the date for the next annual convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society, originally set for September 27–30, has been changed to October 4–7. The change was made to avoid conflict with the American Legion Convention to be held in Cleveland the last week in September it being felt that the gathering together, in one city and at the same time, of the two organizations, would cause Cleveland's visitors to suffer inconveniences."
"At a meeting of members of the welding trade in Chicago, held in the rooms of the Western Society of Engineers, on Tuesday Evening, August 3rd, a Chicago Section of the American Welding Society was organized. There were about seventy-five in attendance, representing many railroads terminating in Chicago and also many of the larger local industries."
"The proposed electrification of the industries of the island of Ceylon, and a partial transformation of the transportation systems from steam to electricity, offer a large opportunity in hydroelectric development today. The proposed scheme, developed by the Public Works Department, has been under consideration for a number of years past. Definite action was delayed because of the war, but it is expected now that arrangements will go forward rapidly for the early initiation of the work proposed. Recently at the request of the Ceylon Government Mr. J. W. Meares, the Electrical Advisor to the Government of India, made extensive investigations of the island's hydroelectric resources. Ceylon newspapers printed the gist of his report in various articles, a few extracts from which follow:"
"A new form of weir and a simple, straight-line formula have been devised by Clemens Herschel, Past-President, Am. Soc. C. E., for gaging the flow of water in open channels. This weir and the accompanying formula are results of experiments made by Mr. Herschel with the support of Engineering Foundation, at the laboratory of Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A report of the experiments was presented in the form of a paper to the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and was printed in full in “Mechanical Engineering” for February, 1920, the Journal of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. See also Engineering News-Records, issue of April 8, 1920, pages 710–712. The complete paper has been issued as Number 4 in the “Reprint” series of Engineering Foundation. Copies can be had by members on application to office of Engineering Foundation; non-members may obtain copies at the rate of 35 cents each."
"A committee on Hydraulic Research has been appointed by Engineering Foundation. The committee will endeavor to formulate problems to which it may be possible for Engineering Foundation to devote some of its efforts. It will also endeavor to collect information about existing hydraulic laboratories and other places in which hydraulic experiments can be conducted. Mr. J. Waldo Smith and Mr. Silas H. Woodard have consented to serve as the committee. Members of the Board are requested to assist with suggestions and information."
"The Federal Power Commission which was created to administer the Water Power Act, which was passed and signed by the President in the closing days of the last Congress, has been organized along the following lines: engineering, accounting, statistical, regulatory, licensing, legal and operation. It is apparent that the engineering division will be the most important because it will make general investigation of the electric power industry, power sites, costs and development. This division will have to report the results of these examinations to Congress preparatory to construction by the U. S.; will prepare plans for the development of streams UDOTI which appli cation for licenses are made; will consider construction plans proposed by licenses; will make physical valuation of property in rate-making proceedings, and when existing plants are brought under the Act it will determine the necessary repairs, maintenance charges, develop operating rules, and determine adequate depreciation reserves. All of this work will come under the immediate charge of Mr. O. C. Merrill, who will act as chief engineer."
"The National Research Council has elected the following chairmen of its various divisions for the year beginning July 1, 1920:"
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three mouths, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"Electrical Engineer, 25, graduate 1918. Naval Engineering officer during war. One year hydroelectric power plant appraisal. At present assisting General Superintendent of western power company. Desire change offering future possibilities either in Engineering or Commercial field. E-2296."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"L. B. Ritchie has been appointed general eastern sales manager for the Burke Electric Company, with headquarters at 30 Church Street, New York City, where he has for some time been sales representative for the New York territory."
"Edward Martin Shepard, Jr., electrical engineer, of Detroit, Michigan, died suddenly of pneumonia in that city Mar. 24th, 1920. He was born in Springfield, Missouri, Aug. 27th, 1889. He was graduated from Drury College in 1910, and went directly to Cornell University, where he was graduated in 1913 with the degree of electrical engineer. In the fall of that year he became connected with the Wagner Electrical Company, of St. Louis, and was soon sent to act as the engineer in their branch in Detroit. He resigned from this work to become a partner in the firm of Little & Shepard, Electrical and Mechanical Engineers, in Detroit. Immediately upon the declaration of war, he enlisted and received his commission as First Lieutenant at Fort Sheridan the summer of 1917. From Camp Humphries, Va., he was sent over seas Sept. 19, 1918 in command of B Company of a service battalion of the 544th Engineers, and was commissioned Captain May 1, 1919. In the battle of the Argonne his company was in charge of keeping open lines of transportation. After the armistice, his company did much work in road construction in that region, and later in the neighborhood of Brest. Captain Shepard was honorably discharged from service at Camp Grant, Illinois, Aug. 1, 1919. He returned to Detroit and immediately entered upon a responsible connection with the engineering department of the Detroit-Edison Company, which position he held at the time of his death. He came of good old New England stock, the last of a long line of Mayflower descendants, being 10th in descent from Governor Wm. Bradford, and a most promising career was cut short by his death."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Recounts the career and contributions of Hans Christian Oersted."
"IT is fitting that in Philadelphia we should celebrate the centenary of the great, discoveries in electromagnetism. It was here that Franklin's investigations in electricity were made, culminating in the kite experiment. It was here that he and a few confreres founded the American Philosophical Society which became a national institution for the spread of that spirit of science and philosophy characteristic of Franklin. It was here not many years ago that under its auspices a very notable commemoration of the centenary of Franklin's work was held. Not far from here in Princeton the pioneer work of Henry in electromagnetism, induction of currents, and oscillations was done nearly a century ago. Not far to the south from here the first Morse telegraph line was established in 1844. In Philadelphia, Robert Hare in the early years of last century did his work with voltaic batteries. Here Bell first exhibited his speaking telephone at the Centennial Exhibition of 1876, calling such witnesses as Sir William Thomson (Lord Kelvin) to hear it speak. Not far from here, in the Laboratory of Edison in Menlo Park, the incandescent lamp was born in 1879. Here again in commemoration of Franklin was established the Franklin Institute, the influence of which has been so marked a factor in science and the mechanic arts everywhere. Under its auspices the first investigation of the electrical properties of the dynamo was made in 1877, and the first Electrical Exhibition held in America in 1884, the Paris Exposition of 1881 being the only forerunner. It is a pleasure to note at this time the possibility of great and increasing lustre to its future in the electrical field has come by a large bequest from one whom the present speaker knew well in his old Philadelphia days, Mr. Henry Bartol. I am reminded that the first meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Philadelphia. And now, to speak very briefly of more intimate but infinitely less important matters, may the speaker modestly add that here over fifty-five years ago he built his first electrical machine, voltaic piles, batteries, electromagnets and telegraph, acquiring through them in his early years an insight into the science of electricity as it then existed. It was here that he taught science for ten years in the old Central High School at Broad & Green streets and that during this period in 1875 there was made, incidentally, the first wireless transmission, using induction coil, spark gap, ground and radiating conductor, briefly described in the Franklin Institute Journal of the time, and recently related more in detail by Professor M. B. Snyder of the school. It was here in Philadelphia that the speaker did his first electrical engineering, and definitely chose that professional career which has kept him alive and busy ever since."
"THE names of Oersted and Ampère always recall to my mind the names of several other great men of science who with Oersted and Ampère form a group of intellectual giants. Their pioneer discoveries produced the science of physics and engineering of today. The names of the members of this immortal group are: Copernicus, Kepler, Galileo, Newton, Oersted, Ampère, Faraday and Maxwell. Their discoveries follow each other in evolutionary sequence during an interval of over four centuries, and each one of these discoveries is a link in the chain of evolution of our physical concepts concerning the most fundamental physical phenomena, the phenomena of motion of matter and of electricity. I trust, therefore, that I will be pardoned when on this occasion, the Centennial Celebration of Oersted's and Ampère's discoveries, I indulge in a brief review of the discoveries of the other great scientists who with Oersted and Ampère share in the glory of creating the modern science of dynamics, including electrodynamics."
"IT is eminently fitting that the Pacific Coast members of the Institute, in convention assembled, should pause in their labors on present day problems and consider the significance of this day and year as the hundredth anniversary of the fundamental discoveries of Oersted, Arago, and Ampère. One hundred years ago today, the 21st of July, 1820, Oersted announced his notable discovery of the directive effect of the electric current on the magnetic needle; this year is likewise the centennial of Ampère's brilliant achievement in determining the laws of electrodynamics."
"What I am going to tell you is not new, but it will supply a background for the following papers by stating some of the historical relations in the development of the electric furnace."
"The Greaves-Etchells system suses the delta-Y connection, which is admittedly the best combination for producing evenly loaded phases. The transformers are connected delta on the primary side and Y on the secondary. One of the legs of the transformer is applied directly to the bottom of the furnace by means of copper busbars and a copper plate, which conducts the current through a bottom composed principally of magnesite and dolomite, in such a way that there is a graded resistance, beginning with a low resistance and ending high. The other two legs of the transformer are connected to movable electrodes, which extend down through the roof. Regulation is then maintained by the usual types of furnace regulators. It is readily seen that by this arrangement there is no possibility of either movable electrode ever touching the bath or extending into it, without causing a short circuit. This feature alone is very valuable, and one which is very hard to handle in a large number of other types of furnaces."
"In considering the steps in the advancement of a new process of manufacture the fundamental reason for the introduction of the new process is sometimes lost sight of. A discussion of the electric furnace for the manufacture of high-grade steel immediately raises the question as to why the older steel making processes are now being replaced."
"Industrial heating is divided into three classes — namely"
"The Ajax-Wyatt electric furnace is an induction furnace of the vertical ring type. An induction furnace is in reality merely a transformer with a single-turn secondary."
"THE subject of the electrification of railroads was debated at a joint meeting of the New York sections of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, on October 22nd, in the Engineering Societies Building, New York. The interest taken in this subject was indicated by the size of the audience which filled all of the seats and all of the standing room in the auditorium. Mr. E. B. Katte presided in conjunction with Mr. H. W. Buck and Mr. W. S. Finlay, Jr."
"THIS article records an interesting war development of small machines of very special design carried out by the writer in 1917 for the Signal Corps and for the Bureau of Steam Navigation. The company with which the writer is associated, as its share in war work was almost entirely engaged in the manufacture of motor generators, etc., for wireless service for the Government."
"13. The maximum power which an antenna can abstract from sustained waves and deliver to a detector. To make the delivery of power from sustained waves to the detector associated with a given antenna a maximum, the equivalent resistance of the detector, Rd, should be made equal to the sum of the radiation resistance, Rr, plus the wasteful resistance Rw, of the antenna. Let us assume that the detector is so proportioned, and that the ratio of the resistance is as expressed in equations (1) and (2)."
"The 366th meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held in Akron and Cleveland, Ohio, on January 14th, 1921. According to the tentative plans which are being developed by the Meetings and Papers Committee, members attending the meeting will assemble in Akron, where an inspection of the Goodrich Rubber Plant will take place during the afternoon. Special cars will take the party from Akron to Cleveland in time for dinner in Cleveland, after which there will be a technical session during the evening."
"The Midwinter Convention, according to the original plans of the Meetings and Papers Committee, was to have been held February 23–25, 1921, as announced in the November Journal. It has been found advisable, however, to advance the time of holding the Convention, and at the suggestion of the Board of Directors the Midwinter Convention will be held February 16–18, a week earlier than originally planned."
"A joint meeting of the New York Section of the A. I. E. E., Management and Metropolitan Sections of the A. S. M. E., and the Taylor Society will be held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, December 3rd, at 8 p. m. The general subject of the meeting will be “The Long Day in the Steel Industry,” and three addresses will be given as follows: Introductory Remarks, by Fred J. Miller, President of the A. S. M. E., who will preside; The Three-Shift System in the Steel Industry, by Horace B. Drury, recently with the Industrial Relations Division, U. S. Shipping Board; The Point of View of the Manufacturer, the speaker to be announced later."
"Chicago. — December 17, 1920, Western Society of Engineers. Papers: “Economic Aspects of the Light Weight Safety Car,” by H. A. Johnson, Organizing Engineer, Chicago, N. S. and Milwaukee Railway; “Train Operation on Surface Lines,” by F. B. Way, Vice-President and General Manager, Milwaukee Elec. Railway & Light Company; “Substation Operation,” by Charles H. Jones, Electrical Engineer, Chicago, North Shore & Milwaukee Railway."
"The Institute held its 365th meeting on Friday, November 12, in Chicago, under the auspices, jointly, of the Chicago Section and the Protective Devices Committee, with the Electrical Section of the Western Society of Engineers participating. The program as announced in a previous issue of the Journal was carried out as arranged."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the headquarters of the Western Society of Engineers, Chicago, on Friday, November 12, 1920, at 3.00 p. m."
"As provided in Section 19 of the Institute By-Laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1921, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than twenty-five members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1921. For the convenience of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available. A member is not limited in the number of candidates he may endorse in this manner."
"The New York Section of the American Society of Civil Engineers has extended a special invitation to the membership of the New York Section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers to attend a meeting on December 15th at which the subject of discussion will be “The Port of New York.” The meeting will be held on the fifth floor of the Engineering Societies Building, and will be called to order at 7.45 p.m. The subject will be introduced by Mr. B. F. Cresson, and the following gentlemen have been invited, and are expected to participate in the discussion: Geo. S. Webster, F. W. Cowie, E. P. Goodrich, Murray Hulbert, Frank L. Williams, G. F. Nicholson, Geo. T. Hand, F. L. Stuart, J. J. Mantell, A. W. Robinson, John Meigs, P. A. S. Franklin, Irving T. Bush and F. T. Chambers."
"The following letter has been received by the Secretary inviting members of the Institute to participate in an Engineering Conference, to be held under the auspices of the Institution of Civil Engineers. Members in England at the time designated are urged to accept the invitation and join in the discussion."
"The American Society of Mechanical Engineers will hold its Forty-first Annual Meeting, December 7–10, 1920, in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th Street, New York. One of the features of the meeting will be a keynote session on Transportation, on December 9, at which addresses will be given as follows: Railroads, by Daniel E. Willard, President Baltimore & Ohio Railroad; Railroad Feeders, by Charles A. Morse, Chief Engineer, Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railroad; Waterways, by General Frank T. Hines; Motor-Truck Transportation, by Francis W. Davis, Engineer, Pierce-Arrow Motor Car Company; Terminals, by Col. William Barclay Parsons, Consulting Engineer, New York City; and The New York Terminal Problem, by Gustav Lindenthal, Consulting Engineer, New York City. The program also includes sessions of Professional Sections on Fuels, Railroads, Management, Machine Shop, Textiles and Power, which promise to be of unusual value. Incorporated in the meeting will be a memorial service in honor of Dr. John A. Brashear, Past-President of the Society. Dr. Henry Smith Pritchett, President of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, will deliver the eulogy on Dr. Brashear, on Wednesday evening, December 8."
"The fortieth anniversary of the founding of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers was celebrated at a meeting held November 5, 1920, at the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York. This celebration was one of thirty-two similar meetings held simultaneously in some of the larger cities throughout the country. Messages of congratulations were received from a number of prominent men, including President-Elect Warren G. Harding, Vice-President-Elect Calvin Coolidge, Herbert Hoover, and Charles M. Schwab."
"The seventy-third meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, together with meetings of a large number of the national scientific societies that are associated with it, will be held in Chicago, from December 27, 1920, to January 1, 1921. Dr. L. O. Howard, Chief of the Bureau of Entomology, U. S. Department of Agriculture, who has been permanent secretary of the Association for 22 very successful years — during which time the membership has been increased from 1,729 to about 13,000 — is president-elect and will preside at the Chicago meeting. The address of the retiring president, given at the opening general session of the Association, will be by Dr. Simon Flexner, Director of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research."
"On November 23rd about one hundred and fifty citizens of Georgia, including Governor Hugh M. Dorsey and staff, and President K. G. Matheson of the Georgia School of Technology, visited New York during their tour to many of the principal industrial centers of the country for the purpose of investigating the progress that is being made in industrial research, the ultimate object being the encouragement of research in Georgia."
"Interesting and impressive exercises in memory of Dr. Samuel Sheldon were held in the main auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building on the evening of November 17, and were well attended in spite of inclement weather."
"The organization meeting of the American Engineering Council, in Washington, November 18–20, successfully and enthusiastically brought into effect the recommendations made by the Joint Conference Committee of the Development Committees of the four national Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers in their report to these four societies, under date of September 17, 1919."
"The Federation of Engineering Societies has been created for the sole purpose of public service. This initial meeting surely warrants some discussion of a few of the problems to which this organization, for expression of the engineering mind, can quite well give consideration."
"The National Research Council has established a Research Information Service as a general clearing-house and information bureau for scientific and industrial research. This “Service” on request supplies information concerning research problems, progress, laboratories, equipment, methods, publications, personnel, funds, etc."
"As the Nolan Patent Office Bill (H. R. 11,984) will be brought before the Conference Committee of the House and Senate probably about the middle of December, and as the bill has been so altered by the Senate Committee as to be rendered almost worse than useless as a remedy for the present Patent Office troubles, an appeal is again made to the engineering profession to exert all possible influence towards its passage in original form, In this connection your Board of Directors at their meeting of November 12, 1920 adopted the following resolution:"
"Organized by several national engineering societies, including the Institute, to represent their membership in matters of common interest, especially relationships of engineers to the public and to governments. Council is one result of a wide movement to enlarge the activities of engineers for patriotic, social and personal welfare."
"C. D. Young succeeds Albert Ladd Colby, resigned, as representative of the American Society for Testing Materials on Engineering Council."
"Oscar Hansen, an Associate of the Institute, died on October 31, 1920. Mr. Hansen was born in Kenosha, Wisconsin, May 15, 1872; he received his early education in Kenosha and later finished the course in electrical engineering at the University of Wisconsin. He had been employed at various times by the Western Electric Company, Gibbs Brothers of Milwaukee, Wis., the Chicago Telephone Company, The Sanitary District of Chicago, and at the time of his death was an electrical engineer for the City of Chicago."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Atlanta. — October 29, 1920. Business meeting, followed by presentation of an interesting moving picture of the Georgia Railway and Power Company's hydroelectric development on Tallulah River. After the meeting adjourned refreshments were served by the Entertainment Committee. Attendance 30."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"The following have been adopted as standards by the Society of Motion-Picture Engineers, and are promulgated to encourage uniformity and standard practice throughout the Industry as a whole. Their early universal adoption will save the industry a great deal of present annoyance and monetary loss."
"In papers presented to the Society of Motion-Picture Engineers on the various phases of studio lighting, the great need for flexibility in the lighting facilities has been well covered. For this reason. it is felt to be unnecessary to go into the arguments for flexible operation. The able papers presented by Messrs. Mayer and Allison will be found to cover this subject in a comprehensive manner."
"One of the most successful engineers I have had the pleasure of meeting once said that in building a piece of apparatus, he did not try to design it, but asked what it wanted to be and then made it accordingly. Evidently this was the plan under which the lamp engineers worked when they built the powerful incandescent projection lamps which are now being used so successfully. This must be the case, as if there was any way under the sun which to make a successful lamp for the universally used 110-volt service, they surely would have done it, and not built them for 30 volts."
"Education by the motion picture is daily being recognized as the education that counts and counts greatly. We all of us have the sense that is Known as “eye-mindedness,” more particularly the young. The moving picture is the simplest and easiest way known of imparting knowledge and information in an interesting and entertaining form. By means of the motion picture, every boy and girl, every man and woman. can take a post-graduate course in the greatest university of all-the University of the Word."
"Field illumination for motion-picture projection may be studied by several different methods. Here the experience of the Electrical Testing Laboratories may be of some service and it is the purpose of this paper to present some notes on such tests."
"The problem of suitably coloring the motion picture is now occupying the attention of many serious workers in the industry. Some few years ago the plain Mack and white picture was in itself a sufficient novelty to interest the public and color was of no particular consequence, providing the story was sufficiently interesting. Times are changing, the public is growing more exacting in its requirements and the demand for color is evident from the fact that from 80% to 90% of the film now being produced is tinted."
"The solution of the problem of heating and ventilation in theatres may best be understood by analyzing the requirements involved. Ventilation is of vital importance in all buildings, and especially where a large number of people are assembled; and it has been proven conclusively that mechanical means is the only practical, reliable method. Heating necessarily goes hand in hand with ventilation during several months of the year in most localities."
"Paper designed to cause discussion-Effect of overspeeding on projection mechanism-Over-speeding has a tendency to aggravate the evil of oil on film-Makes picture unsteady-Has bad effect on film sprocket holes-Alters speed of motion of moving objects in screen picture and injures artistic effect-Affects the music rendition-Has one beneficial effect."
"The primary mechanical essential for motion-picture projection is a suitable means for advancing the film, picture by picture, between the intervals that successive pictures remain stationary for the purpose of registering their image upon the screen."
"The adoption of standards in the design of theatres, to safeguard the public from fire and panic, is a subject which is worthy of consideration by a society interested in standardizing the various parts of the industry."
"The desirability of providing sufficient illumination for the convenience and comfort of the audience, if this can be accomplished without perceptible loss of quality in the projected picture, is obvious. It is scarcely necessary to enumerate the many serious objections to the use of very dimly lighted rooms in which motion pictures are being exhibited to large audiences. The difficulty encountered by persons entering from the relatively brightly lighted exterior regions in finding their way to unoccupied seats is considerable, The undue strain thrown upon the accommodation processes of the retina resulting from a sudden transition from a brightly lighted exterior to a dark interior, or vice versa, is very objectionable and to be avoided if possible. More serious than these, however, is the excessive visual fatigue and eye-strain resulting from a prolonged observation of a brightly illuminated area (such as the screen on which the picture is being projected) occupying but a small portion of the field of view and surrounded by very dark areas, this condition being ideal for the production of glare effects due to excessive contrasts. It is evident for the satisfactory exhibition of motion pictures that the general illumination in the theater must be subdued in order that the projected picture shall be of good quality as regards its apparent brightness and contrast, and that in raising the value of the general room illumination there is a limit beyond which it is impossible to go without seriously affecting these characteristics of the picture. However, it has been found by proper distribution of the light that the general room illumination can lie raised to a value sufficient to eliminate all of the objections to a dimly lighted theatre and at the same time produce no perceptible injurious effect upon the quality of the projected picture."
"America's supremacy conies about by reason of her social-economic engines. She has given the world more mechanisms to do what had theretofore been done by hand, than all other countries combined; and because we are great folks to love our neighbors, some of our most brilliant efforts have been to facilitate intercourse, for intercourse means friendliness. So we have given the world instruments to promote sociability, the telegraph, the telephone, the typewriter, the talking machine, the typesetting machine, and now we add the motion-picture machine to hasten our means of knowing each other."
"The method previously described has been improved and applied to the measurement of the total illumination obtained on the screen with different source sizes and different condenser systems compared to the maximum obtainable with the given source brilliancy and given objective diameters. A comparison of the photoelectric measurements with the measurements obtained using an optical photometer for condensers of different absorption and sources of two slightly different brilliancies shows the ratio of the photoelectric cell readings to the photometer readings to be independent of color thru the range considered. Uniformity of screen, illumination is also taken up in a general way by the application of direct observation of the screen to the automatically drawn curves registering total illumination."
"An engineering society such as ours is of use first to its members; next to the industry they represent; third to the public in general, largely in proportion to the amount of data that is collected, analyzed and exchanged through the mediums of convention papers, committee meetings and personal contact. Such data forms the basis of standardization, of practice and equipment, as well as development and progress."
"In considering past activities, present program and the future policy of the Papers Committee, the members of this Committee have many times discussed the advisability of a complete educational program for the projectionist. With the diversified program which has been arranged for this convention, it seemed the proper time to suggest the consideration of such educational activities of the Society."
"A review of the motion-picture industry during the past six months or year shows a number of improvements which have been made and which help to bring the motion-picture industry into greater prominence than before. The object in writing up this review is to summarize briefly some of the notable steps which have been taken by the manufacturers of equipment and the producers of film. It is not within the province of this paper to go into detail regarding any of the matters taken up, 3s these subjects will in most cases be covered by other papers prepared by those who are more familiar with the details than are the various members of the Committee on Progress. It is hoped that the report may be of value in merely pointing out the general lines of improvements. It is to be feared that some fields may not have received the attention which they merit because of the impossibility of securing from those interested in different lines all of the information which would have proven helpful. However, the Committee wishes to thank the various contributors who have supplied the information which has been used as a basis for this paper."
"I have been asked by your Papers Committee to prepare a sketch of the conception, early history and development of the motion picture, but to compile an accurate account sufficiently complete without being too lengthy is not an easy task."
"With the rapid growth of the use of motion pictures in the amusement, educational and scientific fields, there has been a corresponding increase in the amount of film in storage and commercial circulation, and while regulations were adopted with respect to transportation and safeguards including the use of fire-proof booths and licensed operators in its projection in the theatres, comparatively little attention was given to the matter of proper and adequate protection in the ever increasing number of film exchanges, from which distribution is made to the motion picture theatres."
"When it is considered that the enjoyment of the entertainment offered in the motion picture theater depends almost entirely upon the visual organs, it will be recognized that the importance of providing conditions which will result in the least possible visual fatigue to the audience cannot be overestimated. There are many factors which deserve the consideration of the motion picture engineer in order that the maximum of visual comfort may be obtained, among which may be mentioned the proper distribution of the interior illumination, the elimination of excessively bright surfaces in the field of vision, and the proper adjustment of the screen brightness. The fact that the attention of the audience must remain fixed for long periods of time upon the projected picture makes it of utmost importance that the projecting system be so adjusted that the screen brightness is neither so high as to cause visual fatigue due to glare, nor so low as to throw an undue burden upon the retinal accommodation."
"Losses of light in projection lenses may occur for two reasons: First, Geometrical arrangement of power, distances, etc., sizes of lenses."
"One of the greatest developments in Military illumination during the war was the High, Intensity Arc. In order to compete with the new methods of warfare both our Army and Navy found it necessary to demand searchlights of an intensity which had been considered unattainable. The ordinary carbon arc, such as had been used in searchlights for many years, could not be forced by any means to meet this urgent demand for more powerful searchlights. It was only the development of a new source of light which could fill this need. As was the case in many engineering branches of the service, necessity was the mother of invention, and so a new source of light was perfected and introduced into the searchlight field during those remarkable years of the war when a new development would be in common use by the Army or Navy before the public had even heard of its invention."
"In modern studio design, the greatest problem before any studio engineer or architect is undoubtedly that of adequate and proper facilities for lighting the various stages. The arrangement of stages and the locations of lights is generally known to be the most uncertain feature in the operation of a studio. This condition requires the utmost flexibility. In the control of the studio lighting in large projects such as the Famous Players-Lasky and Fox Film Studios, the arrangement of the electrical equipment is a matter of prime consideration."
"So many different elements of design enter into the construction of the portable power plants used for studios that it would be impossible to attempt to bring all of their numeroils advantages before you in a short paper. It is the author's hope that by bringing before you the most important improvements in this branch of Motion Picture Engineering, you would have a better understanding of the problems involved and should any member contemplate the construction of such an equipment he could at least derive some benefit by learning of the experiences of those who pioneered in this particular branch of the Motion Picture Industry."
