"A business meeting of American Engineering Council was held at the hotel Onondaga, Syracuse, N. Y., on the morning and afternoon of February 14, 1921, with Herbert Hoover presiding. The most important action at the meeting was the election of L. W. Wallace as Secretary of The Federated American Engineering Societies. Mr. Wallace has already been serving as Treasurer of the Federation and as Vice-Chairman of its Committee on Industrial Waste. Upon his election as secretary the office of treasurer became vacant, and W. W. Varney of Baltimore was elected temporary treasurer."
"Complete agreement has been reached on Specifications and Tests for Portland Cement, so there is now one specification covering both commercial and governmental use. Only minor changes were necessary in order to eliminate slight but longstanding discrepancies which had existed between the industrial specifications and those of the Government."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except durina July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the Journal are not acknowledged by personal letter, but unless the applicant is otherwise advised his notice will appear in the coming issue. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SER VICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies. Correspondence relating to replies to advertisements returned to the Bureau will be held in the Bureau for one month only. Positions of the Bureau are on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"THE FOLLOWING investigation was made to study the effects of corona in producing voltage and current harmonics in transmission systems. In the early work on corona in 1910 a very complete oscillographic study was made of voltage and current. It was found that the current wave of corona loss very much resembled the excitation current wave of a transformer or iron-core reactor. A typical corona wave is shown in Fig. 1.1 This wave has a very prominent third harmonic."
"The problem which confronted The Philadelphia Electric Company of providing for the control of voltage and power factor of the two 66,000-volt transmission lines connecting its Schuylkill and Chester generating stations is presented in this paper. It is required that the control of voltage and power factor of the transmission lines referred to permit of the transfer of energy in either direction, at suitable power factor, up to the rated kv-a. capacity of the lines, with the generating stations operating at approximately equal bus voltages. The situation is considerably complicated by the necessity for supplying energy to several industrial substations, connected to these lines near the midpoint, which under certain operating conditions are supplied from one of the two lines. Another important factor in the selection of regulating equipment is the severe short-circuit effects possible in a system of which the ultimate capacity of the present three generating stations will be approximately 500,000 kv-a. The comparison made to determine upon the most satisfactory type of regulating equipment and the reasons for the selection of three-phase induction regulators are given. Data on the performance characteristics of the lines, with the induction regulators are included. In the discussion of this problem of voltage and power factor control, certain conclusions of a more or less fundamental character are brought out."
"This paper pictures the progress made during the past few years in the production of electrical porcelain. The information covers: First: The engineering and works organization. Second: The manufacture. Third: Design and test."
"MANY YEARS ago porcelain insulators on transmission lines began to crack in great numbers. In the earlier cases a few disks in many strings had cracked before the transmission engineers had discovered the condition. Indeed, there was at that time no reason to believe that insulators would deteriorate in any way. As a result of these many unobserved failures which simply reduced the factor of safety in each insulator one accidental failure finally introduced surges which punctured many other insulators just on the point of failure. These failures were tens of miles apart. Thereby the whole system was put out of use."
"Owing to the advantages to be realized from the use of the star-star connection in interconnecting high-voltage transmission systems and from the fact that this connection requires the use of an auxiliary winding connected in delta to stabilize the neutral point or to decrease the inductance in the ground connection, a great majority of the transformers designed for interconnecting transmission lines are three-winding transformers. Another type of transformer which would be included in this general class would be that having an auxiliary winding for feeding a synchronous condenser used in controlling the voltage at the receiver end of the line. Many of the alternatives such as the choice between self-cooling or water-cooling, or between single-phase units and three-phase units, differ in no way from the same questions on transformers for ordinary service. However, there are a number of important features peculiar to three-winding transformers for these classes of service that complicate the design and operation to an extent that justifies special consideration of these problems. This paper will call attention to these special problems and indicate the way in which the design and performance of transformers for these classes of service are influenced by them."
"INTERCONNECTIONS have been made between the Boston Edison systems and the systems of the Eastern Massachusetts Electric Company and the New England Power Company, these two companies serving territory adjacent to that served by the Boston Edison Company."
"IN THE MONTH of October, 1919, Mr. J. H. Foote of the Consumers Power Co., and the writer made a series of tests on the 30-cycle 140,000-volt system of that company in western Michigan. A summary of the tests for corona loss has been published.1 There are some interesting features of these tests which were not mentioned in the previous paper, as their explanation was not clear at that time. The questions in regard to these features have now been pretty well cleared up and they will be discussed' briefly in this paper."
"The paper discusses long-distance transmission of electric energy dealing with (1) the economic conditions which justify it, (2) the plant involved, and (8) the service that may be expected. The economic conditions which justify long-distance transmission of electric energy are a cheap source of power with an insufficient local demand to absorb it, and a distant market to which the energy can be delivered cheaper than energy con be supplied at that point from any other source. In dealing with the plant required for long-distance transmission some of the considerations that affect the design are discussed. A graphic method of determining line performance is illustrated by an example and some essential data on other lines are given. Among the important physical considerations entering into transmission line design, right of way, spacing of towers, line insulators, high-tension switches and lightning arresters are discussed. Service is considered from the viewpoints of, what people demand, what perfect service will cost, and the service that may be expected from a large interconnected system consisting of steam plants at the mines, hydro plants wherever available and local steam plants."
"Under this section there is given a description of the apparatus which has been developed for commercial service and of the manner of employing it in actual installations in the Bell Telephone Plant. To date there have been developed and put into commercial use, three distinct types of multiplex carrier systems, as follows:"
"In the joint Thirty-seventh Annual and Tenth Pacific Coast Convention the Institute has provided an unusual opportunity to combine all the pleasures and benefits that are coincident with attendance at the yearly national meetings, with a trip to the center of scenic America. The Convention Committee and the Utah Section have arranged a program of technical sessions, excursions, dinners, lectures, recitals; tennis, golf and baseball; a program every detail of which has been so carefully mapped out, that arrangements to attend can be made with the full assurance that no effort has been spared to make this year's Convention a signal success."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, May 20, 1921."
"The Annual Meeting of the A. I. E. E. was held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Friday evening, May 20, 1921, President Arthur W. Berresford presiding."
"At the close of the business session President Berresford introduced President-Elect William McClellan, who spoke as follows:"
"Dr. William McClellan has been elected President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the year beginning August 1, 1921, as announced in the report of the annual meeting published elsewhere in this issue."
"American Engineering Council has announced that it would start a nationwide campaign for the establishment of a National Department of Public Works."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except durina July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, S3 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but they will usually appear in the next issue that goes to press. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"There has been a rather prevailing opinion that a sudden short circuit of an induction generator would not cause a serious initial rise in current such as occurs in synchronous generators. This has led to the proposal of the use of such machines as a partial solution of the short-circuit problem on a-c. systems. Theoretical considerations and experimental data given in the paper show that, on the contrary, there is in the induction generator, just as in the synchronous machine, a serious initial rush of current which is limited only by the leakage reactance of the machine. The only difference is that the transient is shorter in the induction machine, and the current dies down, of course, to zero instead of to the sustained value which occurs in an excited synchronous generator."
"IN recent years there has been a marked tendency, temporarily interrupted by the war, to operate electric power cable at increasingly higher voltages. For these higher voltage cables, the electric stress, or voltage per unit thickness of insulation is much higher than for the lower voltage cables, because the limiting overall dimensions have necessitated a reduction in the factor of safety, partly compensated for by improvement in the qualities of the insulating materials. When cables of still higher voltages are manufactured, the voltage stresses in the insulation will undoubtedly be proportionally higher again."
"Starting from the experimentally determined fact that the capacity of an air condenser is independent of the frequency of electrical oscillation, it is shown by means of Lord Rayleigh's equations for the mutual reaction between two circuits each having inductance, resistance, and capacity, that for high-frequency conditions when the resistance is negligible compared to the reactance, the capacity reaction between the two circuits can be expressed best in terms of elastances. Definitions are given for self and mutual elastances as well as for self and mutual capacitances and the definitions are tested by our knowledge of spherical condensers. The coefficient of elastic coupling is shown to be the ratio between the mutual elastance and the square root of the product of the two self elastances, the analogy with the coefficient of inductive coupling being exact. The coefficient of capacitive coupling between two circuits each having capacity with a capacity in the branch common to both is shown to be a limiting case of the coefficient of elastic coupling, and thereby a condenser of the ordinary or close form is shown to be an electrostatic transformer with a coupling coefficient of unity. The true relationship between Maxwell's coefficients of capacity and the elastances or capacitances is pointed out in the case of the spherical condenser. The ideas developed are applied to the thermionic tube and thereby the behavior of the ultraudion and the experiments of Van der Pol are readily explained. Attention is called to the alternative view of the behavior of condensers toward alternating currents, viz., instead of being paths of low impedance, they are paths of ready yielding or low stiffness or elastance, as suggested by Heaviside and by Karapetoff."
"A description of a form used for collecting data pertaining to the condition of pin-type high-tension insulators removed from service. An analysis of the data obtained from such a report showing the performance of insulators on various lines from 1914 to 1919 inclusive. Percentage of injured and damaged insulators to total installed, and percentage of nature of damage to total failures."
"HISTORY shows that something was known of rubber to civilization as early as 1525. In 1736 a French expedition of scientists, who were sent to South America for geographical research, sent back samples of rubber, and reported that it was obtained from a certain tree which the natives called hevea. Even at this early date they further reported that the natives were using this material to waterproof various articles of wearing apparel. This material was soon used in England for removing pencil marks, and hence has been termed rubber."
"IN a series of articles which appeared in the Electrical World in 1913, the author dealt, at some length, with phase control in general, with phase compensation in synchronous motors, and with the only method of controlling the power factor in single-phase motors with shunt characteristic which has, to date, become of practical value; but other means of controlling the phase difference in nonsynchronous single-phase motors are known and these will now be considered before dealing with phase control as applied to non-synchronous polyphase motors."
"On Friday, January 14, 1921, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will hold its 366th meeting under the auspices of the Cleveland and Akron Sections and the Industrial and Domestic Power Sub-committee on the Rubber Industry."
"The seventh Midwinter Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held in New York City, February 16–18, in the United Engineering Societies Building."
"A joint meeting of the New York Section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the Management and Metropolitan Sections of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the Taylor Society was held in the Engineering Societies Building, December 3, 1920."
"In his annual report to the President, the Secretary of the Interior has briefly reported the progress that is being made by William S. Murray and his corps of consultants in the status of the work that has been accomplished to date. It is interesting to note that the Secretary is confident that the report will deserve public confidence. This opinion seems to be borne out in industrial and financial opinions already expressed. The report of the Secretary of the Interior follows:"
"A formal celebration of the electrical discoveries of Ampere was held at the works of the Crocker-Wheeler Company on the afternoon of December 4th. A large number of electrical engineers was present and a special train was provided to take the guests from New York City."
"On December 8, the Edison Medal Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers awarded the Edison Medal for the year 1920 to Dr. M. I. Pupin, “for work in mathematical physics and its application to the electrical transmission of intelligence.” Arrangements will be made for the presentation of the medal to Dr. Pupin at a session of the midwinter convention of the Institute in New York on Friday evening, February 18,1921."
"The Engineers Club of Baltimore, whose present quarters are at 6 West Eager Street, have made arrangements for new quarters in the Merchants and Manufacturers Building, effective about the first of the year. The new quarters are commodius and will provide, in addition to a lounge and recreation room, an assembly hall with seating capacity of 500, club office, committee rooms for the Club and its affiliated societies and a very comprehensive technical library, on which the Club proposes to spend at least $1,000. per year."
"As provided in Section 19 of the Institute By-Laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1921, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than twenty five members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1921. As provided in Section 19 of the Institute By-Laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1921, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than twentyfive members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1921. For the convenience of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available. A member is not limited in the number of candidates he may endorse in this manner."
"At the annual meeting of the American Engineering Standards Committee held in New York on December 4th, Mr. A. A. Stevenson, a representative of the American Society for Testing Materials, was reelected Chairman for 1921, and Mr. George C. Stone, a representative of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, was reelected Vice-Chairman. The following were also elected to represent the respective member-bodies on the Executive Committee:"
"A recommended uniform law for registration of architects, engineers, and land surveyors was drafted by the Committee on Licensing Engineers, and submitted with the committee's report on December 18, 1919. Council had authorized the creation of this committee on October 25, 1918, and a thorough study of the subject was made during the fourteen months that ensued before the report was completed. Council gave the report wide publicity (See Journal for February, 1920, p. 188) so that others might benefit by the committee's work, and that Council might obtain criticism and experience to aid in further work."
"The Nolan patent bill which passed both Houses of Congress during the last session following hearings at which Engineering Council's patent committee took a prominent part, will go before the Conference Committee immediately after the holiday recess. The Conference Committee which is headed by Senator Morris, who is also chairman of the Senate Patent Committee, will hold hearings to take further testimony in regard to the bill under its present status."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"THE PITTSBURGH district is the foremost steel-producing and manufacturing centre in this country. Steel plants with their furnaces and mills line the river banks for miles from the center of the city. Associated industries, attracted by an abundance of natural resources, adequate transportation facilities, ample labor supply, and proximity to markets for their products, have rapidly come into the adjacent territory. Growth during the war period, was extensive, and the district as a whole has been busy since hostilities ended. Today, the Pittsburgh district may be fairly called the workshop of the world. By 1912, central station facilities in the Pittsburgh district had become inadequate to meet the requirements of the rapidly growing industrial demand. The Allegheny County Light Company and other companies, owning and operating a number of small properties, were consolidated with the Duquesne Light Company. A steam-generating station previously built on Brunot's Island in the Ohio River below the city was considerably enlarged and the foundation laid for a comprehensive distribution system."
"The standard frequency of 25 cycles for steel mill plants was adopted many years ago, when the conditions were such that this frequency more nearly met the steel mill requirements than was possible with 60 cycles. With the coming of large central power stations, for the general supply of electric service of all kinds, the frequency of 60 cycles has come into more general use. In consequence, in considering the purchase of power from the large supply companies, the steel mills are now confronted with the problem of utilizing 60 cycles to best advantage in plants which were initially designed for 25 cycles. Various possibilities for utilization of 60 cycles in such plants are given, and the advantages and disadvantages of each are discussed briefly. The intent of the paper is to bring forward certain points for free discussion, rather than to attempt to solve the problem, it being recognized that the whole matter is too complex and contains too many varied elements to allow any entirely satisfactory general solution."
"This paper briefly outlines first the history of the development of carrier multiplex telegraphy and telephony. The fundamental principles underlying particularly the newer developments of the art are then discussed. Consideration is likewise given to the propagation characteristics of open wire lines, including those containing intermediate lengths of cable. Commercial types of apparatus and actual installations are then described and a brief statement made as to further applications of the art."
"Another step in the improvement of iron wire for telephone circuits is due to oxyacetylene welding of the joints. This has been successfully done on the No. 8 B. W. G. iron wires of the Hocking Valley, Zanesville & Western, and Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railroads. The resistance of a welded joint is 95 per cent of that of an unspliced wire, whereas the usual soldered joint is 112 per cent of the unspliced wire. Many apparently soldered joints are really not soldered and are about 200 times the resistance of the same length of unspliced wire. The joints are painted with red lead after welding. The work is not excessive in cost and the result is a considerable reduction in resistance and is of a permanent nature. A recent job of welding on the C. C. C. and St. L. Ry., cut the transmission equivalent of the circuit almost in half."
"In submitting this article the writer wishes to disclaim any intention of making a contribution to the theory of a subject so thoroughly studied as the circle diagram of polyphase induction motors. But while the theory of the circle diagram may be considered as a closed chapter, its practical application, as a method of determining the characteristics of motors from test data, has not kept pace with the theory; at least, all constructions known to the writer are either not simple enough for practical use, or are based on assumptions which hold good only within rather vaguely defined limits, in particular, there is no simple and accurate method applicable to small and fractional horse power motors for which the approximate diagram is entirely inadequate. The method given in the article is applicable to all cases, but has been primarily developed and used in connection with small motors, its characteristic feature being that the smaller the motor, the easier the construction of the diagram. It is thought that in view of the enormous development of the small motor industry this feature may be of sufficient interest to justify an addition to the literature of the circle diagram."
"The Thirty-Seventh Annual Convention of the Institute will be held at Salt Lake City, Utah, June 21–24, 1921. For a number of years there has been a constantly increasing demand from the active Institute membership residing in the West that it be given the opportunity to act as host at an Annual Convention. The Board of Directors therefore, gladly acceded to the request adopted at the 1920 Pacific Coast Convention to combine the Annual and Pacific Coast Conventions at Salt Lake City in June, 1921. From the preliminary arrangements outlined by the Utah Section the convention this year should prove particularly interesting and profitable from many viewpoints. Mr. H. T. Plumb has been appointed Chairman of the Convention Committee and announces the appointment of 24 subcommittees to handle the various details."
"The Patents Committee of American Engineering Council urges all engineers to give prompt attention to the following: The bill for the imperatively necessary relief of the Patent Office, after passing the House of Representatives with satisfactory provisions for the Patent Office, failed to pass the Senate at the session just closed with those same provisions, solely because of the presence in it of an unrelated section known as the Federal Trade Commission Section."
"THIS paper will deal primarily with the electric propulsion of large ships, and as illustrative of large ship drives, a description and some discussion will be given of the propelling machinery of the U, S. S. Tennessee. In order, however, to make certain general comparisons helpful to the discussion, it will be necessary to introduce to some extent all feasible types of propelling equipment."
"It is shown that the two equivalent diagrams of a single-phase induction motor, viz., the one deduced from the revolving-field theory and that from the cross-flux theory, can be converted into each other. In other words, the two theories lead to the same performance of a motor with given design constants. It is also shown that many other equivalent diagrams are possible and that one of these contains a variable impedance depending upon the slip in one parallel branch only, the other parts of the circuit being constant."
"Evidence has been gradually forthcoming, from a number of independent investigators, that cast iron pipe is not the indestructible material that it was formerly supposed to be by engineers; and the recognition of the possibilities of self-corrosion by responsible engineers and chemists ought to have considerable bearing upon the numerous controversions respecting damage to water pipes, gas pipes, and lead cables, which is usually charged against stray current electrolysis from electric railways, if there is a railway near enough to receive the blame for the damage."
"Heretofore the distance to which power could be transmitted has been limited. This limitation is now removed by a simple method of loading the line with synchronous condensers, so that the current and voltage may be kept practically in phase. High power factor and hence high efficiency result, and the voltage rises of the system are very much reduced, thus reducing insulation strains. A standard frequency of 60 cycles is advocated for the national system, and 220,000 volts is proposed as standard for extra large-power, long-distance transmission. The system of regulation proposed will result in practically constant voltage at all points of the line at all loads. And power may be taken from or supplied to the line at any point, and the power over sections of the line or over the entire line may be reversed and the constant voltage system maintained. A simple diagram is given, and this shows that for a 60-cycle, 220,000-volt line, the line-charging current supplies about two-thirds of the capacity current required for about 0.8 load or 820 amperes load current, and that for larger loads the synchronous condensers supply leading and for smaller loads lagging current. Thus it is seen that the transmission line has largely inherently the currents required for self-regulation, if we correct initially the power factor of the loads to near unity. Every induction motor added to the power system calls for a certain capacity current for correction of power factor to reduce the losses from motor through to the power station. Every synchronous motor added, instead of an induction motor, helps in the economy all along the line, improves the service and reduces the menace resulting from large lagging currents. Every synchronous motor added becomes an asset to the entire system. Power factor correction should be done largely at load centers, the final correction and regulation being accomplished by the transmission line capacity current and the synchronous condensers. The advantages of such a system are: Simpler and cheaper generators, transformers standardized for one voltage, insulation strains reduced and a safer system results, and with constant voltage the flow of power has the greatest possible flexibility. (So far as known the proposal and method of presenting is new). This will give a system power transmission comparable to railway transportation, with a flexibility not possible in the ordinary system which does not have the constant voltage feature. The problems of the line insulation are discussed, and especial attention is called to the necessity for low air and leakage resistance stresses. The leakage resistance stresses are most important. For best results these should be distributed as uniformly as possible over the insulator surfaces, under the worst conditions. Results of a large number of tests are given. A new diagram is given which results from analysis of experimental data, from which the characteristics of long strings of insulator strings may be calculated, knowing the constants of the units relatively. The wet and dry arc-over may be controlled if desired, as shown by the illustrations, but it is believed best to strive for the elimination of arcs, except for cases of accident. While the present insulators with some form of shielding or grading (and with a system of regulation as given in Part I) will no doubt give more satisfactory results for 220,000 volts than is now obtained on lower voltage lines, it is desirable that further work be done with a view to crystallizing the best method of handling the line insulation. There is here an opportunity for some pioneer work, which will give us all that is desired, resulting in a high factor of safety for the line insulation."
"The writer undertakes to demonstrate that the expression D2 L (D = Rotor diameter, L = Ne iron length) as used in the electrical design does not meet modern requirements. He advocates the replacing of it by D × V, where V stands for the volume of the rotor. The reasons and advantages of the new form are expounded and it is shown how a series of extremely useful relationships follow the new formula."
"THE UTILIZATION of our natural resources for the development of power, its transmission and the employment of that power to relieve man of burdensome toil, has been an outstanding feature in the progress of Western civilization during the past half century."
"THE other papers presented at this meeting deal with the application of electricity on shipboard. Proper terminals are closely allied with shipping and very necessary for its operation, and it is, therefore, the purpose of this paper to show in a general way the necessity of electrifying terminals, presenting to shipping men some knowledge of what can be done with electrical apparatus to simplify their problems, and to present to electrical engineers some idea of such shipping problems as concern terminals."
"Several years ago it appeared that the work of the Protective Devices Committee would be conducted to better advantage if it should assume that the Committee would be largely reappointed from year to year and that it might undertake investigations which could not be completed within any one fiscal year. Since that time it has practically lost all interest in the fiscal year except for the purpose of making its annual report in accordance with the Constitution. The investigations of its sub-committees has continued from year to year and on several occasions the subcommittees have presented their report in the form of a paper before the Institute."
"During the past year, the important part played by electricity in the Iron and Steel Industry has in no wise diminished, although the extent of the growth of electrification has been relatively small as compared with recent years, due to the almost complete cessation of expansion in the industry, beginning in the latter part of 1920."
"The Cable Research sub-committee appointed jointly by your Committee and the Underground Systems Committee of the National Electric Light Association continued its work during the year."
"The Lighting and Illumination Committee considers that along with the other Technical Committees, it can render a special service to the Institute, by securing papers which relate to subjects within the scope of the Committee and which will be of particular interest to the members of the Institute. The three excellent papers on street lighting distribution presented before the Chicago meeting last year illustrate this point. Following out this general thought, the Committee held a meeting early in the year for the purpose of considering what activities could be undertaken during the current year."
"In presenting the Annual Report of the Marine Committee only the outstanding features of the Committee's work will be dealt with, the vast amount of detail work involved should not be lost sight of however as it was only through the untiring efforts of the various sub-committees that such splendid progress was made."
"Progress in physics is, as a rule, gradual and it is generally dfficult to look back over a space of one year and definitely state what will prove to be the most important advances of that period."
"The Latvian Government is in possession of various plans for the installation of hydroelectric stations on the Duna (Dvina) River, which, for the most part, were developed by engineers of the Imperial Russian Government prior to the war. These plans constitute a somewhat complete scheme for utilizing the power of the Duna and also for developing the river, through a system of locks and short lateral canals, to make it navigable well into the interior of Russia proper and eventually, through a system of canals connecting with the Dnieper and other Russian rivers, to form an elaborate system of interior water transportation."
"The combined Annual and Pacific Coast Convention held in Salt Lake City, June 21–24, will go down in Institute history as one of the most successful and enjoyable gatherings of its kind, far exceeding in interest the anticipations of the members and guests in attendance. This was the first time that the A. I. E. E. has staged an annual convention farther west than St. Louis, and the success of this innovation may well lend encouragement to those western members who hope to secure some of the future conventions for the far western states."
"The Constitution of the Institute provides that each Section may be represented at the Annual Convention by “an official delegate” (usually the Chairman of the Section). The by-laws provide that the duties of these delegates shall be “to attend such meetings of the Sections Committee as may be held during the Convention, to exchange views and experiences in connection with Section activities and management, and to make recommendations of an advisory nature upon such matters to the Board of Directors.” Delegates' deliberations at the Annual Convention therefore take the form of Sections Committee meetings."
"The American delegation of engineers which recently visited London and Paris to present the John Fritz Medal to Sir Robert Hadfield and M. Eugene Schneider, as announced in previous issues of the JOURNAL, was received abroad with the highest honors, and the courtesies extended by large numbers of distinguished members of the profession in England and France marked the visit as one of international importance."
"The Pageant of Progress Exposition, to be held in Chicago on the $5,000,000 municipal pier, July 30 to August 14, will be one of the notable expositions of today. Inaugurated to encourage trade and industry, the exposition will represent practically every phase of American industrial and commercial activity. There will be over 33 miles of exhibits, divided into sections, and representing groups of industries. Among the features of the electrical exhibit will be wireless concerts, played nightly at Pittsburgh and received at the end of the pier, being relayed so as to be heard at 200 places at one time. An amusing exhibition will be electrically operated animals, “ranging from dragons to an electrical Fido.”"
"Francis Bayard Crocker, past-president of the Institute, and one of the leading electrical engineers of the world, died on July 9, 1921, at his home in New York City."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engiiwers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, S3 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but they will usually appear in the next issue that goes to press. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"In presenting to you this youngest member of the electron tube family, I am both aided and embarrassed by its family history. I am aided by the fact that you are already acquainted with electrons, so that I need waste no time in explanation or argument regarding their existence. You believe in these little cannon balls which jump out of the hot filament, fly across the vacuum, and plunge into the anode. You have seen them heat the tungsten anode of an X-ray tube to its melting-point in a fraction of a second. Most of you believe that when a current flows through a wire it is these same little electrons, and nothing else, that stream through the wire, like water flowing through a pipe."
"The question of whether electric or geared propulsion should be used depends entirely upon the type and operating conditions of the vessel. The Navy Department after years of comparative study, and having actual operating data on electrically propelled vessels available, has decided to equip all the larger Navy vessels with electric drive. In this type of ship, electric drive has a decided advantage, as economical cruising speed (which is so important for this type) can be obtained, the machinery can be located in the most convenient place farthest removed from disturbances from gun fire or torpedoes, plurality of generating units can be used so that damage to one or more parts will not disable the vessel, and maneuvering can be accomplished more quickly and accurately, etc. Geared turbine drive has an advantage in fast destroyers and light cruisers. In this type of vessel, the power is generally large and the propeller speed very high — factors which make ideal gear conditions. Geared turbines can here be built very much lighter than electric drive and, as the weight of propelling machinery in this type of ressel is of utmost importance, electric drive being heavier cannot be considered. In merchant ships each individual case must be studied, and here the questions of service, economy, reliability, weight and cost must be taken into consideration. For fast passenger liners, electric drive has an advantage. The transmission efficiency can be made practically equal to a conservatively proportioned double-reduction gearing. It has, also, the advantage that the more efficient turbine can be built. If two generating units are used, one unit will propel the vessel at about three-quarters speed with only slight sacrifice of economy. Noise, so objectionable in passenger vessels, is practically eliminated with electric drive. In moderate-power twin-screw ships of about 6000 to 8000 h. p., electric drive has a decided advantage both in economy, weight and price, if one turbo-generating unit is used to drive both propellers. In case this unit, or any of its auxiliaries, should become disabled, a simple arrangement can easily be made by which the ship could be run at low speed from the auxiliary generating unit which normally drives the electrically driven auxiliaries. On the other hand, if two generating units are used, the equipment becomes slightly less efficient, the weight and cost also go up considerably, and the comparison then becomes similar to a 3000-h. p. single-screw freighter. Low-speed single-screw freighters, 2500–3000 h. p.: Here the geared turbine is somewhat lighter. The actual transmission efficiency of the gears is also better. However, when the losses of the reversing turbine, power taken by the oiling system, packing losses, as well as leakage of steam due to larger clearances, are taken into consideration, the transmission efficiency is practically equal to — if anything in favor of electric drive. If, however, the motor is located aft, doing away with long shafting with its expensive bearings, supports and shaft alleys, the electric drive is the lightest, cheapest and most economical, as well as the most reliable method to use. With the main auxiliaries driven electrically, the ship can by very simple arrangement be run home by power supplied from these auxiliary units, should the main propelling machinery or its auxiliaries become disabled. In freighters of 1500 h. p. or less, geared turbines are lighter and cheaper. As the power is small, a gear can be designed which is less affected by sudden load variation or disalignment caused by springing of the hull or inaccurate workmanship."
"In the annual report (1921) of the Educational Committee to the Board of Directors reference is made to a circular letter which was sent to a hundred prominent electrical engineers, requesting constructive suggestions for improvement in the training of engineering students in our technical schools and colleges. Three questions or topics were submitted:"
"Since the first installations of electric plants on the steamship Columbia in 1879, consisting of two Edison bipolar dynamos with capacity of sixty 10-candle power lamps each, and the first installation in the Navy on the U. S. S. Trenton in 1883 consisting of one Edison bipolar generator at a rated capacity of 115 60-candle power lamps and belt driven from an Armington and Sims engine; there has been great progress during these forty years in the use of electricity aboard ship. This is particularly true when we consider naval vessels where practically every moving element now receives its motion from an electric motor, but in the adoption of this motive power on vessels of the merchant marine, progress has been exceedingly slow as measured by land standards."
"Most of the large central station companies have certain areas to which 125–250-volt d-c. energy is supplied. In the days gone by, this direct current was generated in a number of stations having d-c. engine-driven generators. These generating stations were tied in by means of feeders with the “mains” which were laid in the streets and connected together to form an extensive network; the entire combination being known universally as an Edison system."
"Data are presented showing the hysteresis and eddy current losses due to minor displaced hysteresis loops superimposed on major loops of various amplitudes. In all cases the amplitude of the minor loops is made proportional to the displacement which approximates the conditions which occur in machines. These data are applied to the case of the induction motor having a sine wave field distribution and a sample case worked out showing that the hysteresis losses in the teeth due to the tooth pulsations may be of the same order of magnitude as the losses due to the fundamental frequency. The eddy current losses in thin sheets due to the high-frequency pulsations are in general negligible but may be quite appreciable in the pole faces where the sheets are thicker. There are of course other losses due to tooth pulsations such as eddy current and circulating losses in the copper, etc., but these are beyond the scope of the present investigation."
"The resistance of metallic conductors is higher for alternating currents than for direct currents, due to the so-called “skin-effect”. With alternating currents, the distribution is not uniform throughout the cross-section, there being a tendency for the current to concentrate towards the outside of the conductor, thus causing an increase of resistance and consequent increase of power loss."
"The following resolutions relating to Institute meetings were adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors held May 20, 1921, upon recommendation of the Committee on Coordination of Institute Activities:"
"The 372d meeting of the Institute will be held in the Engineering Societies Building on Thursday, November 17, 1921. The meeting will consist of an afternoon and an evening session."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the administrative year beginning August 1, 1921, was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, August 16."
"The Executive Board of American Engineering Council of the Federated American Engineering Societies will meet in Washington, D. C, on September 30. The most important business of the meeting will be the election of a president to succeed Herbert Hoover, who resigned after becoming Secretary of Commerce. Nominations to fill this office were ordered at the last Board meeting, so that they could be reported at the September meeting. Other matters bearing on the management of Council, its membership, and the work of its committees will be taken care of at this meeting. The Board will give special attention to the plans for the Engineering Assembly (see below), the extension of employment service, and the question of licensing and registration of engineers."
"Earl Edwin Sayre of Schenectady, N. Y., was accidentally killed with his wife in a motorcycle accident at Oneonta, N. Y., on July 8, 1921. Mr. Sayre, who recently joined the Institute, was born at Durand, Mich., in 1895. He received his technical education at the Michigan Agricultural College, from which he was graduated in 1918. In May 1919 he entered the employ of the testing department of the General Electric Company at Schenectady, remaining there until his death. During the World War he had been in active service overseas as Lieutenant in the Wireless Division of the Signal Corps."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the Journal should be addressed to Employment Service, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies. Notices for the Journal are not acknowledged by personal letter, but they will usually appear in the next issue that goes to press. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to Employment Service, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"THE amount of energy dissipated by eddy currents in copper conductors is a matter of interest in many branches of the electrical industry. Eddy current losses in stranded copper cables constitute a source of heat. If the alternating flux density is high at usual operating frequencies, the eddy current losses may seriously restrict the conductor rating based on permissible temperature rise. This paper has been prepared, therefore, to describe a method which will provide accurate measurements of eddy current losses on a comparative basis. The method of test is not advanced as being original with the author, but represents the accumulated experience of the Test Department of The New York Edison Company with several series of tests of this character."
"The writer reviews the effect of temperature on insulating materials, abstracting from the 1913 Steinmetz and Lamme report, and the 1905 British Engineering Standards Committee tests. Then he gives surveys of low-tension cables in large distributing systems, and special tests on cables including sheath cracking, high temperature tests, effect of bending on cables heated at high temperatures, distillation of cable compounds, ambient temperatures in subway ducts as affected by thermal conductivity of concrete, amount of moisture in soil, different arrangements of ducts and load factors at which the cables are operated. From this review, conclusions are derived that the permissible operating temperatures are to be a function of the load factors at which the cables operate. The writer recommends 105 deg. cent., 95 deg. cent. and 90 deg. cent. for load factors of 33 per cent, 50 per cent, and over 66 per cent, respectively."
"IN MANY scientific and engineering measurements the quantity, time, is an important factor. Its value may be required within widely varying limits of accuracy. A high degree of precision can of course be obtained with our present-day astronomical clocks in proper environment and their usefulness greatly extended by electrically relayed circuits. This method, however, is cumbersome, leaves much to be desired and is not generally applicable to laboratory measurements, not to mention the wide variety of field work. The result is, the more convenient stop watch is frequently the criterion used in judging intervals of from a few seconds to periods between appointments with the dentist."
"THE tests outlined below were made to determine at what temperature marked deterioration in the paper of impregnated paper cable took place. There are many shots well off the target in these results, although the average were determined from something over six hundred readings. Anyone who is familiar with the manufacture of paper and with the handling of it, knows the wide variation which occurs in different parts of the same sheet. The maximum tensile strength in a series of tests is frequently twice the minimum."
"IT happens very often that it is desirable or necessary to transmit a quantitative indication to a more or less remote point. For instance, in a modern power system with its various sources of power, the load despatcher may wish to know the amount of power generated in a station perhaps several miles away, so that he may be able to better distribute his load. In addition, it may be desirable to regulate automatically the distribution of power as well as limit the amount that is received from a distant point. In this connection the problem may not be simply that of limiting the indicated power but of measuring and limiting the integrated demand over a definite time period. Of a different nature is the problem of recording at widely distributed points various operations in an industrial plant so that the results can be compared on the basis of the exact time of occurrence."
"The use of electricity for industrial and domestic power purposes on a commercial scale began after the middle of the nineteenth century. In both of these fields it was first used for illumination, and several years passed before any other use was made of it. The development which followed the introduction of the electric light was such that it seems best to treat the two fields separately."
"The article describes a series of tests on oil circuit breakers and disconnecting switches to determine their strength at brush contacts and supports in withstanding the mechanical stresses engendered by the magnetic flux due to the flow of large currents of the order of 100,000 amperes, as may exist at times of short circuits on large systems. Other tests were made on current transformers and potential transformer fuses. For the first time, a synchronized motion picture machine and an oscillograph, were coupled to reproduce the coincident actions of the apparatus tested, and the variations of voltage and current in the circuit. The tests proved that practically all the circuit breakers then on the market had the brush contact placed in the wrong position, creating arcing before the operating mechanism had sufficient time to perform its function. The tests emphasized the importance of strong locks for disconnecting switches. Only single-turn primary-type current transformers and potential transformer fuses with resistance in series, were found adequate to give the service requirements."
"The Standards of the Institute state that for low-voltage cables the maximum safe operating temperature is 85 deg. cent. Experiments show that continuous operation at 100 deg. cent. for less than a month, seriously impairs the mechanical condition of impregnated paper. A standard of permissible mechanical condition should, therefore, be established, if such high temperatures are to be allowed. Operation at higher temperatures than allowed by the present Standards is, however, in the nature of a gamble and it is questionable whether the Standards should take cognizance of it."
"IMPROVEMENT in an art requires perfection of detail. Investigation of the details is often delayed, even though the procedure may be well understood, by the large amount of labor involved in handling cumbersome formulas or mathematical processes. The fundamentals of alternating-current theory are based upon a pure sine wave. More careful analysis considers waves formed of many multiple frequencies, which are found to exist in most practical applications. Thus not only the fundamental sine, but its higher harmonics, must be dealt with. The process of splitting up any known wave into its various components is well understood, but is slow and laborious if more than one or two harmonics are required. In present methods of analysis, it is at once striking how many combinations must be made to obtain the result. In mathematical methods this involves the calculation of a host of sums and products, elementary in form, but laborious in procedure. Methods of selected ordinates require many readings of ordinates from the curve, different sets being required for each harmonic. Graphical methods require a large amount of constructional detail. Machines involve changes of gears or pulleys, and many tracings of the curve."
"PRESENT day practise in the operation of low-tension cables (7500 volts or less) is mainly based upon the temperature limitations generally specified by cable manufacturers and others, who from extensive experiments and research have determined the temperature at which the physical structure of impregnated paper as used for cable insulation, suffers marked deterioration in both its mechanical and electrical properties."
"THE hysteresis effects discussed in this paper occur when magnetic fields are produced in iron by electrical circuits carrying simultaneously currents of different frequencies. Investigations have shown that when two currents of different frequencies are so superposed, the losses in the iron corresponding to each frequency may differ greatly from those obtained when each frequency is acting alone in the circuit. These effects are, therefore, particularly important in the electrical communication field because of the practise of transmitting over one circuit currents of different frequencies. Predictions of the behavior of iron-cored inductance coils and transformers in such a circuit may be erroneous if based on measurements of the iron losses which have been made in the usual way with single-frequency test currents."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. SERVICES AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after an interval of three months, during this period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to the ENGINEERING SOCIETIES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"When we discuss the Merchant Marine, or any feature thereof, we must not lose sight of the fact that we are dealing with a commercial undertaking which is probably more highly competitive than any other. From its very nature this must be the case, for while each country can make laws to assist the merchant ship owners of that country, every effort to help them and penalize foreign shipping can and undoubtedly will be neutralized by laws of the countries with which they are trading. The only assistance, therefore, that can be given by legislation, outside of providing good port facilities, is to enact laws that will assure a good standard for ships and at the same time not impose penalties in operation to which owners of other countries are not subject."
"It was evidently the intention of your Committee that this paper should deal principally with a comparison of costs for different methods of gathering. One case, cited from records of the Consolidation Coal Company, will show that such comparisons are hardly practical. During 1916 coal was gathered for 5 cents per car. During 1920 coal was gathered with the same locomotive, from the same mines, and under mining conditions more favorable to the locomotives, for 20 cents per car. This increase is accounted for by large labor increase, poor and irregular railroad car supply, and decrease in efficiency of labor."
"The problem of radiation losses from transmission lines on which high-frequency currents are transmitted has become of considerable practical interest in view of the fact that in carrier wave transmission over wires, frequencies are now employed which are comparable with those utilized in radio communication. In discussing this problem I shall confine myself to a brief examination of two particular questions, the answers to which are, I believe, sufficient for engineering purposes, although they by no means constitute a complete solution of the problem."
"A sufficiently general theory of magnetic vibratory apparatus is deduced to cover all practical problems in the operation of the various types of telephone receivers as transformers of electrical into acoustical or acoustical into electrical energy. A set of linear equations is derived relating currents in windings, mounted either on a stationary support (pole piece) or on the moving part (diaphragm or armature), and the motion of the moving part. The effect of eddy currents is included by treating each eddy circulation as a circuit. From the equations derived, it is possible by simple algebraic processes to calculate the effect of eddy currents and diaphragm or armature motion in terms of the constants or impedances of the system. By making certain constants of the equations either infinite or zero the different receiver types are represented including (1) simple receiver without eddy currents, (2) receiver with eddy currents in the pole pieces, (8) receiver with eddy currents in the diaphragm, (4) receiver with eddy currents in both pole pieces and diaphragm, (5) receiver with the driving coil on the diaphragm, and (6) receiver with non-magnetic but conducting diaphragm."
"With the fact that nearly 500 bituminous coal mines in this vicinity are served wholly or in part by central station power service, this discussion of power rates has been prepared principally for the A. I. M. E. members, assuming that the members of the A. I. E. E. section of this joint meeting are more or less familiar with the various forms of rate schedules."
"The field of the circle diagram, aside from the design standpoint, is the determination of the characteristics of a motor without the necessity of actual loading."
"The writer's article published in the May 1920 Journal, page 458, entitled Theory of Speed and Power Factor Control of Large Induction Motors by Neutralized Polyphase Alternating Current Commutator Machines contained the following reference note:"
"The wide extension of amateur and experimental radio installations throughout the country, together with the probable widespread use of radio telephone stations for Broadcast service, has prompted the compilers of the National Electric Code to incorporate in that publication revised rules to meet the changing conditions. The Standardization Committee of the Institute of Radio Engineers, New York, now has in hand the framing of a set of regulations to be recommended for inclusion in the next edition of the Code."
"The 372d meeting of the Institute will be held in the Engineering Societies Building on Thursday, November 17, 1921. The meeting will consist of an afternoon and an evening session."
"A regular meeting of Engineering Foundation was held September 8 at which several research projects were discussed as follows:"
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St. New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty, words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the Journal should be addressed to Employment Service, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies, and not to the A. I. E. E. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but is received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to Employment Service, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filed will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"THIS paper deals primarily with the electric propulsion of ships, except wherein a comparison of some particular feature or characteristic warrants a reference to some other type of drive. In dealing with electric propulsion, it is necessary to consider all classes of ships, and this leads to two broad, general classifications, such as merchant ships and war vessels."
"AS long as there was not available in the labaratory any convenient source of alternating current of a satisfactory steadiness and purity, the technique of measurements had to confine itself to such alternating-current bridge-methods where the balance is independent of frequency, so that accidental changes in frequency do not seriously affect the setting, and a reasonable amount of harmonics does not prevent an accurate adjustment. The steadiness and purity of the output from a properly adjusted triode oscillator, however, makes it possible, in a modern laboratory, to take up and successfully apply many convenient methods of measurement, which although known since many years, have been discarded and forgotten for reasons suggested above. On the other hand it enables us to utilize new methods, where the frequency enters explicitly into the result."
"THE writer recently observed some abnormal voltage conditions on a Y-delta connected transformer bank which suggested the subsequent investigations described in this paper. The transformers were rated at 50 kw., 30 cycles, 12,000/2300 volts, and were Y-connected to a 22,000-volt, 623½-cycle line. This line was fed by a bank of 50,000/13,200 volt, tansformers Y-connected on the low tension side, and with grounded neutral as shown in Fig. 1."
"IT is well-known, that in direct-current machines with heavy linear armature load (number of ampere conductors per cm. of armature circumference) the commutation occurs under especially heavy conditions; the reactance voltage in such machines rises to a great value and therefore each in accuracy of the compensation of reactance voltage by means of interpoles produces a great additional current in the armature coils short-circuited by the brushes, which causes sparking at the commutator."
"CONFRONTED by the particular behavior of the single-phase induction motor, it is but natural that in order to familiarize ourselves with it, we should substitute for the direct, the indirect description, and explain the single-phase motor by means of the better known polyphase performance. This indirect method originated by E. Arnold and F. Eichberg and recently modified by B. G. Lamme, looks upon the single-phase induction motor as a special case of the polyphase motor and considers it as a revolving field machine."
"THE general problem of finding the steady-state electrical conditions at some point of a transmission line when they are known at some other point has been a fascinating one for writers, and many schemes, most of them giving approximate solutions, have been proposed for lessening the labor of solving such problems. Dr. A. E. Kennelly has shown that the exact solution of such problems is most simply given by the use of hyperbolic functions and he has been a pioneer in the application of these functions to transmission line problems. About five years ago the writer devised a method, based on hyperbolic functions, for obtaining the exact solution, by applying them in such a manner that the use of tables is unnecessary, provided a special diagram, called a tangent chart, is available. The chart is entirely general in its application, not depending on any particular frequency or length of line. It was described in an article in French, prepared by Messrs. Marius Latour and Geo. Viard from notes furnished them by Dr. C. O. Mailloux, which was published in La Revue Générale de l'Electricité, July 20, 1918. The very favorable consideration which the method received in Europe, and the demand for the publication of a description of the method in the English language, led the writer to take up its study anew, recently, with the idea of improving it, and extending its applicability and practical usefulness. The result is the present paper, which contains an entirely new presentation of the method, in its latest and most complete form."
"The 372nd meeting of the Institute will be held on Thursday, November 17, 1921, in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y."
"The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, October 14, 1921, at 3:00 p.m."
"The Joint Rubber Insulation Committee, whose well-known specification for 30 per cent Hevea rubber insulation is now almost universally used in the purchase of high grade rubber insulation, has gone out of existence after 10 years of service to the electrical industry."
"The engineers forming the American delegation to England and France this summer were guests of honor at a welcome-home dinner given at the Pennsylvania Hotel, New York City, on the evening of October 10. Over two hundred engineers, representing American engineering societies, were present to extend greetings to the delegates. This delegation consisted of Ambrose Swasey, chairman; Charles F. Rand, secretary; Chas. T. Main, Robert A. Cummings and John R. Freeman, representing the American Society of Civil Engineers; Col. Arthur S. Dwight, Wm. D. Kelly and Mr. Rand representing the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; Dr. Ira Hollis, Jesse M. Smith and Mr. Swasey representing the American Society of Mechanical Engineers; and Dr. F. B. Jewett, Dr. A. E. Kennelly and Major General G. O. Squier representing the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorites is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Mortimer Elwyn Cooley, dean of the College of Engineering and Architecture of the University of Michigan, has been elected president of the American Engineering Council of the Federated American Engineering Societies, it was announced at the meeting of the Executive Board of the Council, held in Washington on September 30, 1921. Dean Cooley assumed office at once."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies, and not to the A. I. E. E. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"This introduces a new endeavor of the society to gather into convenient form a brief synopsis of material published of interest to motion picture engineers. The article reviews for the past five years the publications of societies and trade papers other than those pertaining directly to the motion picture industry."
"The photoplay is becoming an instrument of culture with practically unlimited possibilities. With the growing appreciation of the public, the demand for special effects in the presentation of the photoplay is increasing. Resourceful producers and exhibitors are supplying the demands of a critical public for more genuine art and as a result the silent drama demands for its temple a specially constructed building of architectural magnificence equipped with the best mechanical devices, most perfect ventilation, and an attractive and harmonious system of illumination."
"The ever widening fields to which the motion picture is being adapted has induced manufacturers and inventors to bring forth many new camera designs and to make many improvements in the old standard designs."
"The past few years have seen a remarkable increase in the use of toned and tinted motion picture film and a large proportion of the films made are colored by some process of toning or tinting. It is quite evident that since the production of color involves the absorption of certain components of the white light ordinarily used for projection purposes the screen brightness will in general be less when colored film is used. While the lower screen brightness may be desirable in the production of certain effects, it may be very objectionable in many cases and demand an increase in the current used in the projection lamp in order to produce a picture of satisfactory brightness. A knowledge of the absorption characteristics of the film colored by these various toning and tinting processes is of considerable practical importance, and it seemed desirable to make precise quantitative measurements of the amount of light absorbed by films colored in various ways. This communication is a report of the work done on the subject and consists of a description of the apparatus and method for the measurement of these values with considerable data relating to the absorption of light by samples prepared according to certain definite methods used in the toning and tinting of positive motion picture films."
"A Member: With regard to this chemical tinting, would you advise the under-exposing of prints to get better results, Mr. Jones?"
"With the development of the MAZDA lamp for motion picture projection the limitation formerly imposed in source-condenser spacing due to heating and fouling was obviated. Attempts were at once made to design condenser lenses of shorter focal length and capable of intercepting a larger percentage of the light from the source. A successful solution was the prismatic condenser, a special form of Fresnel lens, which includes a relatively large angle without excessive aberration."
"The prismatic glass-disc-ring described and illustrated in the transactions of the Montreal Meeting of this Society (May, 1920) disclosed, in use, a certain defect which was finally discovered to be inherent in tbe disc form of prism-ring."
"Mr. Ives: Gentlemen, the brief demonstration that I am going to give just now is not on the program. A few words of explanation is in order. I really came down here because my very good friend of a great many years, Mr. Jenkins, wrote to me a short time ago intimating that he thought I belonged in the same class as a lot of good fellows who were going to meet here who were interested in moving picture photography."
"A non-theatrical film library is more than an exchange. It performs all the functions with and gives practically all the information about films that a library gives about books. Not only must it furnish films for entertainment but for instruction, reference and special purposes. The films must be organized into courses to meet these various needs. To do this there must be a competent editorial department to cut, select and catalog. A description of each film must be written, which will completely but briefly and accurately give the information which a customer needs in order to be sure that films meet his purposes. Not only this, but the librarian must be thoroughly in sympathy with the problems of the non-theatrical field."
"About fifteen years ago the navigation of the air was something looked upon with eyes of doubt all over the world. The first flights of the Wrights were hailed with amazement and the newspapers and magazines were filled with accounts of their achievements. At that time it was regarded as a marvelous thing to reach an altitude of a hundred feet and to maintain a biplane in the air for more than a few minutes."
"Mr. Hubbard: It is a real pleasure to hear and meet with a group of men who are doing things so well worth while in so important a field as yours. The fact that I am an outsider in a sense fits me to speak on the motion pictures of tomorrow, for it is really true that hints may arise naturally outside which would not as easily develop from within. When I was invited to speak to you I promised to set aside the technical difficulties to be encountered and take a long look ahead remembering that time is purely relative and our vision of 1950 may come whenever we are ready to make it true. Certainly we must agree with Mr. Jenkins that the motion picture is destined to be, perhaps, the greatest industry of the world."
"Probably no field of illumination thus far invaded by the incandescent lamp presents more difficult or exacting requirements and diversified problems than that of professional motion picture projection."
"Mr. Mott: Gentlemen, I came down here and brought a lot of rubbish with me, so that you could have a little picture of what happens when you put chemicals in the arc."
"THE present paper is the outgrowth of the discussion in connection with the paper on condensers at the last meeting of this society. The method previously described has been applied to measuring the efficacy of small condensers as compared with the standard 4.5 inch, for sources and projection lenses of a variety of sizes. A graph showing the relation between brilliancy of incandescent filaments and lamp life has been added."
"THE earliest lenses-those made by Galileo and men of his time were made of glass, not optical glass in particular, but any glass; -the glass available. In other words, in early times there was no such thing as optical glass as we now understand the term. As time went on and the demand for better lenses and a greater variety of the same increased, greater attention and more careful calculations were brought into play. It became evident, as was demonstrated by Dr. Abbe in the early 80's, that the then existing varieties of glass were not sufficient either in quality or diversified properties to meet the needs. About this time both in France and Germany some real research was begun in the manufacture of optical glass as we now know it. Problems not only in making a greater variety of glasses but in eliminating defects in the kinds already made were pressing for solution. Indeed, some of these problems are only recently being solved. This is particularly true in regard to annealing, for we find that our own glass is much better annealed than that of foreign makers who have been working at the problem for years. We have given considerable attention to the annealing and have adopted some really scientific methods which have brought very satisfactory results."
"THE term “Point Light Source” is frequently made use in the calculation and discussion of optical matters. It should always be kept in mind, however, that such a source is only hypothetical and represents a theoretical limit that is unattainable by any means whatever. In a quite similar manner, textbooks on optics give explanations and even formulae for calculating lenses on the basis of a lens with infinitesimal or zero thickness. These theoretical concepts are, of course, of considerable value in working out an optical system, and their use for such purposes should not be decried. In fact, some such assumptions are almost a necessity for the practical development of applied optics, but the fact remains that they are only hypothetical assumptions which can never be realized, and allowance must always be made for the finite or actual dimensions of the real physical light source. The astronomical telescope may perhaps be an exception, for the fixed stars as seen from the earth are point light sources for all but the most extremely delicate apparatus. In the observation of stars, however, another difficulty is encountered, i. e., the image of the star is not a point but has quite appreciable dimensions due to diffraction."
"YEARS ago, when motion pictures had just emerged from the experimental stage and were wholly novel as a means of entertaining the pleasure-seeking public, anything that moved upon the screen was not only considered worth seeing, but worthy of the exclamatory comment that greeted each new wonder. The thing was amazing, and without ocular proof it would be almost incredible. And the mere wonder of the motion picture was quite sufficient, for a while, to make it attractive, regardless of subject or handling. It was enough to see pictures that moved. Why be critical of details?"
"OWING to certain tests made in steel foundry production early in 1917 and the inability to obtain more than a momentary viewing of such tests through the medium of standard motion pictures, my thoughts turned to the subject as to how a better understanding of problems confronting us could be obtained, which led to some haphazard, spasmodic experiments along the lines of “slowing down” motion picture photography. During the year 1917 I devoted almost constant study to the subject, and manufactured a crude, model of a “Novagraph” camera, in fact, many crude models. I am quite sure were I afforded an opportunity to put a yard-stick on the raw stock used in my experimental work during that single year the gross footage would undoubtedly reach around the world."
"THE Papers Committee has suggested that an illustrated talk on what has been accomplished this summer to further the development of high speed photography would be interesting to the members of our Society. It was this suggestion which resulted in the preparation of this paper."
"A complete treatment of the subject of lighting of motion picture studios requires a consideration of many factors and involves a knowledge of photometry, visual sensitometry, and photographic sensitometry. A large amount of the information necessary for the intelligent use of artificial illumination for photographic purposes is available in the literature, but in many cases this it not commonly known nor is the method of applying this information to practical problems well understood. It seems worth while, therefore, to treat the entire subject in a rather general and complete manner, to outline the fundamental relations between the various factors of the problem, to present some of the available information bearing on various phases of the subject, and to indicate methods of utilizing the available data in practical problems. Such a treatment, it is hoped, will be valuable not only as a summary of our present knowledge of the subject but also as a means of indicating the phases upon which additional experimental work and more complete quantitative data are desirable."
"The present paper consists of the chief notes on two branches of photometry as yet unfinished, for which it would seem there might be a use in motion picture work. These two uses of the photoelectric cell have been carried as far as it seems at present advisable, unless some of those more versed in the practical manipulation of films can share the author's optimism."
"THERE is perhaps no other one thing in the entire mechanics of the industry which has added a heavier burden in overhead expense than has the film reel, that term as here used meaning the reel or spool upon which film is ordinarily carried."
"IN the past six years, thousands of patent applications and patents have passed under my observation. It has been my experience during this time that applications for the new inventions, in nine case out of ten, are prosecuted so poorly that the fundamental principle of the invention is lost sight of in fifty per cent of the cases and has been given to the public, the inventor losing all right to the product of his brain as the result of this."
"THE photographic emulsion is the basis of the moving picture. Two emulsions of course are necessary-the negative and the positive. The negative emulsion must be exceedingly fast, that is to say it must be very sensitive to light; it must be orthochromatic or color-sensitized and be capable of rendering faithfully all the tones of the scene photographed without sacrificing any detail in highlights or shadow, consequently it must have considerable latitude and be an emulsion of comparatively low contrast. The positive emulsion is slow and must be capable of reproducing all that is in the negative, and at the same time must have the possibility of developing to full rich blacks in order to have proper projection value, therefore it is an emulsion of considerably higher contrast than the negative."
"THE remarkable record of engineering progress in the motion picture industry for many years marked little improvement in the light source used for the projection of the completed picture. During that period, the motion picture had passed from an adventure to an industry. Producers had equipped studios to secure unusual photographic and scenic effects. Exhibitors had built the-atres which were unrivalled in magnificence. The only notable change in the arc used for projection was a gradual increase in current to satisfy the longer throws, the added house lighting and the general demand of the public for a brighter picture. Arc amperes increased from 35 to even 150 with no compensating development along the lines of greater efficiency in light utilization or in light production."
