"In the days of the horse-drawn vehicle a simple danger sign sometimes supplemented by a bell furnished adequate warning at dangerous crossings, such as railroad grade crossings, etc."
"THIS bibliography was prepared at the request of the Subcommittee on Wires and Cables of the Standards Committee of the Institute, and is intended specifically to be a continuation of that published by E. H. Rayner, Journal of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, (England) 1912, Volume 49, p. 53, who describes his bibliography as follows:"
"The tentative program of the Vancouver Convention which was published in the July issue of the Journal has been adopted in full and may now be considered the final program. As no changes whatever have been made, it is unnecessary to repeat it in this issue of the Journal."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Clifton, Niagara Falls, Ontario, on Thursday, June 29, 1922."
"A national meeting of the Society of Automotive Engineers will be held in Detroit October 26–27 for the purpose of discussing problems of automotive production. The meeting is to be known as the S. A. E. Automotive Production Meeting."
"Federated American Engineering Societies' Committee on Procedure met in New York City on Friday, July 14. Both the afternoon and evening sessions were fully attended."
"The American engineering standards committee has approved the National Electrical Safety Code of the Bureau of Standards which covers the generation, distribution and utilization of electricity for power light and communication."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Madison. — June 5, 1922, Womans Building. Election of officers as follows: Chairman, H. M. Crothers; Secretary, R. C. Walter. Attendance 15."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"Magnetic blow-outs have been used in contactors, circuit breakers and controllers for many years for rupturing both a-c. and d-c. power circuits, but their commercial use, particularly on alternating current has been largely confined to relatively low voltages. Oil circuit breakers and switches have been generally used for rupturing high-voltage a-c. power circuits, and their development has reached a high state of perfection. The air break has the advantage of avoiding the possibilities which attend the use of any inflammable material — like oil, with its possible gasification and explosion on heavy short circuits. While there are many different types of magnetic blow-outs this paper deals largely with the “individual” type, in which a blow-out coil is connected in series with each pair of current-rupturing contacts, since it is with this type that most of the progress and studies have been made in recent years. Contactors and circuit breakers with the “individual” type of blow-out are now used almost exclusively in the main d-c. power circuits of (he 1500 and 3000-volt d-c. railway systems. Oil circuit breakers have been tried for this service, but they are rather unsatisfactory because there is no periodic zero point in the current wave at which the oil can form an insulating seal between contacts. The oil under d-c. arc conditions carbonizes rapidly and involves the possible danger from explosive gases. Recently the use of magnetic blow-out contactors on a-c. circuits has been extended to moderately high voltage and capacity. Short-circuit tests on a 6600-volt, 26,700-kv-a. alternator are described towards the end of the paper. During these three-phase tests the air-break magnetic blow-out contactors successfully ruptured 17,500 amperes, the full short-circuit current, at 5500 volts. This is 170,000 kv-a., three-phase. The maximum asymmetrical peak current through the contacts during this test was 67,500 amperes, but during a 2500-volt short-circuit test this peak current reached 80,000 amperes. Oscillograph records of the voltage and current in each phase are shown and also illustrations of the arcs. The contactors used were rated at 5000 volts, 3000 amperes, but they successfully ruptured a circuit of 9000 volts, 3500 amperes. The oscillographic records and illustrations of this test are shown in Figs. 25 and 26. Current-rupturing tests at 2300 amperes and 3500 amperes normal voltage are also shown for comparison in Figs. 22 to 24. In all of the tests the circuit was ruptured within the first half cycle after the tips started to part, indicating the effectiveness of this type of blow-out. The arrangement of the current-carrying and magnetic blow-out parts are shown in Fig. 15. The main current is carried through solid copper contacts mounted at the back. The auxiliary contacts in the arc chute and the blow-out coils carry current only during the time the circuit is being ruptured. These coils with their attending arcing horns are cut into the circuit in succession, so as to obtain the strongest possible final magnetic field without undue arcing at the contact tips and across the terminals of the coils when they are introduced into the circuit. Several arc suppressor plates are provided in each half of the arc chute which increases the cooling surface, and on heavy short circuits split the arc into a number of multiple paths. See Fig. 10. A brief description is given in the first part of the paper of a typical form of the “individual” type magnetic blow-out as used in contactors and circuit breakers, and photographs of a number of contactors for various a-c. and d-c. voltages are reproduced. Attention is directed to the tests with accompanying illustrations of successive positions of the arc in the chute taken with a high-speed camera, from which some interesting data were obtained on arc characteristics. The arc was photographed in its movement every three-thousands of a second. The time between pictures in the familiar motion picture camera is sixty-two-thousandths of a second. These tests bring out the effectiveness, in rupturing the circuit of the arc suppressor plates and narrow arc chutes."
"In the early days of the electrical industry, disconnecting switches adequately performed their functions without the use of locking devices, except perhaps in a few isolated cases, where the blades opened downward, and some mechanism was provided to hold the blade in against the action of gravity (when subjected to jars, vibration, etc.). The generating capacity of central stations at this time was relatively small. Hence, the short-circuit currents obtaining were relatively low, and the forces resulting were insufficient to overcome the friction and other resistance offered by the blade and to cause opening. With the increase in generating capacity came a formidable increase in the short-circuit currents, to such an extent that it was not uncommon for a disconnecting switch to open, causing considerable damage, with consequent demoralization of operation. The result was that there were attempts made to attach locks to switches already installed, and to design new switches of which the lock was an integral part. Many of these locks were found to be inadequate, as opening occurred in many instances. In an attempt to prevent the possible recurrence of such unfortunate incidents the tests described in the following paper were planned; it was hoped thereby to improve the class of service rendered the public and safe-guard the lives of our employees. Specifically, it was desired in addition to a general study of the subject, to attempt to improve the locks already in use on our system and to provide locks for the switches located at dangerous points, i. e., points where short-circuit currents are likely to obtain which might open a given switch. One or more of the various types of switches in use on our system were tested, and in addition, a number of types which were considered for replacement of the obsolescent types now in use. As a result of these tests it was possible by a very simple expedient to raise the opening point of one of our switches from about 40,000 peak amperes to 180,000 peak amperes. A very simple lock was added to another switch largely used on the system which opened at about 51,000 peak amperes so that it would withstand the mechanical forces exerted by 143,000 peak amperes. The tests clearly demonstrated that some effective form of lock should be provided. This seems to have been generally recognized, and most manufacturers have attempted to take care of this in some way or other. Switches have been constructed (without locks) in which the current through the switch parts does not tend to open the blade. Such switches are satisfactory when used under almost ideal conditions, but certain unfavorable arrangements of the bus and leads usually found in practise, exert magnetic forces which might open the blade under short-circuit conditions, thus completely nullifying the principle of design. Although locking devices are provided they are not always effective, the various reasons being mechanical weakness of lock, current flow through lock, etc. It was noted from a study of the oscillograms that a switch seldom required more than one cycle to open, one-half cycle usually being required. It was generally recognized that there were outward forces on the blade of a switch due to the passage of high currents; but it was not generally recognized that there were also outward forces on the jaws and insulators tending to spread them apart. These forces must be recognized and dealt with by substantial design as a number of lock failures may be attributed to this. Insulators may fail due to these outward forces, and this can be remedied only by strengthening or properly supporting the insulators."
"Illumination helps to make highway travel easier at night. It helps to reduce traffic congestion, relieves eye-strain and assists in making repairs after dark. It increases night traffic and thereby relieves day congestion. It increases running time and thereby increases road capacity. Illumination of the road-bed at night would be a big factor in reducing traffic accidents. Data presented before the Illuminating Engineering Society in October by E. A. Anderson and O. F. Haas show that nearly 18 per cent of the night traffic accidents in cities can be attributed to inadequate or improper lighting, and obviously, the percentage of traffic accidents on country roads and highways due to poor lighting is much higher."
"In a paper1 presented before the Illuminating Engineering Society in October 1921 at Rochester, the subject of color temperature and its relation to the quality of the emitted light for a number of different light sources was discussed. There it was shown that by the use of the color temperature of a light source a number is given which expresses the quality of the light of those sources to which the method applies."
"It is customary when discussing magnetic leakage in the transformer to consider the primary and secondary windings as having a counter e. m. f. induced by a flux surrounding the coil and having the core for a part of its path. This leakage flux is frequently represented by closed lines. Since the main flux is also represented by closed lines in the core, apparently two fluxes are to be found in the core under a given coil, namely, the leakage flux and the main flux. The main flux is the flux found in the core at a point not under either the primary or secondary winding, and has been commonly considered as being the flux which causes the secondary induced voltage. If the leakage fluxes have a separate existence, i. e., if they are to be represented by closed lines, then the flux along the edges of the core would consist largely of leakage lines while that to be found in the middle portion of the core would be the main flux. Since these fluxes are out of phase with one another it should be possible to identify them if they are present as separate fluxes. Using a simple test core-type transformer, provided with belt exploring coils under both the primary and secondary windings, data concerning the magnitudes and phase positions of the fluxes in different sections of the core were secured. The results show that leakage fluxes do not exist as separate fluxes in the core. It is also shown that the primary and secondary induced voltages are equal to the primary and secondary terminal voltages diminished and increased respectively by the corresponding I R drops."
"The paper deals with the essential elements of the superpower plan and discusses the effect of a cheaper and more adequate power supply upon the industrial activity of the United States. The economies effected by the electric utility systems of the country in the past are brought out, while the need for greater coordination between the electric utilities through some such agency as superpower systems is emphasized. The present power production facilities within the superpower zone form an important element of the proposed superpower system. The plan does not call for the complete scrapping of existing electric utility plants or transmissions, but uses these to a very large extent as the nucleus of the system. The effect of amortizing less efficient steam-electric plants is to materially increase the resulting economy of the balance of existing plants, which, with proposed new water power developments, are used to carry the peak load impressed upon the system, permitting the base load steam-electric plants to operate at very high capacity factors with resulting low production costs. The location of base load steam-electric plants in the bituminous coal-mining region is found to be uneconomical at the present time, but the location of large stations in the anthracite region is found to yield very attractive returns. The use of process fuel is not recommended under present conditions, but provision is made in the station designs for the use of such fuel at a later date should it prove profitable. The Superpower Report sets forth principles rather than a detailed analysis of a particular situation and this report must be followed by detailed studies of different sections of the country, taking into consideration the local conditions which must be provided for."
"On account of diminishing fuel supply the development of our hydroelectric resources is imperative. It is probably the most fruitful field for conservation of natural resources open to the present generation. Under modern conditions there is an increasing demand for a continuous supply of energy in all channels of industry. Development of our hydroelectric resources probably requires more careful analysis than any other engineering problem confronting us. There are three types of hydroelectric developments, (1) plants depending on uniform stream flow, (2) plants on rivers having variable stream flow, and (3) plants on streams “regulated” by storage reservoirs. The Niagara and St. Lawrence belong to the first class and are suitable for development of base load plants. The Susquehanna belongs to the second class and should be developed for “run of river” power. The third class includes the Connecticut, Hudson, Delaware and Potomac which should be developed with storage for carrying peak loads. The principal transmission lines in the superpower zone should operate at 220 kv. Where the lines are long, intermediate stations with “phase modifying” equipment may be desirable. The distribution lines should operate at 110 kv. Successful operation depends on ability to localize trouble as it is now done on large utility systems. Adequate protective devices and selective schemes for disconnecting defective circuits are essential and these are available. Voltage regulation is effected by excitation of synchronous apparatus in consumer's plants supplemented by synchronous equipment at load centers. The benefits from an interconnected system are, (1) it permits base load plants to be operated at high capacity factor, (2) it permits development of water power on rivers that otherwise would not justify it, (3) it saves fuel by permitting the less efficient plants to be shut down at times of light load and (4) it improves the service. Ninety-three per cent of the energy in the superpower zone is generated at 25 and 60 cycles and is almost equally divided between them. The demand for 25-cycle generating capacity is stationary while the demand for 60-cycle generating capacity is increasing rapidly. In an 80,000-kw. turbo generating and distributing plant the saving by using 60 cycles is 19 per cent of the utility investment and 16 per cent of the customer's investment. The total saving is 17.5 per cent. A common frequency is necessary for general interconnection and all signs indicate that this will be 60 cycles. The justification of the superpower system is the saving in cost of power. By the year 1930 the investment for energy supply will be $163,000,000 less than with individual operation. The saving in coal will be 19,000,000 tons per annum. The total annual saving in fixed charges, general expense and operating expense will be $239,000,000. A proper attitude of federal and state regulatory bodies is essential to the success of the superpower project. It should be allowed to earn a liberal income, and capital, labor and the public should share in the benefits. A superpower plan carefully worked out will be a credit to the people of this country not only as an engineering accomplishment but will show our ability to organize large things which will build up industry and at the same time prevent economic waste."
"The power hammer has been in use for a long time and there are now on the market many types of power-operated hammers which may be roughly classed according to the nature of the power as follows: Pneumatic, steam, motor and pulley; cam or crank, and electropneumatic drives. The pneumatic drive includes all riveting hammers; the steam drive includes practically all forge hammers, some drop hammers, pile drivers and steam drills; the motor and pulley drive class, includes the greater part of drop hammers; the electropnuematic drive includes only small forge hammers. The pneumatic hammer, due to its lightness, holds the field of hand-operated riveting hammers and it is hardly possible that any other means will ever surpass air for driving hand-operated riveting hammers; the steam hammer holds its own in very large forging and drop hammers and it is doubtful whether any other kind of hammer can remove it from that place. The field for very large forging or drop hammers is however rather limited; they are used only in very large plants in which all sorts of power prevail. There is an immense field, however, for medium and small forging and drop hammers which are used to produce all the small automobile and other similar parts as well as name plates, jewelry apparel, etc. It is this field which the electric hammer is supposed to cover. The present methods of driving these hammers are cumbersome, complicated, costly and very unsafe for the workman. The electric hammer has been studied and developed by the writer to a point where it seems to show superiority to the present used hammers, in simplicity, safety, running expenses, cost of installation, cost of upkeep and in many cases in the original cost. The development shown herein is of the induction motor type. Instead of the usual arrangement of concentric armature and field, the slots are punched on long strips of iron in a straight line which makes the field and armature parallel. The armature and field still face each other but every part of the aramture is not always active under the influence of the field as is the case in the ordinary motor. In other words in a straight-line motor the armature or runner is continuously entering the field of action at one end and leaving it at the opposite end. This constitutes the main difference between the straight-line and the rotary motor. The rotating fields of an induction motor are here replaced by magnetic fields moving in a straight line. The principal elements of this straight-line induction motor hammer are shown in Fig. 3. The actual hammer as finally constructed is shown in Fig. 5 (back view) and Fig. 6 (front view.)"
"In liquid conductors, such as exist in some electric furnaces, and especially when high current densities are used, the writer has noticed that there are some new electromagnetic forces which do not appear to be accounted for by present mathematical treatments of the subject; as such very mobile conductors respond more readily to these forces than solid conductors do, they make the presence of such forces more evident; and as most of them presumably increase with the square of the current or the product of two currents, a force which under ordinary circumstances may be unnoticed may become quite formidable at such high current densities. Moreover, for a given current the flux encircling a conductor, which is what gives rise to these forces, becomes greater with diminishing cross sections."
"When your chairman asked me to talk to you tonight it was his thought that I should give some striking examples out of my own experience to show the value of research. In considering the matter, it seemed to me that it might be more appropriate to speak of a phase of the subject which is seldom mentioned, and I think not generally well understood, namely, selling research or perhaps more properly, selling the products of research. As to the value of research it seems to me that this audience needs no arguments or examples to convince it that research is worth while. If such is needed from me, it should be sufficient to tell you that my company has for quite a number of years expended upwards of half a million dollars a year for research with an ever increasing program for the future. The present industrial depression has somewhat restricted our activities, but our plans for expansion will undoubtedly go forward as soon as business conditions warrant."
"Relays have been used for many years in wire telegraphy and other electrical work. The practical operation of relays actuated by received radio signals is a comparatively recent development, and has been made possible by the development of the electron tube amplifier. This paper describes the development and the operating principles of a type of relay recorder which is designed to operate from the output terminals of a radio receiving set and which may also be operated by any other source of audio-frequency signal. By the use of special electron tube circuits the audio-frequency signal is caused to operate an ordinary telegraph relay. In order to avoid the necessity for using a very sensitive relay, designed to operate on currents of a milliampere or less, which would have delicate adjustments and light contacts and spring tension, advantage was taken of an electron tube amplifier, which has now become a reliable radio instrument, to increase the input voltage to the relay circuit thus making possible the use of a simple ordinary high-resistance telegraph relay. The relay device has therefore been developed to operate from the output circuit of any suitable amplifier in place of the ordinary telephone receivers. The operation of the relay may serve to work a sounder, buzzer, tape register or any mechanism for remote control by radio. Two types are described. One type is designed to be operated from batteries. The other type is designed to operate entirely from any 60-cycle 110-volt lighting circuit and this feature makes this type simple and inexpensive to operate, durable and practical. Another unique feature is described which is that of tuning to different audio-frequencies whereby any one of three signals, each of a different audio pitch, may be caused to operate the relay to the exclusion of the others. Curves and diagrams, are shown illustrating the principles of operation. By the use of two of these relay recorders connected in series across the output terminals of a single radio receiving set, two messages sent on practically the same wave length but of different audio-frequencies, have been accurately received simultaneously."
"Other papers in the series on electrical apparatus for cranes deal with the requirements as to motors and auxiliary equipment; the latter comprising brakes, overload protective panels and limit switches. This paper on controllers reviews its subject in a general way, without going into any details of the devices employed, presenting a clear view of the fundamental considerations involved. The controlling apparatus of an electric crane is responsible for the prompt and proper accelerating of the several motions; their speed control; the safeguarding of the motors from abuse; the convenience and economy of operation; and the elimination of many dangers due to carelessness. The author touches indirectly on these points but concerns himself chiefly with the character of the controllers best suited to the bridge, trolley and hoist under various conditions. The paper deals fully with the problems concerning the selection of ohmic values for the resistors and also covers very completely the connection arrangements and resistance values involved in the dynamic braking control of lowering loads."
"This is one of a series of papers on the selection of electrical apparatus for cranes and deals with the brakes, overload protective panels and limit switches. Other papers of the series cover the requirements as to motors and control. A magnetic friction brake is needed for every crane hoist, in addition to what may be provided in the way of dynamic braking or mechanical brakes, but its required characteristics are very definitely affected thereby. In selecting a magnetic brake the character of the service must be well understood, and the part that it plays therein, and it must possess an adequate energy dissipating capacity. A definite formula for such selection is given. The paper discusses the various service requirements and describes the several available types of magnet brakes and their particular fields of application. Limit switches, while occasionally employed to limit the travel of the trolley or bridge motions of a crane, are universally used to limit the upward travel of the hook block. Hoist limit switches may be geared to the machine or directly operated by the block. The former do not take into account the stretching of cables and require complete readjustment when new cables are installed. Switches operated by the hook block are the surest. The paper describes the various forms of geared and direct-operated limit switches and points out their relative advantages. Considerations of safety often demand that the operation of the switch not only disconnects the motor but simultaneously closes a dynamic braking circuit for quick stop. The history is given of the evolution of the modern crane overload protective equipment and devices. Fuses and railway type circuit breakers have been tried, but up-to-date equipment employs overload relays in each motor circuit operating in conjunction with magnetic switches. In the interests of safety it is possible to cut off all power instantly by tripping a switch that causes the magnetic switches to open. Safety locks are provided that permit of locking the entire crane equipment against operation. The best results are secured by properly inspected time-element overload relays in each motor circuit and a common-return instantaneous relay."
"As previously announced, the Spring Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held in Chicago, April 19–21, 1922, at the Drake Hotel, which will be the Institute headquarters during the meeting."
"The Annual Convention of the Institute to be held at Niagara Falls, Ontario, during the week of June 26–30, is expected to be one of the best attended conventions which the Institute has ever held on account of its central location, the natural attractions of Niagara and the number of interesting applications of electricity which have been developed in this neighborhood through the use of electric power from the Falls."
"Atlanta. — April 27, 1922. Subject: “Modern Dam Construction.” Speaker: Mr. R. S. Burroughs, of the Ambersen Construction Company."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, March 17, 1922, at 3:00 p. m."
"The A. I. E. E.'s permanent Committee on Code of Principles of Professional Conduct reported to the Board of Directors of the Institute, at a recent meeting, recommending that “to serve as a guide for the membership and for future decisions, the findings of the committee upon cases brought before it be published in the Institute Journal.” This recommendation has been approved; and in accordance therewith, attention is called to the following statements covering recommendations made recently by the committee, and which were later approved by the Board of Directors:"
"On February 18, 1922, President Harding signed the Lampert Patent Office Bill, H. R. 7077. This action marks the end of a long fight waged by the engineering societies through American engineering council to obtain from Congress much needed relief from conditions which were rapidly tending to place the Patent office in a state of uselessness."
"The sixteenth meeting of the Division of Engineering of National research council was held in New York City on February 14, 1922. In addition to the members of the Division attending, there were present, by invitation, Herman Lemp, of the General Electric Company, Prof. V. Karapetoff of Cornell University, and Col. K. G. Maxwell of the research department, Metropolitan-Vickers Company, Ltd., London, as speakers; Capt. Walter Graham, Scientific Associate, Research Information Service; and the following members of the Advisory Board on Electrical Engineering Reserach: E. B. Craft, E. E. F. Creighton, W. A. Del Mar, Bancroft Gherardi, L. F. Morehouse, and S. S. Wheeler."
"At a meeting of the Institute of Radio engineers to be held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York City, on April 5 at 8:15 p. m., a paper on the “Resistance and Capacity of Coils at Radio Frequencies,” by Professor John H. Morecroft of Columbia University, will be presented. The paper describes theoretically and experimentally the behavior of numerous types of inductances at radio frequencies and contains important design data."
"W. C. Starkey has become vice-president of the Stevenson Gear Company, Indianapolis, Ind. He was previously with The Ohio Brass Company, Mansfield, O."
"Roland S. Fend, consulting engineer of Roland S. Fend & Company, Chicago, died on February 18, 1922, following an illness of nearly a year. Mr. Fend was in his 42nd year. Born in Fremont, Ohio, he received his engineering education in a special course at the Cleveland Y. M. C. A. under tutors from the Case School of Applied Science, at the same time working with the Elwell Parker Electric Company. In 1902 he was placed in charge of direct-current generators and motors for this company. Three years later he left to accept the position of superintendent of the electric automobile department of the Columbus Buggy Company, in charge of the design and manufacture of all electric cars made by this company. In 1909 he became chief engineer of the Woods Motor Vehicle Company, Chicago, where he remained until 1917, when he opened his own office in Chicago as consulting engineer. Mr. Fend became a Member of the Institute in 1916."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Akron. — February 22, 1922. Paper: “The Psychology of Success.” Author: Mr. J. W. Bankes, Dean of Teachers' College, Municipal University of Akron. Attendance 15."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies, and not to the A. I. E. E. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"There seems to be a popular superstition among engineers that the voltage and current relations at different points in a transmission line are peculiar and are not governed by Ohms law. This idea is not true. A transmission line is governed by Ohms law just as is any other alternating-current circuit containing resistance inductance and capacity. The only difference from an ordinary circuit is that in a transmission line we must make a correction for the effect of distributed constants. If we change the current flowing through a line by an amount I, there will be a voltage change equal to I Z between the two ends of the line. The Z in this case, however, is corrected for the distributed constants of the line. The hyperbolic formula which are so widely coming into use, since Doctor Kennelly has given us tables of complex hyperbolic functions, are merely short methods of determining this Z as well as certain other constants which we must use. If we start with a certain voltage Eg at the generator; on open circuit, we will have a slightly higher voltage at the receiver, due to the line capacity drawing a leading current through the inductance. As we load the line with a lagging current this voltage rise is counter-acted by the impedance drop. In a similar manner the generator current is equal to the vector sum of the charging current, and the load current which has been multiplied by a constant. It is possible to express these relations by a vector diagram. Drawing a voltage and current diagram on the same sheet and to suitable scales offers a very convenient method of calculation. From such a diagram it is possible to read directly power and power factor as well as condenser kv-a. necessary for voltage regulation."
"Transmitting photographs, drawings, maps, etc., by wire or wireless is a problem to which a solution is near at hand, and the present paper is given anticipating the addition of this to our already long list of applied sciences. A brief history is given of the early beginnings, and some of the modern methods discussed; among the latter being Korn's and Belin's. The Leishman systems are discussed at length because the author has been particularly interested in their development and has been in intimate contact with both inventor and inventions. In the present paper it is hoped that interest of the American engineer may be stimulated in this subject to the end that a successful solution might rightfully be attributed to American genius."
"THE writing of this article is prompted by the fact, brought out at several Institute meetings at which papers dealing with disk insulators were discussed, that although much successful research laboratory work has recently been done to determine the electrical and mechanical characteristics of insulators of this type, there is available practically no accurate information showing the actual operating performance of such insulators during a period of years. Having recently compiled certain information of this kind I take pleasure in making it available to the profession in the hope that those members who are engaged in the field of ceramic research may find it of interest and possibly of some assistance to them in their work, from which I hope will soon be developed a disk insulator possessing greater mechanical and electrical strength than any such insulator at present available."
"Joseph Slepian: Mr. Creighton has explained very clearly the necessity for a high discharge rate in lightning arresters, if any real protection to electrical apparatus is to be obtained. If this high discharge rate path is also open to normal dynamic voltage, then, as Mr. Creighton points out, the large drafts of dynamic power which must be handled by the arrester makes it too large and costly to be practical. A clear case is thus made out for the valve type of arrester."
"W. W. Lewis: In this paper Mr. Creighton draws the conclusion that the overhead grounded wire is in general a detriment to a semi-insulated or high resistance pole line structure. By this I understand that he means not only the horizontal continuous grounded wire but also the vertical grounded wire that is applied to individual poles."
"H. D. James: The selection of the proper size elevator car and the proper speed of operation is very essential for the success of any installation. The tendency is to use car speeds of 500 to 600 ft. per min. on the larger installations and even higher speeds have been tried out in practise. The tendency in New York City towards very high buildings of the tower construction may lead to elevator speeds of 1000 ft. per min. or even more."
"This paper is divided into three parts, the first part consisting of a list of relay nomenclature according to function and application, the second part being a general discussion on relay protection with special reference to an investigation of the Protective Devices Committee to obtain information on transmission line protective scheme and the third part, an illustrated description of the results of the investigation. The thoroughly proved methods have been given scant consideration but the operating results of new schemes have been treated in brief detail with a statement of the condition which led to the adoption of the various schemes. Many of these schemes require the use of special apparatus which is not obtainable in the open market, though in most cases it was possible to use standard apparatus. It is quite probable that some of these special schemes will be adopted by the leading manufacturers with more or less modification. In the majority of the cases cited, the actual operating results showing the number of correct and incorrect relay operations have been given and it is probable that this is the first time that such a disclosure has been so generously and frankly made. Standard names for relays as to function and application as well as qualifying terms which always have the same meaning are very desirable. The number of types of relays now in common use are so great that considerable confusion has resulted from a previous lack of uniformity of identifying designations. This confusion will be eliminated if the manufacturers and users of relays employ the terms given in the paper, which have been approved by the Standards Committee of the Institute. The first paper of a series contemplated by the Protective Devices Committee was presented three years ago. This is the second paper. Both of these deal with transmission line relay protection, and the Committee now plans to broaden its work to include also relays for protection of apparatus with the expectation of presenting additional data before the Institute as the art progresses. The entire basis of the present paper is the experience of operating companies as reported by their engineers. The general theory of relays has been almost completely disregarded. The use of combination over-current and directional schemes has become common due to the very satisfactory results that have been obtained with these relays. Differential current schemes for parallel lines are increasing in popularity on account of their freedom from a-c. potential connections. Their use is limited, however; the differential power method using directional relays is suitable in those cases where the simpler current balance is not. The tendency appears to be in favor of balancing parallel feeders wherever possible to secure freedom from faulty operation on through faults together with quick action in case of trouble on one of the group. A number of different schemes, based generally on the same principle, is described in considerable detail. The split conductor protection, though apparently successful, does not seem to be extending greatly beyond the early installations in this country, principally on account of the high cost of the cable. Pilot wire protection, while abandoned by some operators, is being tried out in newer forms by others with some apparent likelihood of future extension. The use of ground relays has been considerably extended particularly on systems having neutrals grounded through a comparatively high resistance. The application of these ground relays with regard to current and time settings is based on the same principles that apply for the relays connected in the phase. Both over-current and directional relays have been used with apparently successful results. By energizing only in case of accidental ground these relays may be set for much lower current values than the phase relays and in some cases at lower time values. The ground relays may be connected to sheath transformers or in the residual circuit of three current transformers of the usual type. Several applications of ground relays with pilot wire connections have been reported. A very sensitive potential ground relay scheme for the protection of comparatively isolated circuits has been operating with good results for a number of years. In one case, in order to avoid the necessity of installing grounding transformers, provision has been made to ground a second phase of the bus when it is shown by potential ground relays that an accidental ground has occurred on one phase. In this way a phase short circuit is produced permitting the faulty section to be isolated by standard over-current and directional relays. An application of the combination of under-voltage and over-current relays is described. It takes into consideration the feature that the potential would be reduced proportionately as the faults is approached which adds a further degree of selectivity to the ordinary current method. Accurate calculation of short circuit currents has proved highly desirable and considerable data concerning mathematical and mechanical methods of making these calculations are described. General principles of relay application and practise concerning relay settings are discussed. Some notes are included relative to foreign practise and some of the outstanding features of installations in use in other countries have been described."
"THE dielectric strength of air is 30 kv. per cm. at 0 deg. cent. and 76 cm. barometric pressure. It is proportional to the air density over a considerable range. It reaches a minumim in a moderate vacuum. Beyond this, it increases again, and in a very high vacuum reaches high values. much higher than at atmospheric pressure."
"THE subject of the reconstruction of the St. Lawrence River, and the results to be obtained therefrom, lead us into magnitudes that are very difficult of practical visualization. In order that you may be properly oriented I would like to refer you to the map, Fig. 1. In the course of my remarks I will call your attention to a general plan which I have worked out for a part of this reconstruction, and will give you a general description of my ideas as to what should be done with the remainder of the river. It is my present belief that the best public interest demands that the St. Lawrence River should be harnessed by the construction of five dams; the first one being located at Cat Island above Massena, the second at the foot of the Long Sault, the third at the foot of Cedar Rapids, the fourth at Cascades Point, and the fifth at Cote St. Paul."
"THE great channels of trade in North America run east and west. The great river systems of the continent run north and south. There is, however, one striking exception to this general rule, where the course of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence breaks through the Appalachian Range, and forms a continuous waterway, 2000 miles in length, from the center of the continent to the Atlantic Ocean. Much of this water course is now open to navigation and the American Great Lakes have within the last twenty years witnessed the most remarkable maritime developments of any section in the world. The Lakes extend approximately 1000 miles from Duluth or Chicago to Buffalo through the very heart of America; and within the last two decades there has grown up on these Lakes a traffic whose tonnage exceeds that of the Mediterranean and the Black Sea combined; indeed the movement of vessels through the locks between Lake Superior and Lake Huron is twice the combined movement of vessels through the Suez and Panama Canals, and more tonnage passes Detroit in nine months than clears from New York or Liverpool in a year. Along or near these Great Lakes lives approximately forty per cent of the population of the United States. Not only are the shores of the Lakes thickly populated, but the territory contiguous to them is rich in agriculture and in mineral products. Wheat, grain, livestock, iron, coal and copper are among the great inheritance of this rich fertile region of our country. This region has also become a great manufacturing center. Flour, foodstuffs, packing products, automobiles, rails and other heavy steel products, and many other articles of commerce are produced in this region; and these articles, as well as the products of the soil and the mines, flow eastward over the waters of the Great Lakes until the port of Buffalo is reached, where they must be transferred to the rails, and move the last 500 miles of their journey to the seaboard by car rather than by boat."
"THE question as to whether the United States shall help Canada defray the expense of improving the St. Lawrence river, as Mr. Cooper said, is a great question. It is one that involves an enormous amount of money and it would take, the engineers estimate, at least ten years to do the work. So we should know well before we begin what the problem is, what it promises, how it compares with other things. It is a great transportation problem. Primarily at the base of it is the question of transportation. Water power is purely incidental."
"THE design and construction of the three 500-kw., 578,000-volt transformers and of the 500-kw. insulating transformer were given in Part I of this paper1, which included also illustrations of single-phase arcs between sharp points, spaced 9, 11 and 14 ft. apart and corresponding to the crest voltages of sine potential waves having effective values of approximately 1,000,000, 1,200,000 and 1,500,000 volts."
"W. A. Del Mar: I would like to ask the author why the successive tests were made on the same sample of oil. We have done a good deal of oil testing, and have always taken the precaution to pick out fresh clear samples for the tests. I am wondering whether more uniform results would be obtained if a fresh sample of oil were used for each test, than if you used the same sample five hundred times? It would seem that the matter of the chemical decomposition of the oil would enter into the problem, and that has not been mentioned in the paper."
"E. S. Lee: Those of us who are engaged in making temperature measurements know that heat is elusive and gets away from us very easily, and we have to take due consideration of the fact that it may go from one place to another by conduction or by convection or by radiation; the measurement of temperature is therefore complex."
"V. Karapetoff: Let us take a machine shop, say with thirty identical machines, where thirty operators perform the same operation, for instance, turning a rod to a smaller diameter. Before each machine-tool raw parts are piled up, and when the whistle blows in the morning these men begin operations. Each one takes a piece, fastens it in the lathe, runs the cut, unfastens the piece and puts it back on another tray. Then he takes again another piece and performs the same operation. But all operators do not start at the same instant. Mr. Jones assumes that each machine is driven by an individual motor and as soon as the operation is completed the motor is stopped. Because the men do not start at the same instant, there is some phase displacement in the cycles, and Mr. Jones' problem is to evaluate, by the theory of probabilities, the demand on the power plant under those conditions."
"C. P. Steinmetz: This paper is interesting in the deductions you draw from it, because the statement made that a short gas path will not carry a discharge at voltages which will go over a much longer gas path, is rather in contradiction of our present ideas of the nature of breakdown in gases as determined by constant breakdown gradient."
"Philip Torchio: I would like to ask Mr. Scheffler why contrast higher steam pressures against pulverized coal. Why not both? What is inconsistent between the two? The pulverized coal situation as affecting large cities is mostly a question of improving means to handle the ashes that come from the stacks. Until that problem has been definitely solved, it would be practically inadvisable to attempt, in a densely populated district, to install on a very large scale a system of coal burning that would scatter a considerable amount of ashes in the territory surrounding the station."
"IT has been the aim of the Committee on Electrical Machinery during the past administrative year to extend its usefulness, as heretofore, to a survey of the art through descriptive papers and the arrangement of meetings for their presentation in cooperation with the Meetings and Papers Committee and to assist in the clarification of work in connection with the standardization of temperatures in electrical machinery."
"To the Board of Directors: This committee has not been active for some years, due principally to the facts that the subjects falling properly within its scope are more advantageously treated on the chemical and metallurgical sides than on the electrical, and have, therefore, been much more actively dealt with by some of the other engineering societies, notably the American Electrochemical Society and the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers. At the outset this situation was discussed with the various members of the committee, of whom five showed an active interest in the work."
"To the Board of Directors: The Committee on Transmission and Distribution submits its report for the year 1921–1922 under the following headings: 1. Report of the Cable Research Committee. 2. General Review of Construction Problems in Overhead Transmission and Distribution. 3. Underground Distribution Practise on Edison D-C. Systems. 4. Testing of Underground Transmission and Distribution Cables. 5. Foreign Practise in Transmission and Distribution Systems. 6. Review of Papers Submitted During the Year."
"The diagram shown in Fig. 1 gives a graphical record of the cost of light from the early days of electric lighting up to the present date. In 1885 the best available lamp was a 16-c. p. carbon lamp consuming about five watts per candle and costing $1.00. At that early date the cost of current was very high, too, such figures as we have been able to locate indicating an average price of about 20 cents per kilowatt-hour. Under these conditions, the cost of lighting was so high that the consumer got only 98 lumen-hours for one cent."
"If the full effectiveness of a street lighting system is to be secured, it is fundamentally important that a regular and adequate maintenance schedule be adopted. As the following investigation strikingly brings out, it is quite possible for an installation to depreciate to such an extent as to deliver only one-third of the amount of light on the street it would be expected to deliver under good operating practise."
"A panel display shown in the accompanying illustration has been effectively used to show good and bad lighting practise in the use of decorative wall brackets. This panel attracted considerable attention and comment at the Milwaukee Fixture Market and at the Convention of the National Electric Light Association at Atlantic City."
"A neat, compact outfit for demonstrating what good lighting is, how modern lighting equipment often is abused, and how varied the possibilities of lighting are, is contained in a suitcase no larger than many salesmen's sample case. The complete outfit weighs less than 40 pounds which allows easy handling in a street car, automobile, or passenger train. The suitcase contains 29 sockets and receptacles and 19 switches, more outlets than in the average modern 10-room home."
"As announced about a year ago, the Board of Directors of the A. I. E. E., at a meeting held in August 1921, adopted the policy of holding four general meetings of the Institute each year, all other meetings to be under the auspices of the various Sections — the intention being that many of the papers submitted to the Institute would be presented at Section meetings; the underlying purpose being to assist in increasing the importance and standards of meetings of the Sections, with the understanding that the papers presented at Sections would be considered for publication in the Institute Journal and Transactions, on the same basis as papers presented at general meetings."
"Akron. — November 28, 1922. A film story will be given entitled “The Story of an Electric Meter,” with explanation by Mr. R. J. Andrews of the Sangamo Electric Company."
"The next meeting of the American engineering council will be held on January 11 and 12, 1923 in Washington, D. C. in accordance with provisions of the constitution. Many vital questions are expected to come up for discussion, which may result in definite instructions being given by the Council to the Executive Board for the ensuing year."
"The committee which was appointed to make special recommendation on this subject submitted the following suggestions, the principles of which were approved by the Board:"
"A Sectional Committee has been formed for the revision of Part 2 of the National Electrical Safety Code dealing with the rules for overhead line construction. This committee will conform to the Rules of Procedure of the American engineering standards committee which has adopted the Electrical Safety Code as an American standard. The same committee will draw up standard specifications for crossings of overhead lines with other utilities."
"John S. Timmons has been for the past two years in the manufacturing business under his own name in Philadelphia, Pa."
"George J. Blum of Charlotte, N. C., Associate of the A. I. E. E., was killed in a collision between his automobile and a train at Linwood, N. C. on September 26th."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Boston. — October 3, 1922. Joint meeting with the A. S. M. E. Subject: “Gyroscopic Stabilization of Ships.” Speaker: Mr. Lea. Interesting discussion followed. Attendance 130."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be publishedwithout charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"The rapid growth in the demand for electric power and the increasing distances to which transmission is desirable, have constantly forced the use of higher transmission voltages. The Southern California Edison Company, having two single-circuit tower lines 241 miles long from its Big Creek hydroelectric plants to near Los Angeles, had the alternative of either duplicating these lines or of raising the voltage upon them. The latter procedure was found to be vastly the more economical. Other things being equal, the amount of power that can be transmitted varying with the square of the voltage, and the existing voltage being 150 kv., a doubling of capacity will result by raising the voltage to 220 kv. To avoid the difficulties inherent in changing over generating and substations built for the lower voltage, and in which adequate clearances would be very difficult to obtain, it was decided to use auto-transformers at each such station, transforming between 150 and 220 kv. Additional sectionalizing switching stations will be built in the line, making six in all, so that the rebuilding of the line may be done without crippling service, and insulator testing can be done at any convenient time. An extension of the line 30 miles in length will be built so that the completed 220-kv. system will be 270 miles long. Preparatory to the final design, a considerable amount of investigation and research was carried on. The best form of insulation that would fit existing towers had to be determined, standard suspension insulators being preferred over new untried designs. Laboratory high-voltage tests of insulation at oscillator frequencies of 30,000 and 50,000 cycles and at continuous 60 cycles were undertaken in order to get as much information as possible, all such tests being made in dummy towers so as to duplicate actual conditions as nearly as possible. The next step was to equip 27 miles of one Big Creek line with additional insulators and shield rings and carry out field tests. This section of line was energized to 280 kv. for one month, and to 241 kv. for about five months, extending through the greater part of the rainy season. Considerable care was taken to obtain reliable measurements of voltage, current and corona losses. The results of the laboratory and field tests lead to the firm belief that nothing extraordinary will happen with 220-kv. transmission. The difference between operation at this voltage and existing voltages will be only of degree. There seems to be no pressing need of new designs of insulator so that as new designs are developed they may be given the acid test of time on unimportant lines where their failure will be of small moment."
"Electron tube amplifiers now form an important part of practically all radio receiving sets except the most simple types. Storage cells, which have heretofore usually been required for operating amplifiers, require constant attention, are bulky and heavy, and have other serious disadvantages. The dry cells, which are often used as a source of plate voltage, have a comparatively short life and are expensive and inconvenient. It would be much more convenient to use an amplifier which could be supplied with power from 100-volt, 60-cycle mains. This paper describes a five-stage amplifier which operates satisfactorily on 60-cycle supply for both filaments and plates. This amplifier has three radio-frequency stages and two audio-frequency stages, and uses a crystal detector. A special transformer with five windings is used, the primary being supplied with 110-volts a-c. The 60-cycle current when used in an ordinary amplifier circuit introduces a strong 60-cycle note which offers serious interference. This has been practically eliminated by balancing resistances, grid condensers and special grid leaks of comparatively low resistance, telephone transformer in the output circuit, and crystal detector instead of electron tube detector. In the final form of the amplifier, there is only a slight residual hum which is not objectionable. The amplification obtained with a-c. supply was as good as that obtained with the same amplifier used with d-c. supply. The complete unit is light, compact, and portable. For the reception of damped waves, the amplifier as constructed operated most satisfactorily for wave lengths from 200 to 750 meters. This range was determined by the working range of the radio-frequency transformers used. By using suitable radio-frequency transformers, it is expected that the amplifier will be effective for the reception of damped waves and undamped waves as long as 10,000 meters. For the reception of undamped waves, a separate heterodyne should be employed. The paper gives circuit diagrams, and states the values of the condensers, resistors and inductors used."
"Some of the factors met in the design of insulators and characteristics of routine electrical tests are discussed in this paper. A new overpotential test is described with its application and effects. Results of this test make possible a higher standard of practise in the manufacture and use of transmission line insulators. Ever increasing responsibility is being placed upon transmission line insulators. To establish by specific tests that each insulator put into service has a liberal initial factor of safety and further to be assured that the insulator will be proof against deterioration in service is the ideal toward which we are working."
"Three thousand successive disruptive strength tests are herewith shown. These were made in six groups with 500 tests in each group under constant conditions of test. Three groups of tests were taken of standard insulating oil with three different shapes of the electrostatic field; small sphere gap, large sphere gap, and sphere-needle gap. One group of tests was made with commercial and another with chemically pure benzol. The last group was made with air as a dielectric. A brief review of results and conclusions follows. In measuring the voltage by a single sphere gap, set in air with reasonable care, the maximum error of test does not exceed 4 per cent and the average error is 1 per cent. In the average of six successive tests the maximum error decreases from 4 per cent to 2.9 per cent and the average error decreases from 1 per cent to 0.6 of 1 per cent. In contrast to air, the behavior of oil is very erratic. Successive observations of its disruptive voltage, made under most carefully controlled conditions, differed by a percentage many times greater than the accuracy of the test, — the minimum value was as low as 49 per cent of the maximum. This inconstancy of the disruptive strength of oil appears inherent to the material. Little of the variation is dependent on the shape and size of the electrostatic field. Much of the variation is due probably to the complex chemical and physical nature of the oil. Benzol gives far more consistent values of disruptive strength than oil, the more so the purer it is, but nevertheless benzol is much more erratic than air. Under successive tests oil, first slowly and then more rapidly, deteriorates by carbonization due to the disruption. Benzol deteriorates very rapidly at first, and then becomes fairly constant. Filtration restores the initial disruptive strength, but the filtered material seems to deteriorate more rapidly than new material. This information indicates that there is either an intermediate chemical state of the disintegrated product or an absorption."
"The Colorado River drains an area of 250,000 square miles in the States of Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, Nevada and New Mexico, Arizona and California, and in the Mexican States of Sonora and Lower California. It is the third largest river basin in the United States and is fourth in volume of waters. The basin contains some five million acres of irrigable land and possibilities for power development exceeding six million horse power. The upper section of the river to the Utah-Arizona State line comprises 40 per cent of the basin, contains one-half of the irrigable land, supplies 87 per cent of the annual run-off, and could develop some two million horse power. Developments in this section, particularly storage, are likely to result in conflict between power and irrigation. The middle section from the Utah-Arizona line to the mouth of the Williams River comprises 35 per cent of the area, contains comparatively little irrigable land and supplies only 7 per cent of the annual run-off. This section, mainly in deep canyon, has a drop of about 3,000 feet and could produce four million horse power. The lower section with 25 per cent of the area of the basin has two and a quarter million acres of the best irrigable lands, provides 6 per cent of the run-off and has comparatively small power resources. The most valuable lands in the basin are in the Imperial Valley, which, due to the fact that it is below sea-level and that the delta of the Colorado is very unstable, is constantly menaced by floods. The chief immediate problem on the river is, therefore, flood protection for this valley. Such protection can be secured by a storage reservoir either at the head or at the foot of the middle section. The latter site appears the more immediately available. The upper site would, however, afford adequate flood protection and give irrigation regulation for many years, and would, in addition, control the middle section for power development. The location of the primary storage on the river is an important matter and may determine the whole course of power development. The rate of power development on the Colorado is a question of markets. With the exception of the mining district of Arizona, which might absorb 100,000 horse power, there is no present market in the basin sufficient to justify large-scale development. The most available outside market is Southern California which apparently could furnish sufficient demand for the initiation of power development on a considerable scale. Extension of such development in the future would involve interconnection, common control, and long-distance transmission. Applications involving the Colorado and aggregating four and one-half million horse power are on file with the Federal Power Commission which has suspended action awaiting decisions upon collateral matters. The individual states have control over the appropriation of waters within their limits. To avoid the danger of future interstate litigation over water rights, the Colorado River Commission was created under authority of Act of Congress to work out a “compact” or “treaty” between the several States. It has not yet reached any conclusions. The stream also is international and irrigation rights in Mexico are involved. Finally, there is conflict over the question whether development shall be made by private capital or by the Government. These various conflicts of interests and of agencies are likely to postpone for a considerable time the solution of the problem of Colorado River development."
"This paper covers a general description of the entire Queenston-Chippewa development of the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario, on the Canadian side of the Niagara River, which will have an ultimate capacity approximating 650,000 h. p. The general scheme of the development comprises an intake structure in the Niagara River at Chippewa; the utilization, by deepening and widening, of the Welland River as a part of the waterway for 4½ miles; the construction of a canal 8½ miles long from the Wetland River to the forebay and screen house on the top of the Niagara escarpment about a mile south of Queenston village; and the construction and equipment of the power house in the gorge immediately below the forebay. The entire design was carried out with the express object of producing power most efficiently from the available water at the lowest possible cost. Important features of the waterway are described, covering the special design of intake works to avoid ice troubles; the control gate in the canal; the concrete lined canal channel, and the consideration given the design of canal, forebay, screen house, penstocks and draft tubes to obtain the best hydraulic results. Of special interest to hydroelectric engineers is the use of the largest capacity turbines and vertical shaft generators that have ever been constructed; the size of the step-up transformers; the design and arrangement of relay systems and of switching equipment to take care of the extremely heavy short-circuit conditions; and features of the design of the power house whereby in every 50-foot length of building all equipment for one 45,000-kv-a. unit, covering penstock, turbine, generator, switching equipment, transformers and outgoing line, is accommodated; the provision of the main floor in the generator room at the top of the generator frame; also the use of a control pedestal on main floor at each unit whereby the turbine and generator may be conveniently operated. Power for the plant service equipment is obtained from two separate small units, entirely independent of the main units, and 25-cycle current is used exclusively for service equipment motors, including the 300-ton crane equipment and the elevators."
"FOR the past two years the Standards Committee has been studying the present rules concerning the temperature limits of Class B insulation and the detector method of temperature measurement, as applied to large machines, and related subjects."
"DURING the year 1920 an invitation was received by the General Electric Company from the Consolidated Gas Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore, Maryland and the Pennsylvania Water and Power Company to submit oil circuit breakers for test on their system in Baltimore. The object of the test was to develop a breaker which would satisfactorily handle a short circuit on the 13,200-volt, 25-cycle system as it then existed, and show an apparent factor of safety at that load (20,000 to 25,000 r. m. s. amperes) which would be fairly conclusive to them that the breaker would also handle a short circuit on the system of at least 40,000 amperes. r. m. s. when the generating capacity had been increased by a proposed new generating station."
"The city of Hamilton, Ohio, has recently installed a modern street lighting system which makes this city at night one of the best lighted cities in that state. The early system, now displaced, consisted of about 750 enclosed carbon arc lamps haphazardly located and mounted at various heights. The. illumination received from it was quite low. The new system now in use consists of approximately 1500 incandescent units of the dome refractor, rippled glass globe type, equipped with lamps ranging in size from 2500 lumens (250 c. p.) in the outlying districts up to 10,000 lumens (1,000 c. p.) in the downtown business districts bordering on the White Way. The white-way system (located in the main business district) is lighted with 300-watt, 110-volt, multiple lamps installed in upright encasing units on single light standards spaced 60 feet apart. This part of the lighting system formerly consisted of five-light clusters with four 60-watt and one 100-watt incandescent lamps. The new units are superior both as to effectiveness and economy. A tsome future time this white-way system will be changed from multiple to series. In the downtown districts the 1,000-lumen pendant units are mounted 20 feet high and spaced 300 feet apart. On the wide streets the lamps are mounted on both sides of the street and staggered so as to give the proper distribution of light for both automobile drivers and pedestrians; on narrow streets in this district the lamps are mounted on one side only. In certain locations the height and density of the tree foliage necessitates a mounting height of about 16 feet. In the residential sections of the city 4000- and 6000-lumen (400- and 600- c. p.) lamps are used in pendant fixtures. The units are spaced from 300 to 400 feet apart and are mounted approximately 18 feet above the street. While supplying much better street illumination in every way than the earlier lighting system, the new system requires less power for its operation than the earlier one."
"A number of carefully conducted tests has proved that increased production in industrial plants results when high level illumination is employed. This fact must depend on some relation between the ability to see and the intensity of illumination. If a man can see more readily he obviously can work more rapidly, with greater confidence, and increase the output."
"Mr. A. W. Devine, headlighting inspector at the Registry of Motor Vehicles, Boston, Mass., who is directly responsible for the enforcement of the motor vehicle lighting laws in the state of Massachusetts recently made an analysis of 800 night accidents which occurred on the Massachusetts highways during 1920 and 1921. A great many more accidents than this occurred during that time, but only 400 representative accidents are analyzed each year; the figures given, therefore, are an average of the results for two years. Mr. Devine found that of the 800 night accidents which he investigated, 25 per cent were due entirely to the lighting conditions; 17½ per cent being due to insufficient road illumination and 7½ per cent to glare. The ratio of the number of accidents due to each cause is very significant. The popular opinion among state officials and others interested in motor vehicle lighting has been that glare is the predominating evil. The results of this analysis would indicate that as the cause of highway accidents at night, glare is not half so serious as insufficient road illumination."
"During the past year, Dr. M. Luckiesh of the Nela Research Laboratories has been investigating the effects of higher intensities of illumination on the speed of reading, and has found a definite increase of “speed of vision” as the illumination intensities increased. For ordinary reading matter (black print on white paper) the speed of reading increased 15 per cent when the illumination increased from 4 to 16 foot-candles. For black print on gray paper, the increase in speed was 50 per cent when the illumination intensity increased from 4 to 16 foot-candles. These data show the value of increasing the intensity of illumination and the results can safely be extended to cover many other visual processes in factory, office or home."
"This paper deals with short-circuit tests made recently at Baltimore on dead tank oil circuit breakers of Westinghouse manufacture. Tests were made against the combined capacities of the Consolidated Gas, Electric Light & Power Company and the Pennsylvania Water & Power Company systems, and currents as high as 24,000 amperes at 13,200 volts were interrupted repeatedly. Tests on breakers of different sizes are described, the rupturing capacity ratings of the breakers referred to, ranging from 10,000 amperes at 15,000 volts up to 40,000 amperes at 15,000 volts. Improvements of design and construction have greatly increased the ability of this type and make of breaker to handle heavy short-circuit currents and severe duty cycles. The demonstration connected with the opening of heavy short circuits, including oil throwing and gas ejection, has been controlled and the fire hazard greatly reduced. A positive means for preventing oil throw, while at the same time relieving gas pressures in breaker tanks, has been developed. Data are given regarding tripping speed, length of arc duration, and condition of the oil and circuit-breaker structure after the tests."
"Investigations into the phenomena of electrical precipitation of suspended particles from gases during recent years have resulted in some important conclusions. The purpose of this paper is to present these conclusions briefly, without entering into a detailed discussion of the actual equations used in designing precipitators, and of calculations embodying their use."
"In the beginning, the Cottrell Process of Electrical Precipitation was greatly handicapped by the fact that there did not exist standard electrical equipment which could be used to develop the necessary potentials under the severe conditions imposed by the mechanical rectifier, used for rectifying the high-potential alternating current. The transformers used were a constant source of trouble and annoyance. This condition delayed the rapid accumulation of accurate data pertaining to precipitation phenomena, since those engaged in the work were kept busy in merely maintaining a source of power. It was not long, however, before the electrical manufacturing companies were interested in the problems involved, and better transformers were produced. These transformers have now been developed to a degree which is very nearly the equal of the ordinary power transformers of the same voltage ratings. For several years there was a demand for higher and higher voltage ratings, owing to the belief that through the use of very high potentials and consequent large electrode spacing the size and cost of precipitators could be greatly reduced. Potentials as high as 250,000 volts were experimented with, but such high voltages proved to be impractical. Transformers were finally standardized at a voltage ratio of 220 or 440 to 100,000 volts, with taps in the low tension to give 50, 62.5, 75, 87.5 and 100 kilovolts. The capacities were 10, 15 and 25 kv-a. The 100,000-volt transformer of 15-kv-a. capacity has been used in the majority of installations."
"The annual convention of the Institute has just convened in Niagara Falls as this issue of the Journal goes to press. With a registered attendance of over 950, the Convention promises to be one of the most successful in the history of the Institute. The program as announced in the June Journal will be carried out in full."
"PLANS for the 1922 Pacific Coast Convention have progressed to an extent which permits us to announce a complete program of the convention in this issue of the Journal. While this program is still to be regarded as tentative it is expected that no essential modifications will be found necessary in the schedules published herewith."
"The Rocky mountain electrical exposition to be held at Bonneville Park, Salt Lake City, Utah, from October 2 to 14, will be an event of note for this section of the country, which has had no annual electrical shows. It will be held under the auspices of The Rocky Mountain Electrical Cooperative League, with the active support of electrical interests, commercial interests and educational institutions of several states. Numerous lectures, explaining the advantages of electrical appliances and their operation, from a disinterested viewpoint, will be an attraction of the exposition. The exhibits will include practically every application of electricity. A feature of the electric display will be the “Regional” Arch."
"A standardization program of considerable importance to the iron and steel, lumber, electrical, construction, chemical, railway and railway supply industries is presented in the submission by the American Electric Railway Association of 13 standards for approval by the American engineering standards committee."
"A Directory of Hydraulic Laboratories in the United States has been compiled under the direction of the Hydraulic Research Committee of Engineering foundation, the members of which are J. Waldo Smith, Chief Engineer, Board of Water Supply of the City of New York, and Silas H. Woodward, consulting engineer, New York. The book has eighty-four 7 by 10 inch pages and contains information concerning 49 laboratories in engineering colleges, industrial establishments and governmental bureaus. Only statements furnished by the person responsible for the laboratory have been used in each case. Indirectly, this information affords comparison of equipment in the various laboratories and suggests possibilities of greater usefulness in some instances. The information will be helpful to those contemplating the establishments of new laboratories, to persons desiring to have hydraulic tests or experiments performed, and to students choosing schools in which to pursue the study of hydraulic engineering."
"Hans J. Norregaard, who became an Associate of the Institute in 1920, died in Europe March 30, 1922. Mr. Norregaard had worked in the U. S. with the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., the General Electric Co., Stone & Webster, of Boston, the Interborough Rapid Transit Co., New York City, and the New York Edison Co. He was born in Christiana, Norway, in 1897, and attended the Hortens Engineering College, Norway. He also spent one year in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Akron. — April 26, 1922, Engineering Society of Akron Rooms. Subject: “Contribution of Electrical Science to the Religious Thought of This Generation.” Speaker: Dr. Lloyd C. Douglas, First Congregational Church of Akron. Attendance 30."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"This paper presents a brief discussion of the current transformer as used with measuring and controlling apparatus with special reference to the degree of accuracy which can be attained in the ratio and phase angle. A new type of current transformer is then described, in which it is possible to secure much higher accuracy with a given amount of iron and copper in the transformer. In this new device the transformation is effected in two stages, the first yielding in the usual way a secondary current which is approximately correct in magnitude and phase, and the second yielding an auxiliary corrective current which, when combined with the first secondary current, gives a resultant current which very closely approximates to the secondary current which would be furnished by an ideal current transformer having no errors. The two currents may easily be combined by having two like windings in the devices operated, one for the main and one for the auxiliary secondary current. The mathematical theory of the two-stage current transformer is developed and applied. Experimental curves are given to compare the performance of the new transformer with that of an ordinary simple current transformer of good average performance. The effect of mutual inductance between the external secondary circuits is discussed, and some of the special advantages of the new transformer are given."
"In view of the tremendous growth of electric power systems it has been realized for sometime by many of the larger operating companies that many of the old circuit breakers were not adequate for the increased duty. There seemed also to be considerable uncertainty as to the actual ratings of many of the more modern types. It was realized that this condition was largely due to the fact that the manufacturer was handicapped in making tests due to lack of power. These circumstances led the Consolidated Gas, Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore and the Pennsylvania Water and Power Co. to make a series of oil switch tests on their interconnected 13, 200-volt, 25-cycle power system, cooperating with the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company and the General Electric Company. The largest generating capacity used on these tests was 170,000 kw. Currents obtained vary from 750 to 23,700 ruptured r. m. s. arc amperes. All of the tests were made by throwing three-phase metallic short circuits directly on the system which the breaker under test was called upon to clear immediately. Proper protection of the system was provided in case of failure of test breaker. Three oscillographs were utilized to record the sequence of events. A total of about 200 short circuits was made directly on the Baltimore system without any breakdown whatever of the major equipment of the two operating companies, and in practically all cases without causing more than a momentary voltage disturbance to the system. The results as described in the papers submitted by Messrs. Hilliard and MacNeill indicate that it is possible with proper design to build oil circuit breakers which can be relied upon to satisfactorily interrupt large currents on high-capacity systems many times in succession without damage to the breakers, without oil throw, and without change of oil or adjustments."
"Attention is called to the fact that very few of those who take engineering courses in the colleges are fitted by previous mathematical training to take up the work properly. Suggestion, therefore, is made that all engineering courses drop back into the more elementary mathematics during the first year, in order to give a thorough drilling in the practical use of such mathematics, with a view better to fitting the students for more advanced work. It is believed that with this elementary training the students can make much more rapid progress in their advanced work, not only in engineering work, but in physics, mechanics and various other related lines. Moreover such a course would assist the schools in eliminating those who are totally unfit for engineering work, and thus overcome one of the most serious defects of the prsent technical courses. The application of mathematics to practical work should be taught much more thoroughly than at present, but that appears to be impossible under the present circumstances where the students have a very incomplete elementary training."
"The author points out that a college course should turn out men who have acquired habits of clear thinking, concentration, perception, observation, and decision. These men should have some knowledge of the details of the subject on which they plan to specialize in later life, but this knowledge is purely incidental and is acquired in illustrating the broad principles which are useful in all phases of engineering education. It doesn't really matter much on what a young man thinks he will specialize when he leaves school, if he has clearly in mind that the purpose of education is to train his mind to enable him to acquire as much fundamental knowledge as possible, and also to acquire an incidental knowledge of the specific applications of such fundamental knowledge. The obvious point to the paper is that mental training is the principal thing, assuming, as a matter of course that physical and moral training are sufficient to physically support an active mind. The man has well begun his education who has acquired the inclination and the ability for self study and development, and who graduates with the thought that he has merely begun a lifetime of self education. His college education has served its purpose if it has given him a good start. The author suggests that the instructors in our colleges should be given an opportunity thoroughly to acquaint themselves with the industry for which they are training men by spending one year out of three in industry, the other two years to be spent in teaching."
"The college training should he directed to imparting to the students the fundamentals of all physical sciences. Elementary calculus and analytical geometry should form the ground work to equip the pupil with the tools for analytical study of the problems of engineering applications. Laboratory work and drawing serve to solidify the theoretical ideas. The sound study of a foreign language is of vital importance to broaden the education of an embryo engineer. Any course of study that disciplines the mind is beneficial to the student. Anything that is easy does not discipline."
"The more complicated communication systems, their use and importance on railroads, the extension of power transmission lines and electrification of railroads with the resultant effects upon the communication systems require that technical men, who preferably have been given special training that will qualify them to handle such problems, be employed in railroad telegraph and telephone departments. Many problems are in common with the large wire-using commercial companies but others are peculiar to communication systems on railroads."
"Some fundamental requirements in the character of a successful engineer as a man and as an engineer are outlined, together with considerations of the school and the instructor to produce and train such a character. Some ideal accomplishments to be attained are pointed out."
"The author considers the first requisite of college training to be a thorough drilling in the fundamentals in physics. A student who is well grounded in the fundamentals is in the best position subsequently to acquire a knowledge of details. The student's most useful tool to work with is mathematics, but this should be taught to engineers by one who considers it an engineer's tool, and not a source of amusement. All the mathematical results should convey as clear a quantitative meaning to the engineer as numbers do when they represent an amount of money. A third requisite is the use of mental exercises to develop mental strength. The student should be disciplined by mental exercises in the form of problems which should have some practical significance, so as to show the utility of the mental process, thereby developing interest. Today is the era of specialists; even electrical engineering, as one subdivision of engineering, is again subdivided into so many branches that a student should either make a choice between them, at least in his last college year, or take a special post-graduate course. Different colleges would do well to specialize on different subjects, especially in their post-graduate courses. The writer has urged that at a time when a student must choose his vocation he has little knowledge of what his choice involves, and it is suggested that the regular college courses should include lectures describing the different vocations, the nature of the work involved in each of them, and the prospects of advancement, salaries, etc. Success in teaching can be measured by the interest that the teaching can develop in the minds of the students. It is a mistake to keep the able students back to the level of the poorest in the class. The brightest students should be given every possible opportunity to advance."
"Introduction UNDER the auspices of the Wires and Cables Subcommittee of the Standards Committee of the Institute, a symposium on the rating of cables with reference to heating due to conductor losses only, was held during the 1921 Midwinter Convention of the Institute with the object of checking the Institute's standards in regard to permissible operating temperatures for cable insulation. That is, the discussion was limited to the matter of the safe maximum operating temperature of low-voltage cables with negligible dielectric losses."
"When transmission cables were first operated at potentials exceeding about 7500 volts, it was noted that cable failures occurred in service with loads materially below those which had theretofore been found to be permissible with low-voltage cables, and this reduction in carrying capacity increased with increase of the normal working potential. For example the author has previously reported that No. 0 A. W. G. four conductor cables operating on a four-wire three-phase system with a maximum normal potential of about 4000 volts between phases carry 200 amperes on each of three conductors without damage due to the overheating, whereas a 250,000-cir. mil cable operated at 20,000 volts was found to have excessive burn-outs if the load exceeded 175 amperes per conductor. For a number of years it has been recognized that this reduction in carrying capacity of high-voltage cables was due to the dielectric losses and a number of papers have been presented to the Institute on this subject. A temperature survey of the 20-kv. cable above mentioned showed that nearly all of the burn-outs occurred in a portion of the conduit near the substation, which conduit contained a large number of heavily loaded cables, and in which the temperature was 10 deg. to 15 deg. cent. higher than the rest of the conduit. This portion of the 20-kv. line was replaced over two years ago with cable having a low dielectric loss, since which time no further cable failures have occurred. The method of analysis first suggested by Bang and Louis and later extended by Clark and Shanklin was applied to this particular case, and the carrying capacity for the cable as determined in this manner was found to agree closely with the results of experience. The method was therefore extended so as to determine the law connecting the size of conductor, the dielectric loss and the carrying capacity. Curves and charts are presented showing the carrying capacity of all sizes of three-conductor cables above 100,000 cir. mils and of the entire commerical range of dielectric losses. These results were then compared with the operating records of a transmission system having cables ranging in size from No. 00 A. W. G. to 500,000 cir. mils and with operating voltages of 9, 12, 20 and 22 kv. The results of this comparison appear to indicate that practically all failures on these transmission lines, which were not due to external damage to the lead sheath, were due to the cables being loaded beyond their safe carrying capacity, and that the dielectric losses had not been given proper consideration in determining the carrying capacity of these cables. During the year 1921 the number of cable failures on the 20,000-volt lines was about one per hundred miles. This was about the same as the record on the 9000-volt cables, and this result leads to the conclusion that when the transmission cables are operated at safe loads, in the determination of which dielectric losses have been given proper consideration, the resulting failures are of the order of one per hundred miles per year. This result indicates that very few of the cable failures which have occurred in the past are due to dielectric stresses and that most of the failures occur due to the reduction in dielectric strength caused by the heating of the cables above their critical temperature. Foreign cable manufacturers and operating engineers have apparently appreciated the reduction in carrying capacity due to dielectric losses as they ordinarily limit their maximum conductor temperature to a point well below the critical temperature as determined by these investigations. Their publications also appear to indicate that they fully appreciate that the quality of the insulation is of prime importance and that increased security cannot be obtained by increasing the thickness of insulation without improving the quality. The tests on cables made at the factory indicate that with the thicknesses of insulation that are commonly used in this country, and with the insulation of the first quality, the cable will pass the test required by the Standards of the A. I. E. E. with a wide margin of safety. Dielectric strength tests made on foreign cables and reported in the technical press indicate that the dielectric strength is generally materially above the corresponding figures obtained from tests on cables made in this country by a number of leading manufacturers. Apparently some material reductions in the thicknesses of insulation now used in this country for the transmission voltages can be made if the insulation is of first quality and has a low dielectric loss."
"For the rational and economical design of electric cables, it is important to know the relation between the dimensions of the cable and its breakdown strength. Many different theories have been proposed, in the past, such as the maximum stress theory, the average stress theory, Russell's theory, and Osborne's theory, all of them conflicting. Recently a new theory has been proposed by Fernie that the minimum stress, namely that at the sheath of a cable is the limit. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss Fernie's theory and data, inasmuch as it is so diametrically opposed to some of the earlier theories. It seems quite plausible that insulating materials have a specific breakdown stress. Fernie having discovered, as he states, that the minimum stresses were constant in his tests, feels forced to abandon this idea and attempts to explain his results in terms of a limiting value of stress at the sheath, namely the minimum value. An analysis of his test results, however, does not seem to justify him inasmuch as, although his minimum stresses were much more constant than the maximum stresses, they were by no means constant, and in fact, it could be claimed with almost equal justice that his test results vindicated the average stress theory. Since, however, Fernie's experimental minimum stresses present a certain degree of constancy, this phenomenon (which remains to be proved) is investigated further. It is shown that if it be assumed (1) that the inner layers of insulation may be overstressed without complete rupture of the cable due to the stable equilibrium of the remainder of the insulation, and (2) that insulating materials have a critical breakdown gradient, a direct result of these two hypotheses is that the minimum stress at breakdown is a constant, though it is not in itself the criterion. It may be concluded therefore, that Fernie's experimental data are not sufficient to justify his claim that the minimum stress is a constant, and that if later tests should prove the constancy of minimum stress, this phenomenon could be explained otherwise than by assuming that the minimum stress itself is the limit."
"The effect of composite structure upon the electric properties of dielectrics has been observed and theorized upon by various people, as mentioned in the Introduction. The present paper attempts to show a quantitative expression of power-factor and dielectric loss in terms of the resistivities and specific capacities of the elements of the insulation. It also shows the electrical function of the paper in impregnated paper insulation, and cites experiments which indicate that the electric failure of such insulation is due to ionic motion in the oil; the obvious deduction being that the voltage rating of cables should depend upon the degree to which ionic motion in the oil can be restrained."
"The prevent Institute standards allow a maximum limit of 105 (leg. for fibrous insulation and 125 deg. for mica insulation with an allowance of 150 deg. subject to special guarantees of the manufacturer. In high-voltage machines of large size, the effect of actual copper temperatures higher than 105 deg. may cause softening and disappearance of binding materials, bulging of insulation, and consequent powdering of insulation under periodic pounding of copper on softened material, and, ionization at voids so created. Operating experience of four large size machines demonstrated the above effects to repeatedly take place in machines operating at copper temperatures of 150 deg. cent. None of these effects were noted in machines operating at copper temperatures of 105 deg. cent. or under. Two machines have safely operated for over three years at maximum copper temperatures of 130 deg. cent. Incorrect conclusions may be made as regards the safe temperature limits by judging the performance of machines unless actual copper temperatures are known. Lower ambient temperatures and fractional loads may reduce the operating temperatures 25 to 35 deg. below the assumed limits. Machines designed for high temperatures are less efficient than machines designed for cool temperatures, in one instance the difference being as great as several hundred kilowatts at all loads. The calculation of ventilation of large machines is relatively uncertain; it is of importance to aim at a conservative limit rather than set it too near the danger point. From the standpoint of economy as well as greater safety, it appears that large machines should not be operated at higher copper temperatures than 105 deg. cent. This means that with outside air ventilation seldom exceeding 20 deg., the maximum standard limit with the standard reference of 40 deg. ambient should be 125 deg. equivalent to 85 deg. maximum rise at the copper. In all cases where the room air is close to 40 deg. the maximum copper rise should be limited to 65 deg. Other correlated and important features discussed incidentally in the paper are the typical proportionality of life at different temperatures for fibrous insulation, and the new tentative conventional allowance for reducing to maximum copper temperature, readings taken outside the insulation."
"Interest in the main step-up transformers for the New Queenston generating station of the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario centers largely about their great physical size and the heavy short-circuit currents to be dealt with. Physically they are the largest single-phase transformers in operation today. In spite of the fact that they are for 25-cycle service, to our knowledge even their kv-a. rating is exceeded by only one bank of single-phase transformers now in operation, namely, the 70,000-kv-a., 60-cycle bank at the Colfax Station of the Duquesne Light Company. Figures are given for the weights and dimensions of these transformers and their component parts as well as the performance calculated from test results. The mechanical forces in 25-cycle transformers are inherently high because of the relatively large number of turns necessary to develop the voltage, and because of their relatively low impedance to the flow of short-circuit currents. As the forces depend upon the square of the ampere-turns, it is evident that both the above conditions contribute materially toward increasing the forces. To understand the bracing necessary to withstand the electromagnetic forces developed under short-circuit conditions, it is necessary to understand the nature of these forces as well as their magnitude. The nature and magnitude of the mechanical forces existing between current carrying coils are discussed, (1) for a single turn coil in space, (2) for two single turn coils arranged concentrically and lying in the same plane, (3) for two single turn coils arranged coaxially and lying in parallel planes. The conclusion is reached that as long as primary and secondary coils are adjacent there is no limit on the shape of the coil from the mechanical point of view, as all stresses acting in the plane of the coils are neutralized and there is therefore no force of any magnitude tending to distort the coils. The conclusions reached when single turns are considered hold equally as well for coils or groups of coils, so that in considering the forces in a transformer these fundamentals must always be kept in mind. Thus by interleaving the primary and secondary coils, it is possible to overcome completely any limitations which the mechanical forces with other arrangements of coils may dictate and to choose a coil shape which adapts itself most readily to the solution of the other important problems of the design, namely, insulation and ventilation. The Queenston transformers employ the interleaved type of construction familiarly known as the shell form, with rectangular pancake coils forming the alternating groups of primary and secondary coils. The distribution of the mechanical forces in these transformers is analyzed in detail. The effects of imperfect distribution of turns and of taps are shown to be very undesirable. All of the required voltages could have been obtained with considerably fewer leads and taps but the reduction in the insulation difficulty through the elimination of extra leads would have been accompanied by an increase in the mechanical forces due to unbalancing conditions on tap connections. In these transformers the maximum stress occurs on the first under voltage tap and has a value equal to 136 per cent of the maximum stress with the full winding. Having analyzed the various types of forces to be met with in the design of transformers of this type of construction, it will be interesting to examine the mechanical supports which have been provided in these units. The proper ventilation and insulation of a transformer is equally as important as the adequate mechanical support of the winding. The system of bracing used in these transformers is particularly interesting, in that, in spite of the substantial construction used, the other vital factors of ventilation and insulation have not been impaired in the least."
"Notwithstanding the very large rated capacity of the 45,000-kv-a. generators for the Queenston power house of the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario, their essential construction features are not different from those of much smaller rated generators. The generators are of the vertical shaft type with two guide bearings, and a thrust bearing. The thrust bearing is located above the stator and carries the weight of the complete rotating elements of the generator and water turbine. Each generator is provided with a direct-connected exciter. The flywheel effect required for satisfactory speed regulation of the turbines necessitated the use of auxiliary flywheels mounted on the shaft adjacent to the generator rotor. The rotor is constructed with a number of cast steel wheels which together form the rotor spider for carrying the pole pieces. The pole pieces are made of punchings and are attached to the rotor with three dovetails per pole. The coils are made of copper strip wound on edge. The stator frame is split vertically into three sections to conform with foundry and shipping limitations but the core is built up without being split. The stator windings consist of form-wound, diamond-shaped coils, each slot containing two coil sides. The coils are made of stranded conductor and are insulated with mica tape, which affords more or less flexible insulation. The ends of the coils are braced against the distorting effect of severe short circuits in such a manner as to permit expansion and contraction of the copper without injury to the mica insulation. The armature phase connections are made with bus rings supported from the stator frame, making all connections accessible."
"Temperature measurements constitute a large part of the work of the test department of an electric light and power company in the acceptance and maintenance of the electrical equipment. The methods of measuring temperature which are applicable to this work are discussed in this article. The characteristics of the different kinds of temperature measuring apparatus are brought out by describing a number of actual tests. In the article considerable attention has been given to various forms of thermocouples which have been found very useful in obtaining temperature measurements on cables and in underground conduit systems."
"ULTRA-VIOLET LIGHT An article in the May, 1922, General Electric Review by Llora C. Krueger entitled, “Ultra-Violet Light, Its Uses and Possibilities,” briefly outlines the early history of ultra-violet light. Modern theories treat radiation as a propagation of energy in the form of waves which have been shown to vary continuously in length from twenty to thirty thousand meters, in the wireless region, to the extremely short disturbances involved in X-rays. The visible spectrum covers only a very short range of these waves, extending from 7600 to 3900 Angstrom units. Ultra-violet light is produced in many ways, but few of them are sources of much energy. All artificial light contains more or less ultra-violet radiation and the sun emits a continuous spectrum of great intensity, but wave lengths shorter than 2950 Angstroms are absorbed by the atmosphere to such an extent that very little ultra-violet light reaches the surface of the earth."
"THE Annual Convention at Niagara Falls this year gives promise of being an outstanding success among the many notable conventions of the Institute. Centrally located between the East and Middle West, and served with ample transportation facilities, it is easily accessible to a large body of the membership both in the United States and in Canada. The location is also one of interest to all Americans and Canadians, being one of the famous scenic resorts of the world, but it holds a particular lure for the electrical engineer on account of the wonderful object lesson in the utilization of water power which it presents. An opportunity to visit and inspect the vast industrial developments which are operated by the power of Niagara Falls should prove an inspiration to every member of the electrical engineering profession to which these developments owe their inception."
"The Eleventh Annual Pacific coast convention will be held in Vancouver, B. C., August 8 to 11, 1922, with headquarters at the Hotel Vancouver. This will be the fourth general meeting of the Institute this year, in accordance with the plan adopted by the Board of Directors last August of holding four general meetings each year."
"The Annual Report of the Board of Directors of the A. I. E. E. was presented at the Annual Business Meeting of the Institute held in New York, Friday afternoon, May 19, 1922."
"Frank B. Jewett has been elected president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the year beginning August 1, 1922, as announced in the report of the Committee of Tellers published elsewhere in this issue. Dr. Jewett, although just reaching the prime of life, has long since been recognized both at home and abroad as one of the foremost telephone engineers of our time."
"During the early months of our participation in the World War, there were many engineers and others of known education, ability, and experience who waived the opportunity to obtain commissions and enlisted in the engineer regiments that were being recruited for immediate service in France. Thus it happened that in many of these regiments a large proportion of the rank and file were graduates of colleges or technical schools, with all the qualifications requisite for engineer officers. In the event of a future emergency such men by reason of their professional accomplishments combined with their military experience would be of inestimable value as engineer officers, and while it is true that they would come forward in time of need, even though not enrolled in the Reserve Corps, their value nevertheless would be greatly enhanced should they accept commissions now, for by this means they would keep in touch with military developments."
"The Committee on Procedure of American engineering council has approved the following appointments by President Mortimer E. Cooley to the Employment Committee: E. S. Carman, Cleveland, chairman; W. J. Fisher, York, Pa.; W. E. Rolfe, St. Louis; Boyd Fisher, Boston; Clayton Pike, Philadelphia."
"The Personnel research federation organized a year ago under the auspices of the Engineering Foundation and the National Research Council to coordinate the efforts of the 250 scientific, engineering, labor, management and educational bodies which are studying personnel problems in the United States today, reports a year full of progress. The primary object of the organization, to act as a clearing-house of information for the various agencies carrying on investigations in personnel work, and to bring these agencies together for interchange of ideas, so that they might be of mutual benefit to one another, and avoid duplication of effort, was greatly furthered by a survey of the existing agencies, describing their scope, methods and activities, made by J. David Thompson, and issued as a bulletin of the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics."
"E. H. Flath has left the Western Electric Co., New York, and will teach in the Georgia School of Technology, Atlanta."
"Herbert Stanley Miller, of Elizabeth, N. J., died in a hospital in Elizabeth on May 7, 1922, following an operation for appendicitis. Mr. Miller was born in Jersey City, December 31, 1869, his family moving to Elizabeth while he was still an infant. He was graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1892, and the next year took a position with the Diehl Manufacturing Company of Elizabeth, becoming secretary-treasurer when that firm was incorporated in 1896. He remained with the Diehl firm, engaged in engineering design and general construction work, until 1914, in which year he became affiliated with the Lake Torpedo Boat Company. Soon becoming president of this company, he held this office until the time of his death. Mr. Miller joined the Institute in 1899. He belonged also to the Technology Club and the Republican Club of New York, and the Elizabeth and Suburban Clubs of Elizabeth."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Baltimore. — April 21, 1922, Engineers Club. Subjects: “Radio Telephony and Broadcasting” by Mr. L. W. Chubb, of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company; and “High-Power Transoceanic Radio Telegraphy” by Mr. E. F. W. Alexanderson, of the Radio Corporation of America. Attendance 225."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies, and not to the A. I. E. E. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"In electric circuits of all sorts, power is transmitted principally by metallic conductors. In order to control the flow of power, or to convert it from one form to another, the constants of the circuits are varied. The connections of the metallic conductors may be altered, for this purpose; but on high potentials this operation is attended with difficulty. The rapidity and ease of control are also limited. For this reason there has been a tendency, in recent years, toward the increased use of control devices employing non-metallic conduction and these are now being rapidly brought to the fore. As examples we have the very versatile thermionic tube and the mercury as rectifier. The former has received particular attention of late. Devices employing conduction by gaseous ions have been handicaped in this general evolution by three main disabilities: the first time the difficulty of placing the discharge where wanted, the second, the tendency of the working gas to disappear, and the third, decidedly erratic action. These disabilities have recently been to a large extent removed by the advent of a principle called the “short path principle”, by which discharge can be prevented except where wanted. The has also led to long life, for by placing the discharge in proximity only to certain porous materials, gaseous clean-up and disintegration are both prevented. With this change, uniformity of action also appears. By utilizing this principle, gaseous conduction devices may be designed, for example, as rectifiers. Two examples are described, the first obtaining unilateral characteristics by the use of a magnetic field, and the second by the use of a space charge. The present models, as described are capable of handling only small amounts of power; but there is no inherent limitation in this direction. The usual conditions of cost, reliability, life and so on will determine development for higher powers. It is impossible to predict at present the particular portions of the electrical field in which this device in its various forms will find a use. The authors believe, however, that engineers will find its possibilities of interest."
"IN order to determine what difference exists between ambient and room temperatures, as defined by the A. I. E. E. Standards, a test was made in the electrical laboratories of the Johns Hopkins University. A generator was operated at constant load for a period of seven and one-half hours and the ambient and room temperatures were measured during the run, as described below."
"THE principle employed in the A. I. E. E. Standards for determining the limiting temperature rises as a basis for rating is the so-called hottest-spot principle. The hottest-spot temperature is the bench mark or original point of reference and the limiting observable temperature is derived from it by subtracting a temperature that represents the difference between this temperature and the highest temperature that it is possible to measure by commercial methods. This difference is known in the A. I. E. E. Standards, as the “conventional allowance.”"
"The object of this article is to present a composite engineering view of one of the world's oldest industries, for the purpose of directing the attention of the electrical engineer toward some of the more urgent requirements of this industry, which, being primarily electrical, he in particular is peculiarly able to furnish. The article outlines engineering principles applied in the art of leather making, while views, taken in modern tanneries, show typical manufacturing processes in the two main divisions of the industry. To facilitate visualizing engineering progress in the art, a brief description of manufacturing processes is included as a feature of the treatise. Some recent developments, in the form of mechanical-electrical units, now coming into use, are also illustrated and described; while the article concludes with a table of motor horse power requirements for the individual machine operations performed in making leather. The authors acknowledge having been assisted in preparing the manuscript with statistics and photographs made available through the courtesy of Tanners Council, New York City, General Electric Company, and the First National Bank of Boston, Mass."
"The Bureau of Standards has a very complete laboratory for testing dry cells under all conditions encountered in service. The cells are discharged at various rates and for different periods of time and during test are subjected to a wide range of temperature, made possible by the installation of a special refrigerating plant and heating oven. The switches which govern the periods of discharge and recuperation for the batteries are controlled by a master relay operated by a clock. Heretofore only one clock has been employed and no difficulty has been experienced. However, as the apparatus has been used continuously for 2½ years, it was evident that it would soon be necessary to stop the clock for cleaning and adjustment. When the equipment was installed, it was expected that this could be done whenever desirable, but the volume of work has been so great that it has been found necessary to operate the testing plant continuously. Therefore, a second clock has been installed with an automatic device which will throw over the control from one clock to the other in the event of stoppage of either. This places the Bureau's equipment on a very reliable plane, in line with similar apparatus used by the leading manufacturers."
"W. W. Lewis: In the paper by Messrs. Conwell and Evans it is interesting to note that the only part which gives actual data, that is, Section 3, shows that the Pertersen coil functioned satisfactorily in the manner that it was intended to function, that is, as an arc suppressor. The conditions under which the arc was made were not those usually existing in practise. In the tests an are was made between switch blades with a comparatively small separation, say a couple of inches or so. Under these conditions the residual current even though small may be enough to maintain an arc. In practise the arc is usually over an insulator with 10 or 12 in. arcing distance and considerable current is required to maintain such an arc even without the neutral reactor."
"J. L. Burnham: I would like to discuss the paper in the reverse order from which it is given. To show the relation of Mr. Shand's paper to previous discussions on this subject, a brief review of the bibliography he has appended seems desirable. In 1910 Messrs. Lamme and Newbury presented a paper on the use of commutating poles in synchronous converters in which they implied doubt of their usefulness. Their reasons, broadly stated, were:"
"J. H. Morecroft: There is only one point on which I can add anything and that is on the use of the vacuum tube as a voltage rectifier. It is an experimental instrument not used very much as yet by electrical engineers, but as Dr. Hull told us some time ago, it will be used by every engineer very soon. There are certain cases where voltages are to be measured where it is impossible to get the measurement without the use of the vacuum tube."
"M. E. Skinner: I do not understand from the paper that actual transformers or even reactors have been constructed in which the inherent but rather disturbing effects of leads, connections and taps, space occupied by the conductors themselves, and of non-uniform inductance per turn, have been overcome. The paper appears to crystallize several ideas as to how these inherent difficulties may be overcome, but the structures illustrated are still a long way from anything employed at the present time in power or distribution transformer construction. It is interesting to note that the solution chosen for the problem of taps is their complete elimination. This is undoubtedly the most effective as well as the easiest way out. The fact that it has been found advisable to reinforce the insulation of the end turns of so simple a winding as that employed in an air core reactor, illustrates the difficulty of applying the principle upon which Mr. Weed's paper is based to commercial apparatus."
"M. R. Hanna: Mr. Luke has shown the difficulty of calculating accurately the temperature of the various parts of a motor when operating on an intermittent duty cycle. However I would like to point out that it is possible to obtain quite satisfactory results without any great difficulty by considering larger sections of the motor. In the case of inclosed or slightly ventilated motors we can consider the motor as a whole and in the case of well-ventilated motors we may consider the armature as a whole and each of the field windings as separate units."
"Lawrence E. Widmark: We have lately been presented with two mechanical devices to replace the Behrend-Heyland Circle Diagram, one from Cornell University and the other one from Yale, and I would like to say a few words in defence of the old diagram."
"E. W. Davis: Many learned and excellent papers have been presented before this society and other physical or technical societies, on the subject of skin effect in conductors carrying alternating currents. These papers have not, however, been interpreted for the average engineer to understand."
"V. Karapetoff: Mr. Kostko deserves much credit for having consistently followed what may be called a graphico-analytical method of solution of the single-phase induction motor, without the use of complex quantities. He is somewhat in the position of an arctic explorer who went to verify indefinite rumors about a favorable passage, and proved concisely that there was none. Someone had to do it, but few will appreciate the real value of a contribution consisting of a negative result. To me Mr. Kostko has proved only that by the method which he adopted no particularly useful results can be obtained either for a designer, an operating man, an experimenter, or a theoretical investigator. In order to use his results intelligently, one has to study carefully about twelve columns of weary mathematics and several complicated geometric figures. And when one finally arrives at the end, one finds the familiar old fact that the no-load and short-circuit tests alone do not determine the circular locus. It is necessary to use approximate relationships and empirical coefficients as given in his paper.1 The limits of validity of these assumptions, or the magnitude of error committed, would be difficult to estimate, especially with a new motor of unusual constants."
"The fundamental principles of the process in its simplest form are set forth. It is shown why the Cottrell process during recent years has in a large measure supplanted the bag-house and dust chamber in treating smelter gases. The commonly accepted theory concerning the manner in which the dust particles is charged and precipitated is given. It is pointed out that the thing most important to the operating man is how the particles may be enabled to give up their charge to the electrodes under all conditions, rather than the manner in which they receive it. The various types of treaters in common use are described and discussed. The advantages of straight line treaters over those in which the gases are by-passed are emphasized. It is shown that the gas is ionized much more efficiently for a given power consumption and the construction simplified and reduced by arranging the electrodes in the flue so that their electric fields are in series with each other. It is shown that this is accomplished by causing the gas to flow parallel to the electrostatic lines instead of at right angles to them, as in all other types. The factors of lead and copper metallurgy are given which control the amount of sulphuric acid and water vapor in the gases. It is also pointed out that these things are a measure of the successful operation when treating smelter gases. The physical rather than the chemical structure of the dust in suspension is shown to be the all-important matter. Several theories are given as to why flue dust is so much easier precipitated than fume. A number of photo-micrographs are given to illustrate the difference in physical structure between fume and dust. Two methods are featured of obtaining sufficient conductivity in a dry precipitated coating to permit the electric charge to leak through it to the electrode. The theory of selective absorption is advanced as an explanation of how aqueous vapor added to the gas stream functions in this respect. The method of adding very finely atomized sulphuric acid is shown to be the most practical, it not having certain disadvantages of the water and its higher boiling point permitting a wider field of application. Its action is shown to be due to the fine acid particles being precipitated with the dust particles thereby imparting conductive film to the particles by diffusion. The amount of free sulphuric acid in grams per 1000 cu. ft. of gas which permits a good precipitation on gas without conditioning is given from tests made on a large installation. The theory of back ionization and phenomena of discontinuous dielectric are discussed. Electrical matters are shown to be secondary to treater design and to the conditioning gas. All that can be expected of electrical equipment is to stress the space between electrodes to the economical limit. Local conditions must govern choice of electrical equipment. The tendency to regard electrical phenomena, such as surging which as a rule accompanies poor precipitation as causes rather than effects, is cited. Effects of conditioning gas in reducing surges is shown. Internal reactance in transformer best suited to precipitation work is discussed, also possibility of exceeding the practical limit and wasting power on treatable gas by carrying voltage up to the point of disruption; necessity of knowing electrical values in the treater, and these are best obtained with milliammeter and electrostatic voltmeter; finally, the subject of proportioning the plant investment between electrical equipment and treater is covered."
"IT is a well known fact that the Behrend-Heyland circle diagram for the “picturization” of the characteristics of the induction motor among all its advantages has a great draw-back, viz: its “space efficiency,” if I may say so, being very low. We all know that the most important part of the diagram is confined to a small fraction of the diagram sheet, and that precision and convenience are very much hampered by this fact."
"In studying the subject of dielectric loss in electric cables the author has become convinced that the moisture content of the dielectric is the dominant factor determining the a-c. resistance. Evershead's explanation of the action of moisture in a fibrous dielectric seems plausible but leads to the conclusion that moisture causes a decrease of a-c. resistance with increasing voltage, whereas the experience of the author is that with a fairly well dried dielectric a-c. resistance is independent of voltage, and that decreasing the moisture content still further gives higher and higher a-c. resistance, with no limit in sight. It seems obvious, therefore, that Evershead has not fully covered the subject. In order to get a picture of the action of moisture in a dielectric field the author has assumed a simply hypothetical case and tried to follow it to its logical conclusions. He assumed a pure dielectric of a homogeneous and plastic nature between parallel electrodes and subject to electric stress. He then mentally placed a very small globule of conducting moisture in the dielectric and watched the action. Under constant potential stress the moisture elongated into a thread-like filament until it bridged the dielectric. But under alternating stress the moisture globule, if sufficiently small stretched out only a short distance and then no further, no matter how high the voltage. This showed how the a-c. resistance could be independent of the voltage and yet depend upon moisture. Following up the analysis the author was surprised to find that such a dielectric, containing particles of moisture would show absorption and residual charge and many other characteristics of actual insulation. He also found that certain unusual test data, obtained while testing cables, could be explained as due to a breaking up of the moisture filaments by evaporation. The author does not claim that the paper that follows meets the complexity of actual insulation, but rather that it adds to our conception of the importance of moisture in its effect upon a dielectric field."
"The water power development at Queenston, Ontario, which made use of the combined head of Niagara Falls and the Niagara River Rapids below the Falls, involved the design and construction of, what up to the present time are the largest hydroelectric generators built. Owing to the size limits met in these generators certain interesting design problems were encountered. The more important of these problems dealt with the design of (1) the armature winding, (2) the upper bearing bracket and (3) the rotating spider. The solution of these problems is briefly discussed and a tabulation of major dimensions and, weights of the generators is given."
"The consideration of the extreme care necessary in preparing samples of a dielectric for test for electrical properties led to the investigation of the effect of air spaces, purposely formed of definite thickness and location, upon the power factor. This work in a way is an extension of some work done by Clark and Shanklin and Shanklin and Matson several years ago on air spaces in high voltage cables and wrapped armature coils. In their investigation the effect of assumed air spaces of indefinite thickness, extent, pressure and location was shown by plotting effective resistance from the formula $R = {E^{2} \\over W}$ against potential gradient. A characteristic curve was obtained, a sharp inflection point in the curve being interpreted as indicating the starting point of corona. In the work by the writer, various materials were investigated both with air spaces excluded as much as possible, and with air spaces of definite thickness, extent, and location at atmospheric pressure. The results were plotted showing variation of power factor with potential gradient. A definite increase in power factor with potential gradient indicated the starting of corona. The thicker air space with a given thickness of dielectric showed the more abrupt change in power factor, and this took place at a lower potential gradient. By plotting power factor against voltage, a maximum was shown indicating that a saturation of ionization was approached which resulted in a decrease in power factor. By plotting effective resistance assuming the resistance to be in series with the dielectric and to be given by the formula $R = {W \\over I^{2}}$ a very definite change in R as well as in power factor indicated the beginning of corona. The curve obtained in this way did not possess superior advantages over the plot for power factor for indicating corona and had the disadvantage that the points were somewhat scattered on the upper range of potential gradient. The results of the investigation show that: 1. It is extremely difficult to exclude air spaces from a dielectric so that it does not result in corona formation. Corona is shown by a more or less abrupt change in power factor with potential gradient. 2. The abruptness of the change in power factor with potential gradient depends upon the thickness of the air space, the thicker the air space the more abrupt the change. 3. The thicker the air space for any given thickness of dielectric the lower the potential gradient to produce corona. 4. The potential gradient to produce corona not only depends upon the thickness of the air space but also upon the extent of the air space as shown by observations on different areas of air space of the same thickness. 5. A maximum of power factor is reached with potential gradient indicating that saturation of ionization is approached after which the value of power factor decreases with potential gradient."
"It is a fact well known to lighting men that the amount of illumination obtained from lighting equipment decreases gradually but surely with length of service, due to dust and dirt which accumulate on the surfaces of the lamp and the reflector. A few months ago an investigation was undertaken to classify the kinds of dirt which may be expected to accumulate on the lamps in representative industries and to determine just how much the light output of lamps may be increased by removing these dirts."
"The 11th Pacific Coast Convention of the A. I. E. E., held in Vancouver, B. C., August 8–11, was an entire success in regard to attendance, technical program and entertainment features. The total registration at the Convention was 235, including ladies. The retiring president, William McClellan, presided."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, August 8, 1922."
"For several months the Standards Committee and the Directors of the A. I. E. E. have had under consideration the formulation of a plan of organization and procedure under which the Committee could function to better advantage. The matter was again considered at the meeting of the Board of Directors held June 29, 1922, and the following extract from the minutes of the meeting indicates the action that was taken:"
"During the latter part of July, President William McClellan started from New York on a trip to the Pacific Coast for the purpose of visiting several of the Institute Sections, and in particular to attend the Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute which was held in Vancouver, August 8–11."
"M. L. Harned, formerly Research Engineer with the Union Gas & Electric Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, is now Engineer with Stewart & Company, Cincinnati, Ohio."
"Frank W. Frueauff, junior member of the firm of Henry L. Doherty and vice-president of the Cities Service Company, died suddenly on Monday, July 31, at his home in New York City. He was one of the outstanding figures in the electric light and power world."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Cleveland. — May 23, 1922, Electrical League Rooms. Annual Dinner and election of officers as follows: Chairman, L. D. Bale; Secretary-Treasurer, Chester L. Dows; Executive Committee, R. P. Bunyan, F. L. Sessions, Austin M. Lloyd. The meeting was addressed by President McClellan of the A. I. E. E., who outlined the aims and functions of the Institute in a very entertaining manner. He laid particular stress on the importance of discussion of papers at Section meetings. Attendance 50."
"By Erich Hausmann, Alfred N. Goldsmith, L. A. Hazeltine, J. V. L. Hogan, and J. H. Morecroft. New York, D. Van Nostrand Company, 1922, 190 pages, 4½ × 7 in., cloth. $1.50 net."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records Will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IT was discovered, in the early eighties, that an ordinary d-c. series conduction motor with a laminated magnetic circuit would operate on alternating current. In those days d-c. series motors usually had few armature and many field ampere-turns and were not neutralized, with the result that, when operated on alternating current, their power factor was very low. Some of the difficulties of the situation were probably first pointed out by G. Kapp, in 1888 or thereabouts. In 1890 Eickemeyer addressed himself to the single-phase series motor and made a commercial machine of it by neutralizing the armature reaction and showing that, contrary to the then prevailing d-c. practise, the armature ampere-turns should be greatly in excess, in fact a multiple of, the motor field producing ampereturns. He also pointed out that these machines were better suited for operation on low than on high periodicities and that they should be built with small air gaps. Beginning about the year 1893, A. G. Helios of Cologne, Germany, built a large number of neutralized single-phase series motors for general stationary work. Ganz & Co. of Budapest, Hungary, also made many single-phase series motors, beginning about 1889, but do not appear to have employed neutralizing windings. The machines built by these European firms were mostly small, seldom exceeding 20 B. h. p. The reason why the single-phase series motor was first used commercially in Europe, is probably to be found in the fact that in the early 90's the periodicities mostly employed in this country were about twice as high as those in vogue in Europe. The advent of the commutatorless polyphase motor had no doubt much to do with the almost complete abandonment of the single-phase series motor somewhere along the year 1896."
"This paper is intended to show the lines along which the manufacturers of electrical apparatus in Great Britain are dealing with their insulation problems. Particulars are given of the facilities that have been established for insulation research, and the more important developments in insulating materials and processes employed in the various classes of electrical apparatus are discussed with special reference to thermal characteristics and consideration. The opinions of British electrical engineers upon certain aspects of temperature rating of machinery as affected by insulation are considered."
"THE graphical method or circle diagram is undoubtedly the one most frequently employed in deriving speed-torque curves of induction motors from the design constants of the motor or from running and locked tests readings. In numerous papers and text books on induction motors are described quite a variety of circle diagrams, which have been developed for this purpose, each introducing more or less refined methods into the process. Steinmetz' symbolic method lends itself readily to an analysis of the induction motor phenomena and formulas have been derived by him by means of which the complete performance can be calculated."
"Laboratory tests, as well as the condition of machines which have been running a number of years, show that the temperatures that can be withstood without damage to the insulating materials are considerably higher than those prescribed by international rules. The present values have probably been chosen so as to guard against too high temperatures caused by defective construction of certain parts of the machines. If exploring coils are placed suitably and with care at the points where overheating is most likely to occur, the value of the permissible temperature, as recorded by the coils, should be 10 to 20 per cent higher than the rules permit, in order fully to utilize the materials of construction. Windings for over 5000 volts should not contain any air pockets."
"In the February 1921 issue of the Journal, Mr. Philip Torchio presented a paper on “Permissible Operating Temperatures of Impregnated Paper Insulation in which Dielectric Stress is Low.”"
"During the past two years the Institute has to an increasing extent served as a clearing house for information dealing with technical advances in telegraph, telephone and radio engineering, one direct result of which is the rapidly growing number of communication engineers applying for membership in the Institute."
"To the Board of Directors: The following report for the year summarizes briefly the activity of the committee, a reference to articles dealing with new or essential instruments and measurements, and a brief description of new apparatus for electrical measurements that may have been designed and developed during the past twelve months."
"The Committee herewith submits its report in two sections — first, activities of the Committee, and second, progress in the art. Activities of the Committee The Committee was appointed about the middle of October. Early in November, a “correspondence meeting” was held, by which the views of the Committee were obtained on subjects which appeared important to the Chairman. This was followed by a meeting at the Association's headquarters. At this time, the plans for the year were finally agreed upon and arrangements made for carrying them out."
"To the Board of Directors: During the past year the Mines Committee has arranged for two combined meetings of local sections of the A. I. E. E. and the A. I. M. & M. E. One of these meetings was held in Pittsburgh on April 18th, at which time a paper was presented by Mr. J. C. Damon of the West Penn Power Company under the title of “The Use of Central Station Power in Coal Mines.” A number of Bureau of Mines officials were present and the papers brought forth a lively discussion among coal operators and central station men present."
"The activities of your Committee have been somewhat affected due to the sudden and serious illness of the Chairman, Mr. Arthur Parker. However, we are pleased to report his gradual return to health."
"Reversing Mill Drive Equipment At present, economic conditions are such that an expansion of steel mills to produce a greater tonnage of steel is not important, and reversing mill electrification consists mainly in revamping present plants. This is either done by installing an electric reversing mill equipment in place of a steam engine, or it may be that the mill itself is obsolete, and the mill with its drive is replaced with electric drive and a new mill. This is usually done in order to replace worn out machinery, or to obtain advantage of lower cost of production. In the last two years, considerable attention has been given to the cost of producing steel and the reversing mill drive has received as much attention as any other type of mill. Considerable cost data are being published from time to time on electrically driven mills, so that it is a simple matter for those who are considering the installation of an electric reversing equipment to determine their cost with a very great degree of accuracy. This is something that has not been available heretofore, due to the difficulty in actually determining the amount of steam an engine takes. Several reversing engine installations have recently been made on the basis of obtaining some very substantial improvements in economy, but no results have been published from their installations, so that it is only natural to infer that the results which they had anticipated have not materialized."
"Alfred Still: In order to avoid the confusion of ideas which is likely to arise when the various components of the total flux are represented as occupying the same portion of the iron core, the vector diagram for a loaded transformer may be drawn as in Fig. 1."
"V. E. Thelin: The manually operated substations now in operation on railway systems in large cities offer a wonderful field for the use of automatic equipment, due to the fact that the line losses can be reduced considerably, schedule speeds increased, and in many cases sufficient copper can be taken down to pay for the cost of the land and new buildings as well as that of moving the machines. If the manually operated substations, which have a capacity of from 4000 to 20,000 kw., are redistributed into any number of single-unit or, at the most, two-unit automatically controlled substations, the service rendered by same no doubt will be far superior to that now obtained in the manually operated substations, due to the fact that each operation in the automatic substation has been worked out beforehand and the entire sequence is carried through without any hesitancy or error such as frequently happens to the operator in manually controlled stations. In the large manually operated substations with many units it is necessary to clear the board of practically all the feeder sections before the first rotary can be connected to the bus, whereas a single-unit automatic substation will have a maximum of say from five to eight feeders, and there should be no difficulty experienced in the station picking up all the sections simultaneously. It is possible, through the use of special devices which I have in mind, to isolate each substation district from all other districts, and by using automatic reclosing circuit breakers service can be restored quickly, whereas if all substations were tied together through bus lines the first station to be connected to the system would open up an overload through excess of load fed from the surrounding substation districts through the bus lines."
"W. J. Foster: I agree closely with Mr. Newbury's conclusions and with his recommendations regarding the method of rating machines by temperature rise and also the figure that he has mentioned as the ultimate temperature rise of Class B insulation in the armature windings."
"F. C. Caldwell: The lack of understanding on the part of the public of the whole problem of lighting was well brought out by Mr. Harrison's paper. One point needs a little more emphasis and that is the erroneous idea that glare is solely a function of brightness. Mr. Harrison has clearly demonstrated that the glare produced by excessive quantity of light is more serious than that produced by too great brightness. This is just one example of the general misapprehension of these simple laws on the part of even intelligent people."
"E. B. Meyer: As already stated by one of the writers, the general opinion in the past seemed to be that when the voltage of a circuit was increased the only requirements so far as safe operation was concerned, was to add more insulation to the cable. Recent experience and research has developed the fact that the quality of the insulation and of the compounds used for impregnation have an important bearing on the safe operation of underground cables."
"James R. Craighead: There are in addition to those outlined in this paper, several other methods of making phase angle correction in current transformers. The simplest is the use of a non-inductive shunt placed across the primary winding or across the secondary winding, which subtracts a certain amount of current either from the primary or the secondary side of the transformer. This current is in a phase position which is such that it tends to restore the remainder of the secondary current to the phase position of the primary current, and by so doing can diminish to some extent the usual leading (or positive) phase angle of the current transformer. Inductive reactance may be substituted for the non-inductive shunt where the phase angle is negative."
"E. R. Stauffacher: The nomenclature and classification of various relays and the acceptance of this nomenclature by the Standards Committee of the A. I. E. E. is a distinct step forward. Relays are assuming more and more importance in their application to central station systems, not only where the load is largely concentrated, but where it is spread over a large territory covering, for example, one-half of a large state. In both cases it is quite necessary that the defective section of such a system be localized, even though in some cases it may take a couple of days for a patrolman to go over the line which is in trouble. The big job is to drop the defective section as soon as possible before it upsets the remainder of the system."
"B. G. Jamieson: I would like to make an announcement which I was commissioned to make by the Subcommittee of the A. I. E. E. on oil circuit breakers. We have as a heritage a definition of duty cycle, which is fundamental in determining the rating of oil circuit breakers. That duty cycle, as defined by Hewlett, Burnham, Mahoney in a paper written about four years ago, represents the sumtotal of available literature on the subject. The adoption by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers of a standard definition is based on that paper."
"III. Differential Power Schemes. The differential current schemes just described, though usually simple in equipment and installation are subject in some cases to disdavantage in that the line in trouble does not carry the greater current. Differential power protective schemes for parallel lines, however, are discriminating in their action in all cases and can be relied upon when the effectiveness of the simpler schemes may be doubtful."
"C. E. Skinner: It is rather curious that this process, developed primarily to abate a nuisance should become so valuable economically. I have been familiar with some attempts in the Pittsburgh district to abate the smoke nuisance by the Mellen Institute of Industrial Research. They made a smoke survey of Pittsburgh, and a study of this survey shows how desirable it is to abate this nuisance in the Pittsburgh district. However, the values recovered are not such as to justify the cost from the commercial standpoint, and consequently very little has been done."
"W. A. Hillebrand: I will confine my discussion principally to the paper by Messrs. Farr and Philpott. The energy and care with which they prosecuted this research is highly commendable, and the results are extremely interesting. On the other hand it is characteristic of a great deal of such work that an attempt is made to draw general conclusions from incomplete data. For example, the insulators on which they made their tests were evidently of very poor material."
"R. J. C. Wood: There is a very interesting thing in Table 3. In the early years we find that the No. 1 disk is the one which is failing to the greater extent, in 1913, 1914, 1915, 1916; and then in 1917 No. 7, which is the one nearest the point of support, usurps first place and keeps approximately that position, so that on the whole in these latter years it is the one nearest the point of support which shows the greatest number of failures. Now we all know that in the years 1913, 1914, the kind of insulator we were getting was very different from the insulators we get today; and that raised the question in my mind as to whether those early failures may not have been due to one cause — perhaps soft, porous porcelain, which was to be had in plenty; and the failures of the later years, when it is to be presumed that most of that poor stuff had been weeded out, have been caused by prolonged mechanical vibration."
"C. E. Skinner: Porcelain is essentially in effect a conglomerate of spar, flint and kaolin. Each individual piece has its own personal history. A very large number of factors inevitably enter in, to affect it for good or ill in its making. Much can be done by the ceramist and by the porcelain factory to insure uniformity, but the day will never dawn when lots of porcelain insulators can be tested by sample as we test steel and many other materials. We must always test each piece to see that that piece does not have accidental defects and weaknesses that would unfit it for its intended service. What is required is a test that will search out such defects and weaknesses and which will leave the piece uninjured by the test itself. It is up to the porcelain manufacturer to so operate his plant that he secures the maximum of uniformity, and the test should eliminate all pieces which fall below an agreed standard. The agreed standard should be that which gives satisfactory service under the prescribed conditions. As no test can duplicate service conditions — in fact probably no series of tests can duplicate service conditions — the combined experience of manufacturing, testing and service will finally show what balance should be struck between severity of test and service. We can so test that we destroy every insulator, then we have none for service. The most careful manufacturer cannot hope to so fabricate that no test is required, so there must be an economic balance between test and service. We all welcome any test that will help to show us whether design and material are right, and any test that will eliminate insulators which would not give service."
"J. B. Fisken: One thought occurred to me when I read the paper and that is that we now have connection over the Idaho-Montana line through to Seattle, Tacoma, and I don't know just how far south, with a break between Tacoma and Portland, and some breaks in Oregon; and I don't think it takes any very great imagination to visualize the time when our plants in Eastern Washington will run in synchronism with plants on the Colorado River. It will not in any sense be transmission from Eastern Washington to Southern California, but it will be simply an interchange of current, our plants furnishing the load as required on the northern end and meeting the western Washington plants, the Oregon plants and so forth."
"W. A. Hillebrand: Concerning the experiments on the disconnector switch, with regard to characteristic flash-over and the opening distance and clearance from the ground necessary to prevent the arc from shooting across the gap. Was any effort made to control the direction of flash-over by means of screens or guards which would reduce the gradient between the blade and the clip on the opposite side?"
"W. A. Hillebrand: A rather startling instance of an oscillation such as Mr. Doherty has just described, came within my observation some three years ago. There was a two-pull electro magnet for a Paulson high-frequency arc converter, the magnet weighing approximately 30 tons, and they had only 5-kilowatts of arc converters at the station. Now the magnet itself was perhaps the most powerful that was ever delivered, and it was excited by a 250-kw., 500-volt d-c. generator, direct connected to a 2400-volt induction motor. Now what happened was that the power went off. The energy stored in the magnetic field was sufficient to stop the motor-generator set, reversing it. This reversal of rotation of the motor generator demagnetized the magnet, magnetizing it in the opposite direction, and again brought the set to rest. That is, there was a highly damped oscillation of very low frequency lasting for a cycle and a half. We ran saturation curves under various conditions, and finally after the last run the current was cut off, and I think some three or four minutes after the machine was completely disconnected, while we were stripping it, we still got an arc, showing the current was still flowing. That is, it took several minutes, due to the very slow decay before the current came to zero."
"R. J. C. Wood: Isn't the picture as received shown at Fig. 8 (d). I think that is actually what the receiving end gets over the wire and any exercise of imagination, as Mr. Hillebrand says, refers to (f). It would seem to me that these boundaries are determined by the co-ordinates of points along them, all around the boundary. That being so you then get these contour lines as shown on Fig. 8(e). They are filled in with the particular shade according to one of the letters in the code corresponding to that boundary. You then get the Fig. 8 (e) as the final result received at the receiving end. The illustrator knows that nobody looks exactly like (d) and he makes it look a little better, like (8-f). Telephotography means to a photographer taking very far distance scenes with a lens of long focus. Is this term telephotography standard in this sense of transmitting photographs to a distance by wire? The term is already fairly well assigned to the photographic science, and it would seem to me that some such title as photo-transmission or an equivalent would describe the process better than telephotography."
"R. J. C. Wood: Again we have an illustration of how, in different parts of the world, and at the same time, the same ideas arise simultaneously. The curves shown in this paper (Dwight) are — I think if you turn the diagram right over, or the wrong way up, according to who is talking about it, that it will be found to be very similar, if not identical with the curves to be shown in the paper by Mr. Holladay. That paper shows a diagram which represents the exact hyperbolic equations."
"Quartz plates properly cut from quartz crystal liberate an electric charge when subjected to pressure. A stack of these plates are placed in a small steel container in the form of a plug which is screwed into the breach block of a gun."
"OVERLOAD is generally regarded by users of electrical machinery as a convenience. Very few consider the meaning of a rating containing overload allowances (double rating) from the point of view of the comparability of different makes of machines and of the effects that overload allowances may have on the duration of the insulation of the machine. The object of this paper is to show, in an elementary way, the process of heating going on in electrical machines and to consider what is the fundamental difference between single rating (no overload allowed) and double rating (overloads allowed) and to supply a clear and sound basis for an eventual discussion. I shall here only refer to continuous rating and the word machine will indicate generators, motors, converters and transformers cooled by natural ventilation."
"By the Lighting and Illumination Committee NEW YORK STATE BOOSTS HIGHWAY LIGHTING A bill has recently been passed by New York State which allows the counties of the State to appropriate money for the illumination of highways. This bill is an important and logical step toward providing means of financing highway illumination, placing authority in the hands of the board of supervisors of any county to provide for lighting public highways, or portions thereof, or bridges, located in such county outside of cities and villages. The board must submit proposals to the State Commissioner of Highways when it is desired to provide lighting for some highway or bridge. The Commissioner either approves the proposals or suggests such modification as he sees fit, returning them to the board for final adoption. The expenses for installing and maintaining the lighting system is provided and appropriated in the same manner as other county expenses."
"WHILE the physical phenomena in connection with the electrical rupture of gaseous insulators have been thoroughly investigated by J. J. Thomson, J. Stark, J. Townsend, J. B. Whitehead, F. W. Peek, Jr., and many others, the nature of the breakdown in solid and liquid insulating materials has up till now remained in complete obscurity. According to the prevailing opinion the rupture takes place at the moment when the density of the electrical field exceeds a certain limit at any point in the insulator. This is called the electrical strength of the material and is based on a reasoning analogous to that which gave rise to the theory of mechanical resistance against a breakdown."
"Plans are well under way for the coming conventions. At the Midwinter which will be held in New York, February 14, 15, 16 and 17, some very interesting technical papers will be presented supplemented by an evening session at which the Chicago Section has been invited to listen and to discuss papers through the use of telephone connections and the loud speakers."
"As provided in Section 19 of the Institute By-Laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1923, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than twenty-five members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1923. For the conveniences of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available. A member is not limited in the number of candidates he may endorse in this manner."
"In accordance with the recommendation of the A. I. E. E. Committee on Code of Principles of Professional Conduct that its findings and decisions be published in the Institute Journal, which recommendation was approved by the Directors, there was published in the April 1922 Journal the action of the Committee in connection with the ease of a member brought to their attention. In concluding this particular case the Committee has directed that the following note be published:"
"Boston. — January 9, 1922. Subject: “The Double Method of Testing Insulators.” Speaker: Mr. Frank C. Doble. This meeting will be in conjunction with the electrical students of Massachusetts Institute of Technology."
"As an expression of appreciation of Mr. Charles A. Coffin's great work not only for the General Electric Company but also for the entire electrical industry, and with the desire to make this appreciation enduring and constructive as Mr. Coffin's life and work have been, the Board of Directors of the General Electric Company created on his retirement “the Charles a. coffin foundation.”"
"Thirty-nine men, representing as many administrative bodies, trade associations, scientific or technical societies, and government departments make up the Sectional Committee on Colors for Traffic Signals which was organized at a meeting in New York City, November 8, 1922, under the auspices of the American engineering standards committee. The committee elected as it officers the following: Chairman, Charles J. Bennett, State Highway Commissioner of Connecticut, Vice-chairman, Dr. M. G. Lloyd, Secretary, Walter S. Paine."
"Appointments to the President's Coal Commission were completed on October 10th as follows:"
"Electrical engineers know a great deal but even they frequently face serious need of relatively inaccessible information. The Engineering Societies Library with its associated information service and the headquarters of the Societies are invaluable sources of aid. Nevertheless there are demands which transcend their limits, for they specialize either in engineering or electrical engineering. It may be worth while then to note and remember that the National Research Council, Washington, D. C. has established a general clearing-house for scientific and technological information."
"M. R. Franklin has accepted a position as Electrical Engineer with the Gulf Refining Co., located at Port Arthur, Texas."
"Frank Warren Smith, General Manager of the Sundh Electric Company of Newark, N. J., and Associate of the A. I. E. E. died suddenly at his home in Westfield, N. J., November, 20th."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library wilt gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Akron. — October 24, 1922. Subject: “The Portable Oscillograph.” Speaker: Mr. J. W. Legg, designer of the instrument under discussion. Attendance 65."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be publishedwithout charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"The rating given to a motor is the manufacturer's guarantee of the motor performance under the conditions given on the name plate. Assuming that this rating is entirely safe, then the successful functioning of the motor depends entirely upon the application engineer's analysis of the particular duty that the motor will be required to perform. Where the required motor output is practically constant the application is simple; however, in many cases the motor load is apt to be anything but constant, consisting of loads of all degrees of magnitude, and in such cases the economically correct application is especially difficult. The past improvements made in the motor design, mechanically and electrically, have resulted in greater importance of the motor-operating temperatures, in fact in the great majority of cases the motor rating is limited only by the motor temperature. It is obvious then that correct motor applications depend to a very great extent upon correct operating temperatures. Ratings such as the continuous, short-time, normal, and duty-cycle ratings give the performance of the motors under some particular conditions; however, the duty required of a great number of industrial and railway motors will not agree with any of the above ratings. Thus the application of motors to cranes, hoists, steel mills, and railways must be made with the knowledge of the motor's performance under one or more arbitrary conditions. In general the two ratings which should be known for motor application to such irregular duty are the continuous and a short-time rating. The time period of the short-time rating should not exceed one hour and in many cases a one-half hour run is preferable. The correct application of a motor requires a knowledge of the thermal conditions inside of the motor. Thus it is evident that the motor must be able to dissipate eventually all of the heat losses generated. On a continuous load the final rate at which the heat is transferred from the motor to the air will be equal to the rate of heat generation. The resulting temperature rise can be estimated with the physical conditions known. This is simply a problem in physics and involves the conditions of ventilation with the corresponding ventilating surfaces. To predetermine the internal temperatures requires a knowledge of the rate of heat flow along the various heat flow paths to the ventilating surfaces. Under irregular loads the temperatures are transient and are determined not only by the conditions of ventilation and rates of heat flow, but also by the motor's ability to store heat, which is proportional to the product of the motor's mass and specific heat. Hence the temperature rise of any part of a motor under any given load for some definite time is a function of the rate of heat flow from that part to the surrounding air and its thermal capacity. Thus from the known physical conditions the temperature rise of the motor can be predetermined and with certain assumptions a simple equation can be developed which will give an approximate value of the motor temperature under any given load conditions. When the constants of the theoretical equations are based upon tests (such as given by short-time and continuous rating) the above method of temperature predetermination will be sufficiently accurate for most practical purposes, and will make possible the calculation of the motor temperature rise under any duty cycle. The temperatures referred to are not only those temperatures obtained by thermometers upon the surfaces of the machines, but also the maximum internal temperatures, since it is the latter temperatures which first produce insulation failure. The temperatures obtained by thermometers bear no fixed relation to the maximum temperatures for all types of machines under various loads. In order to have something concrete to work upon the writer has taken up the heating and cooling characteristics of railway motors. A brief analysis of the heating at the standard ratings is given. The fundamental equations defining the temperature rise of a motor on a continuous or short-time load are developed, and finally the applications of these equations are made in several specific examples."
"The object of this payer is to show on what factors the flashing tendency of synchronous converters depends, and how, on the broadest considerations, an improvement of their momentary overload characteristics can be obtained. From the interpretation of a number of oscillograms, and other experimental data, it is shown that a heavy load surge produces unbalanced armature reactions, resulting in abnormal voltage conditions on the commutation, which are in turn largely responsible for the flash. Synchronous stability, stability of commutating conditions, and means of choking down the flash, are the means enumerated by which the momentary overload capacity may be increased."
"The system discussed in this paper includes three single-core continuously loaded submarine cables, each of which provides, in addition to a telephone channel, direct-current and carrier-current duplex telegraph channels. A description is given of the design and construction of the cables, of the method of superposing the various channels on each cable and of the terminal apparatus used for their operation."
"The effective a-c. resistance of tubular conductors is required to be predetermined by designers, for radio installations, for large underground cables with non-magnetic cores, and for electric furnace circuits. (See Examples I to IV). For the above purpose, sets of curves are given in this paper. The skin effect ratio for isolated tubes is shown in Fig. 1. For stranded conductors, the resistance must be multiplied also by a ratio for the spirality effect, as is approximately indicated in Fig. 2. When the return conductor is near, a ratio for the proximity effect, as indicated in Fig. 3, is also to be used. A calculation for the proximity effect ratio for thin tubes is made, and the results are compared with tests in Fig. 3. Some of the requirements for future research work on skin effect are discussed. The conclusion is expressed that it seems scarcely worth while providing a non-magnetic core with a 2,000,000 cir. mil, 25-cycle cable in order to reduce the skin effect, but with the other cases considered, the tubular form seems very advantageous."
"Any change in the electrical conditions of a circuit, whether internal, such as a change of load, starting and switching operations, short circuits, or external, such as due to lightning, involves a readjustment of the stored electromagnetic and electrostatic energy of the circuit, that is a so-called transient. Such transient is of the general character of a condenser discharge through an inductive circuit. The phenomenon of the condenser discharge through an inductive circuit therefore is of the greatest importance to the engineer, as the foremost cause of high-voltage and high-frequency troubles in electric circuits. With the development of radio communication — whether wireless or wired — the condenser discharge through an inductive circuit has assumed a great additional importance since, with the exception of a few of the highest power transoceanic stations, which use power-driven high-frequency alternators, the source of power in all radio communication is the condenser discharge through the inductive circuit, whether as a damped wave or as an undamped wave. In undamped wave radio communication, the condenser discharge circuit is coupled with a source of electric power — a battery — in such a manner, that, without interfering with the character of the oscillation, sufficient energy is fed into the circuit to maintain the oscillation, similarly as in the clock, the pendulum is coupled with a source of mechanical power — weight or spring — so as to maintain its oscillation undamped."
"At the 15th Annual Convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society held last September a paper “Determinations by Various Observers of Desired Road Illumination from the Automobile Headlamps”, by H. H. Magdsick and R. N. Falge, was presented. This paper covered the results of a systematic investigation of the lighting requirements under various conditions of road surface, contour, street lighting, boundaries, speed, weather, etc., for a large number of observers. Special equipment controllable by the observer in the moving car enables him to get just the distribution and intensity of light requisite for the given conditions. The fundamental data contained in this paper have proved of much interest and value to motor car, headlamp and cover glass manufacturers, state officials and others interested in motor car lighting. This investigation offers more definite criteria than were formerly available and provides reliable data against which to check the performance of given designs of equipment."
"Textile printing is the process of applying colored patterns and designs to all sorts of textile fabrics. The origin of the art dates back about 2000 years and credit for its discovery is given to both China and India. The present method of printing, known as cylinder or roller printing was invented and received its initial success about 1783–85. There are five methods used in textile printing, namely hand block printing, perritone or machine block printing, stenciling, flat surface printing from engraved copper plates, and cylinder printing from engraved copper rollers. Of the five, cylinder printing is the most modern and important. By this means almost any style of design on almost any fabric can be produced in from one to sixteen colors, and the output from such a machine compared to hand block printing is enormous. For example, the cylinder machine can readily print in 1½ minutes the same number of yards of cloth that would require 15 hours by the block method. The machine in its simplest form, viz.: a one-color machine, consists of a print roll or hollow copper cylinder upon which the pattern to be printed is engraved, a cast iron cylinder, the surface of which serves as a backing for the cloth to be printed, the furnisher or roll which carries the color to the print roll, the cleaning doctor which removes the surplus color from the print roll, and the color box which holds the color. The rolls are suitably mounted in. bearings so that the print roll surface is in contact with the cylinder, the cloth passing between the print roll and the cylinder. Color is supplied from the color box by the furnisher to the print roll which imparts it to the cloth. After printing the cloth is passed over dryers to dry the fresh color. The load on a printing machine consists of two parts, (a) constant load consisting of the dryers, guide roll and cloth conveyers, and (b) a variable load depending principally upon the class of goods to be printed, the length of and pressure used on the print rolls and the speed of the machine. The print roll pressure depends much upon the operator giving what in his estimation is the proper set for the rolls. This has been found to vary as much as 100 per cent for the same class of goods. A series of tests made on several machines each driven by a d-c. motor, in one plant printing cotton cloth 27 to 36 in. wide, gives the following results: Speed Variation: On machines ranging from four to nine colors a maximum machine speed range on any one machine was 4.82 to 1 with a maximum and minimum production for all machines of 84 to 1¼ yards per minute."
"A power amplifier may be so connected to the circuit supplying the power to be amplified that it introduces terms into the equation for the current in the power circuit which subtract from the resistance terms. Upon this fact depends the operation of the device as a generator of sustained oscillations, as a regenerative amplifier, and as a resistance neutralizer. In the treatment of oscillating audion or triode circuits this fact has been pointed out by a number of writers but the more general significance of these subtractive terms has never been discussed. This paper points out that, by making use of the idea of resistance neutralization, circuits and systems having all the properties of low-resistance systems and also a number of other unique properties may be obtained. The first part of the paper derives and discusses the current and power relations which obtain in circuits having a resistance neutralizer associated with them. One of the things brought out is that not only does the neutralizer supply power to the circuit but it also causes the generator or source of driving e. m. f. to furnish more power to the circuit than it would were the neutralizer not present. Thus if the source of driving e. m. f. is the impinging of electromagnetic waves upon a wireless antenna the neutralizer not only amplifies the power received but it actually causes the impinging waves of the correspondent station to give up more power to the antenna circuit while it causes the waves from detuned station to give up less power to the receiving circuit. The power relations cited above while important are not the most important results obtained by resistance neutralization. At resonance, the power delivered to a wireless receiving system by impinging waves is inversely proportional to the net resistance, while the power received from detuned stations is practically independent of the net resistance. The neutralizer, by lowering the net resistance of the receiving system, thus causes the ratio of signal to interfered power to increase. In a simple series antenna circuit the ratio of signal to interferent power, where the interferent source may be either atmospheric strays or interferent station, is a function of (L/R)n where n is a positive number. The neutralizer thus increases the selectivity of the receiving station against all types of disturbances. A general physical argument is given (paragraph 7) to show that a triode may be made to function as a resistance neutralizer. This physical argument is illustrated by a mathematical treatment of the steady and transient states for a particular method of associating the triode with the circuit in which neutralization is desired. This mathematical treatment shows that under all conditions both in the steady and transient state, the neutralizer circuit functions so as to reduce the net resistance of the circuit of interest to some predetermined value. A numerical example is given to illustrate the mathematical theory. In this particular circuit the ratio of the signal to interferent power in the steady state is increased 200 fold by the insertion of the neutralizer. Section (II) of the paper treats of the optimum conditions obtaining in receiving circuits containing a resistance neutralizer, and gives relations for the designing of an antenna and its circuits so as to obtain the maximum selectivity and maximum power abstraction from impinging waves. The last topic discussed (Section 12) deals with a circuit which neutralizes resistance for a narrow range of frequencies near a desired frequency and introduces resistance and reactance into the circuit for frequencies removed fom this band of frequencies. A numerical example is given to illustrate the theory. The performance curves of the neutralizer are given by Figs. 12 and 13. Fig. 14 shows the ratio of the power received at resonance to the power received from a detuned station by a given antenna circuit; first, without a neutralizer, second, with a pure resistance neutralizer, and third, with a selective neutralizer. For example, if the interferent source is detuned by 3 per cent the circuit without the neutralizer gives practically 1 for the ratio of signal to interferent power; with pure resistance neutralization the ratio is about 1300; with the selective neutralizer the ratio is increased to 3000."
"This paper is intended to assist crane designers and electrical engineers in mills and factories to select the proper size and kind of motor by mathematical calculation from given data, and refers particularly to the electric overhead traveling crane. The paper does not apply to heavy duty cranes which undergo regular duty cycles, nor to very small hoists such as the monorail hoist. It is hoped that at some future date someone else will write papers on these two kinds of cranes to supplement this paper. Cranes are classified here for purposes of reference within the paper. It is then shown how to calculate the power required of a motor for hoisting and how to select the particular kind of motor needed; the same information is given for bridge travel with particular reference to the live loads or accelerating loads, and also for trolley travel. The paper discusses direct-current motors separately from alternating-current motors. The calculations for each are also given separately. This is the first of a series of papers covering the field of applications of electrical equipment. This paper is on application of motors to cranes. One will follow by Mr. H. W. Eastwood on auxiliary electrical equipment such as magnetic friction brakes, overload protective panels, and limit switches. To complete the series it is planned to have the third paper on the subject of controller equipment."
"The Spring Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Chicago, Ill., April 19–21, 1922. The Institute headquarters during the convention will be in the Drake Hotel, where the technical sessions also will be held."
"Akron. — March 22, 1922, Engineering Society of Akron Rooms, 41 East Mill Street. Subject “Illumination.” Speaker: Mr. A. R. Holden, of the B. F. Goodrich Company, Akron."
"The Tenth Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in New York, February 15–17, 1922, at the Engineering Societies Building. By tradition, this annual function of the Institute has become established as a working convention, devoted almost exclusively to the presentation and discussion of highly technical subjects. The program for this year's convention was a full one, averaging four papers for each of the five technical sessions, and a large part of the discussion was prepared in advance, resulting in unusually interesting sessions which were prolonged considerably beyond the usual limits."
"An interesting and enjoyable feature of the Midwinter Convention was the presentation of the Edison Medal to Mr. C. C. Chesney on the evening of February 16th. The meeting was called to order by President McClellan. After a few words of welcome he called upon Prof. C. A. Adams who in a brief address explained the origin of the Edison Medal and the method of its award."
"At the request of the American Electric Railway Association, a conference has been called for March 2nd by the American engineering standards committee, to decide whether there shall be uniform specifications for the crossing of overhead wires, and to dispose, if possible, of certain differences of opinion in regard to those parts of the National Electrical Safety Code which deal with overhead lines. It will be remembered that the code has been submitted to the American engineering standards committee for approval."
"The Sheldon Memorial Committee, organized some months ago under the chairmanship of T. Commerford Martin, to receive subscriptions toward a foundation in honor of the late Dr. Samuel Sheldon, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Physics at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, has turned over to the treasurer of the Polytechnic Institute the sum of $15,018, the amount so far paid in by more than 1000 subscribers. There are still a few unpaid subscriptions and it is hoped that enough further pledges will be secured to raise the fund to at least $20,000. Although the sum raised is hardly sufficient to really endow a laboratory, the Corporation of the Polytechnic Institute has ordered that the Electrical Measurements Laboratory be known hereafter as the Samuel Sheldon Memorial Laboratory of Electrical Measurements, and its members have collected among themselves an additional $1000 for immediate improvements and the installation of a memorial tablet. In this manner, the entire fund raised by the committee will be invested in the form of a trust and the income used perpetually for the maintenance of the laboratory, which will thereby become one of the best laboratories of electrical measurements in the country."
"The report of the treasurer of United engineering society for the calendar year 1921 shows a balancing account on December 31, 1921, of $26,434.31, as compared with a balancing account on December 31, 1920, of $16,954.72. The cash on hand as of December 31, 1921, amounted to $14,219.35. Following is a statement of the treasurer's receipts and payments for the year:"
"W. G. Vincent, Jr., of the Pacific Gas & Electric Company, San Francisco, has been elected a vice-president of that company."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Atlanta. — January 26, 1922, Chamber of Commerce Building. Subject: “The Manufacture of Wire and Cable.” Speaker: Mr. F. T. White, of the Okonite Company, Passaic, N. J. The talk was illustrated by an interesting moving picture film of five reels. Attendance 50."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies, and not to the A. I. E. E. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"Owing to repeated failures (the number of which increased as time went on) of 66,000-volt transmission line insulators (pin type) of the first Hydroelectric undertaking, carried out by the New Zealand Government, in 1914, and having in mind that Hydroelectrical Power was to be developed to the utmost of the Dominion's power resources — of which there are many — the investigations contained herein were commenced at the suggestion of Mr. E. Parry, B. Sc. M. I. E. E. late Chief Electrical Engineer to New Zealand Government, and has been continued for the past five years with the sanction and support of Mr. L. Birks, B. Sc. M. I. E. E. Chief Electrical Engineer to New Zealand Government, with a view to ascertaining the cause of such failures. It is the purpose of the paper to show 1. To what extent deterioration has set in on the 66,000-volt line referred to. 2. That the cause is due to the fact that the insulators were initially porous. 3. That tests at present in vogue with regard to ascertaining the porosity of insulator porcelain are totally inadequate, as the authors consider, immersion of the complete unbroken insulator under a pressure ranging from 1500 to 2000 lb. and the total amounting to 250,000 to 300,000 lb-hours the least that will give reliable results. 4. That non-porous insulators can be made that will remain good in service for an indefinite period and withstand perfectly the tests for porosity as recommended. 5. That individual testing with high frequency seems to be the only reliable method for testing for dielectric strength. 6. That a percentage test of each batch of insulators by the maker is unsatisfactory, because unless each shell of each insulator, in the case of pin insulators, and each disk in the case of suspension insulators, is definitely flashed over before being put to service, then breakdown trouble seems bound to ensue. 7. There is room for more cooperation between the insulator manufacturer and the purchasing engineer in regard to acceptance tests and the handling and maintaining of the insulator in service. If manufacturers will not agree to the tests as recommended by the authors, being made in the factory, then in countries such as this (New Zealand) which is situated so many thousands of miles from the point of manufacture, a public testing bureau should be established where undertakings could be arranged for, such tests to be made as described herein, when the cost of replacing the failures should be borne by the manufacturers. 8. That it has been found in New Zealand we have the necessary materials from which insulators can be and are being made, that will withstand the tests described equal to the imported wares."
"THE successful operation of a republican form of government depends in large measure upon an educated people. It is obviously impossible to let the people rule unless their intellectual training has reached the point where they can distinguish between what is right and what is wrong. The better they are educated, the more likelihood there is that the governmental agencies will function in a proper manner."
"In making the electrical calculations for a long transmission line, it is desirable to include the effect of the step-up and step-down transformers and to make a direct calculation for the complete system, without any trial and error procedure. A method for doing this is described for constant-voltage lines, since long, high-power lines, especially those of 220,000 volts, usually require to be operated at constant voltage by means of synchronous condensers. The necessity of using the hyperbolic theory in calculating such lines is pointed out."
"A. Introductory INSTABILITY of an exciter has come to have a number of meanings: (1) large change in voltage for a small change in load; (2) creeping of voltage, up or down, without apparent cause; (3) temporary removal, partial or total, or even reversal of the excitation accompanying sudden short circuit of the alternator; (4) slow oscillation, or possibly reversal, of excitation following a sudden readjustment of either the shunt field or alternator field rheostat;1 (5) “grabbing” the load, etc. when in parallel with other exciters. The last mentioned trouble, which is experienced largely, although not altogether, on compound-wound machines does not occur if respect is given to well-known characteristics of direct-current machines as discussed in any text book on the subject. Therefore this paper deals only with the first four phenomena mentioned above."
"W. V. Lyon (by letter): A series of curves has been plotted which, though they may not be of particular value themselves, indicate a line of investigation that should prove of considerable importance. Curves similar to them have been discussed by Rogowski and others."
"Wm. McClellan: Is it practical, may I ask, to use that device for the tripping of relays in connection with circuit breakers?"
"R. E. Hellmund: There is in such a hammer air gaps on the two sides of the moving parts. Have any difficulties been experienced, such as bending of the moving parts, or getting excessive friction on one side?"
"C. A. Bird: Referring particularly to Mr. Eastwood's paper on brakes, we might add the subject of weather-proof coils. Cranes at steel mills usually are used out of doors, and are subjected to weather conditions that are rather severe, and the design of the brake might be well considered along the same lines as those of the motor. This will refer to the linings as well."
"R. E. Hellmund: The points brought out in the paper simply emphasize something which is overlooked too much in teaching. In electrical engineering, we frequently cannot see the real thing and are forced to adopt conventions in order to make things clear with our limited mental facilities. Now, as long as we have to adopt conventions, we are perfectly at liberty to adopt the one or the other, but the thing that is neglected is to make it perfectly clear that we are dealing with conventions instead of facts. It is all right to teach the separate fluxes to the students, but we must keep in mind that in fluxes may be different as shown in the paper."
"To the Editor: In his very interesting letter (August Journal) on the subject of remuneration of engineers, Mr. Katzman attributes the fact that the engineering profession is paid very poorly to the attitude of injurious modesty on the part of the engineer whenever the question of salary is raised. One need not look, far from Mr. Katzman's letter to find evidence of his contention that this spirit of modesty is encouraged by the spokesmen of the engineering societies. On the very same page, in a paper on training of engineers, Mr. Milton argues that colleges should teach modesty as most modest men are thinkers."
"EVERY engineer knows how difficult it is to make accurate speed measurements and how essential accuracy is in certain cases, for instance, in testing and experimental work. In practise, speed counters and tachometers are generally used. The first register the number of revolutions made by the machine in a given time and must be employed in connection with a time measuring device, usually a stop watch. Here the sources of error are slip and the notorious inaccuracies of stop watches. The speed counter should be applied from 30 to 60 seconds, but during that time many changes can take place in the operation of the machine under test. Slip errors can be held down by the exercise of constant care or entirely eliminated by using suitable drives, but such drives cannot always conveniently be employed."
"A number of states, particularly the more densely populated ones having complicated traffic problems, have automobile headlight legislation which specifies maximum and minimum candle power values at various angles, in order to eliminate objectionable glare and provide adequate road illumination. The ordinary photometric equipment available for making tests of this kind in the laboratory is usually very cumbersome and expensive. At the same time, many of the companies manufacturing and handling headlighting equipment have use for a portable and inexpensive photometric instrument enabling them to make fairly accurate candle power measurements under factory or service conditions. A number of devices is being marketed, suitable for this purpose. Of these the simplest and least expensive is the foot-candle meter. As commonly employed for industrial and similar commercial purposes it is graduated for illumination values somewhat higher than the minimum values ordinarily measured with automobile headlighting equipment. The regular foot-candle meter may, however, be simply and easily adapted to this special work by the addition of a 1/100 point on the voltmeter scale as shown in Fig. 1, thereby permitting of readings as low as 100 candle power at 100 feet ahead of the car."
"A paper presented by the author at the 314th meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held in St. Louis, on Oct. 19, 1915, covers the characteristics, electrical and mechanical design of the repulsion-start, single-phase induction motor. The present paper similarly deals with the automatic-start, polyphase induction motor which has very similar characteristics. This automatic-start polyphase motor has come into considerable prominence during the last few years. A large number of motors of this type is now being built and placed in service. While there is considerable literature on the subject of induction motors, there is little information available on this type of motor which in reality is a combination of two types of motors, a very high-resistance-rotor induction motor and a low-resistance-rotor induction motor. The motor is converted from a high-resistance-rotor motor at starting, to a low-resistance-rotor motor running by means of an automatic switch. The objects of this paper are: 1. To set forth the general characteristics of this type of motor as compared with other standard types of motors. 2. To outline a commercially practical method of studying electrical design of existing motors, and predetermining the electrical design of proposed motors. 3. To discuss the mechanical design."
"The item of the greatest moment in this work is the fact that for the first time in the history of the world the extremely high power potential of a million and a half volts (over 2,000,000 volts peak value) was reached and an electric spark discharge was repeatedly caused to take place between sharp electrodes spaced fourteen feet apart. No damage was done to the equipment. This marks a remarkable accomplishment. A pertinent question is — what of it? The modern physicist and chemist who are trying to realize the ancient alchemist's dream of transforming one element into another may be able to approach one step nearer realization by the availability of this new intensity in high potentials. In this high potential is available a new means of speeding up the tiny disrupting projectiles, the electrons, which blast the elements into fragments. These fragments are actually other elements of lower atomic weight. The art of X-ray production may also be benefited. These factors which deal with the ultimate nature and characteristics of matter are less in the mind of the developmental engineer than certain practical results immediately realizable. Three transformers are ready to produce three-phase currents for a possible transmission at a million volts. The engineers of the two big California transmission systems are just reaching the new high mark in practical transmission of power at 220,000 volts. While no projects at a million volts are being contemplated at present, who can say with the ever-advancing accelerations in progress how soon such a step may become advisable. At any rate with the equipment available there will be found an answer to the question — If not, why not? The new million-volt, three-phase installation will be valuable in magnifying the possible troubles which may arise in the 220,000-volt practical installation — that is to say, such troubles as may arise from the electric pressures now being pushed above the known field of operation. Information thus collected can be turned immediately to the advancement and economics of the applied art. Also the testing set will have its uses in the near future for various researches in insulation, ionization, spark discharges, lightning, high frequencies, designs of apparatus, and so on. A million and a half volts is not by any means the upper limit of high electric pressure immediately attainable. The author in producing this pressure attained a million volts effective from one line to ground and, therefore, by simply duplicating this set two million volts effective (2,800,000 volts peak value) will be available, all in due time. A million and a half volts produces a discharge of the same general appearance as at lower voltages at 60 cycles. The illustration, Fig. 22 shows all the typical effects, namely (a) the corona or brush discharge at the high tension terminal which precedes the spark discharge; (b) the initial spark discharge at full voltage, through the air; the spark manifests itself in the photograph as a brilliant white streak; and (c) the successive arc discharges at low voltage in places where air currents are strong are pictured in the photograph as lace work. Each successive peak of dynamic current at 60 cycles finds a new path and the space between these threads of light does not show because the current is low and the intensity of the arc insufficient to affect the photographic plate. Incidentally the brush discharge is much stronger in the next illustration, Fig. 23. More time was given to record it on the photograph. Odd Spark Discharges. In one test at a million volts effective value, (or 1.4 million volts at the peak of the generator wave) from the transformer terminal to ground and a spark gap of nine feet, the discharge preferred to find a new path 18 feet long (2.7 million volts instantaneous value of potential). The exact nature of this phenomenon is obscure. It is evidently associated with high frequency. It is just as surprising in its occurence as it would be to drop a heavy weight nine feet above earth and observe it move off in a path 18 feet long before reaching the earth. No photographs of this discharge are shown. Another accidental discharge took place from the cap of the main terminal to an iron fence in the background, Fig. 19. The points are marked “A” and “a” and the arc is shown nearly end-on in Fig. 18. While the designs of these transformers are familiar to the transformer designer with certain elements amplified to meet the conditions of higher voltages, there are nevertheless unique features. One of these features is the use of 30 miles of paper-covered aluminum strip, instead of copper, in the high tension winding of each of the 500 kv-a. transformers. This aluminum strip was chosen not only to give desirable mechanical strength to withstand the frequent short-circuit strains to which a testing transformer is subjected, but also to give a better distribution of the internal static strains. The relatively large dimensions of the aluminum strip give the high voltage winding about ten times the kilovolt-ampere capacity of the low voltage winding. Incidentally the mechanical and electrostatic requirements make it impractical to build a small transformer for these high potentials. Another unique feature results from the combination of very high voltage and the above mentioned strip winding. It is a familiar fact that the exciting current of the usual transformer lags behind the impressed wave of electric pressure. In these test transformers it does not. The exciting current is actually in advance of the wave of impressed pressure. The high voltage windings act on the current as would the capacitance of idle transmission wires. The High Voltage Bushing and Terminal. Three notable features are the large metal cap, the large insulating tube and the heavy aluminum sleeve which supports the bushing on the cover of the iron case of the transformer. The data are given in Fig. 12. Without reviewing the specialists' details of this new work, it is of interest to stand off from the technical side and take a glance at the nature of the accomplishment without details. The favorite method of using analogies will be resorted to. The Analogy of a Bridge to a Transformer Design. Bring to mind the spanning of any river by a bridge made up of numerous strips of steel in triangular connection at their ends. No single strip has to withstand the total weight passing over the bridge. The stresses are distributed among the steel members. Likewise in a transformer there is a distribution of insulation along the thirty miles length of wire in the coils. At no spot does this insulation. have to withstand the entire electric pressure of a million volts. Like the mechanical pressure in the struts of the bridge, the electric pressure is distributed all along the insulation."
"The water-flow indicator herein described consists of a heavy cone-shaped metal plunger floating in a circular orifice. A change in the amount of water flow demands a corresponding change in the free area of the orifice and this is obtained by a vertical movement of the plunger in the orifice. This movement is transmitted through a bell crank and shaft to an external pointer which moves over a scale, calibrated in gallons of flow per minute. A number of these indicators has been in successful operation in several different states since the summer of 1920."
"A new edition of the Standards of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers has just been issued. In this 1922 revision of the Rules are incorporated changes and additions the scope of which is outlined below. The Standards, comprising approximately 180 pages are bound in flexible leather covers. The price is $2.00 per copy, with 20 per cent discount to A. I. E. E. members, dealers and purchasers of ten or more copies. Address all orders to Secretary A. I. E. E., 33 West 39th St., New York."
"F. W. Molitor has resumed teaching at the Arsenal Technical Schools, following a summer's engagement with the Bureau of Standards."
"Merritt B. Miller, an Associate of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, was accidently killed by electric shock at Saugatuck, Michigan, on August 16th. He was born August 24, 1894 at Rockford, Ill., received his early education at Alma, Mich., and attended Purdue University where he studied electrical and mechanical engineering. He was engaged in electrical work until the outbreak of the war, when he became an officer in the Army. After the war he resumed electrical work, and at the time of his death was Engineer for the Central Michigan Light and Power Company, Alma, Mich."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"Ever since the building of the first practical automatic telegraph instruments by Vail in America in 1837, and Wheatstone in England in 1841, an ever-increasing amount of the world's high-speed communication has been carried on by the printing telegraph. While these early machines were built primarily for the use of the European Government Telegraphs or the large American telegraph companies, the developments of the last few years have produced an instrument which is a practical working tool for the service of modern commercial and industrial enterprises. This paper discusses some of the economic principles which determine the applicability of the automatic printing telegraph to present-day communication problems. Examples are given of the application of this type of apparatus to modern business conditions and the fundamental fact is demonstrated that whenever speed is essential in communication, consideration should be given to the automatic printing telegraph. The discussion is limited to those forms of light traffic load printing telegraph systems which have been developed particularly for linking together the departments of the factory, the terminal points of the railroad, the branches of the banking, the brokerage or the selling organization or the units of any other large corporation. A description is then given of the principle of operation of three such systems, somewhat in detail, as there is very little literature on the subject."
"It has been appreciated for many years that the presence of moisture in the soil surrounding underground cable was of assistance in dissipating the heat generated within the cable. But little was definitely known, however, of the exact changes in the thermal conductivity of soils caused by the presence of moisture. The following article shows that moisture plays a predominant part. The relative thermal conductivity of various types of perfectly dry soils, such as sand, clay, gravel, etc., covers a range from only one to two, while the addition of moisture increases the range to five times or more that of dry soils. The article also includes a bibliography on the heating of underground cables, giving reference to 59 papers on the subject in English, French and German."
"This paper is an endeavor to answer questions of practise and criticism of arresters brought out by an investigation conducted by the Protective Devices Committee. For the most part practise in lightning arresters is standardized. In fundamental principles there have been no changes for many years. Improvements in details, especially of construction, are still being made. A new arrester, the oxide film arrester, gets rid of the oil and electrolyte and avoids the necessity of daily charging, but fundamentally it is designed along the same principles as the aluminum arrester. The important principle is the electric valve action — there are but a few milliamperes of discharge rate at normal line voltage, but at abnormal line voltages the discharge current rise to hundreds of amperes. In answer to criticisms made by a few prominent engineers, it is maintained as fundamental that a large discharge rate for an arrester is an absolute essential. The burden of proof falls on those engineers who use arresters of low discharge rate. These arresters cannot discharge the dangerous lightning surges on overhead lines. Since there are lightning arresters of low discharge rate in apparently satisfactory use, an explanation for this anomaly is found in the use of insulators of low arc-over voltage. Either the lightning potential is relieved locally at the insulator or the resultant traveling wave is of too low voltage when it reaches the transformer greatly to endanger the insulation. Poor line insulation is not a solution of the problem of continuity of service. Why not save the cost of the useless lightning arrester? The current in such a traveling wave is about two amperes for every thousand volts of lightning potential, 600 amperes for 300 kv. One to twenty-five ampere discharge rate of arresters has little effect in reducing the lightning voltage. How many arresters should be used, to protect a six-feeder system? It depends on the conditions of insulation in circuit breakers and the importance of continuity of service. According to the conditions discussed in the body of the paper, from one arrester connected to the busbars to seven arresters with auxiliaries are needed. The use of no arresters is discussed from three standpoints. 1. If it is contended that lightning is not of sufficient voltage to cause damage. 2. If it is considered a better investment to put lightning arrester money into spare transformers. 3. If it is considered good practise to so highly insulate a transformer as to give it immunity from lightning. The conclusion reached is that each of these three arguments is dangerously faulty. A new method of inspection of aluminum arresters is proposed. The experiments given in the paper show that the power factor of the cells examined is very sensitive to their condition. There are promises of effecting economies in overhauling aluminum arresters and of lengthening their life. Experiences are given with a 33-kv. arrester in service thirteen years without overhauling. The plates are still in good condition. The usual damaging deposits of decomposed oil on the aluminum film were prevented by using an initial rush of charging current great enough to throw them off. The electrolyte is partially exhausted in strength and needs changing. The discharge rate is still high."
"A kinematic device is described and illustrated which represents the vector diagram of a polyphase induction machine. The parts are made to assume at will different positions corresponding to different loads of an induction motor or generator. The primary and the secondary constants, the magnetizing current, and the core loss, are also adjustable at will. The device permits the visualization of the performance of an induction machine and can be used for a study of a given machine or for a selection of the constants to give the desired performance characteristics of a new machine. The input, output, torque, speed, power factor, etc., can be read off on the device as in an actual brake test. The kinematic connections consist mainly of generalized proportional dividers and of parallel tongs, so combined as to satisfy a system of simultaneous vectorial equations which represent the properties of the machine. Further applications of the device to polyphase commutator motors are suggested."
"The history of the development of the subject is first outlined, and methods of operation of cables are described. The technical side is introduced with a statement of the various conditions which limit operation of cables, and a general method of analysis is developed, based upon an extension of ordinary alternating-current theory. The theory is made use of to analyze the action of cable types and of apparatus which at this time can be regarded as standard. The fundamental theory of the method of analysis, with information on the calculation of transients in electrical circuits, is given in the Appendix."
"AS there has been recently some discussion of the position of the energy front in an electric circuit, and as this discussion mainly consisted in quoting mathematical authorities against each other, it may be of interest to the reader who does not care to go into the mathematics of it, to discuss in non-mathematical terms the energy travel in the space surrounding a conductor carrying electric current."
"While developing a dependable method of taking experimental data with a sphere gap in transit oil, considerable study was made of the behavior of oil under disruptive dielectric stress. The following notes on the dielectric strength of oil are offered as evidence that the nature and character of the dielectric breakdown of oil may be entirely different from that of air. Five hundred successive breakdowns were taken on a sphere-gap in oil at the same gap setting. Because of the well known inconsistency of breakdowns in oil these observations showed wide variation. A curve was plotted to show the relation between the breakdown voltage and the number of breakdowns at each voltage. If the disruptive breakdown of oil is due to the voltage exceeding the dielectric strength of the oil, as is the case with air, it should be possible to represent such a curve of probable error, or “probability curve” as it is usually called, by an exponential equation. In the following paper this is seen to be impossible, the most representative exponential curve being higher than the observations at higher voltages. The explanation is offered that this discrepancy is caused by foreign particles of low dielectric strength being drawn into the gap and that therefore the dielectric strength of oil differs from that of air in that it does not represent the true breakdown value of the oil but is instead a measure of the presence of foreign particles in the oil."
"Accidental arcing grounds on transmission lines constitute the foremost problem to be solved in the transmission of electrical energy over great distances. There has come into use to a limited extent, arcing ground suppressors. This device consists in principle, of a switch in the station which is automatically closed in parallel with the accidental arc at any point out on the system. The parallel path through the switch shunts the current from the arc and thereby extinguishes the arc. This development is not yet completed. This paper gives the results of some experiments on an entirely different device for suppressing accidental grounds — a device that was first advocated by Prof. W. Petersen of Darmstadt, Germany. The essential part of this new apparatus is a suitable reactor connected between the neutral of the circuit and ground. This reactance is chosen of such a value as to neutralize the capacitance of the circuits when an accidental ground of one phase takes place. Under this accidental condition the reactor is electrically in parallel with the active capacitances and, by the well-known fundamental law, the only current that flows to the combination of the inductance and capacitance in parallel is the current necessary to supply the energy loss in the combination. The simplified equivalent conditions are shown in Fig. 4. This energy current can be made very small and it is this relatively small current that passes through the accidental arc to ground. If the ground is of the arcing type, the arc will, under favorable conditions be extinguished, as the energy flowing through the fault is only that necessary to supply the losses in the resonant circuit. If the losses are low, the energy flowing through the fault will be insufficient to support an arc and the voltage of the resonant system is gradually reduced to zero, while the voltage between the former faulty wire and ground gradually rises to normal value. In a comparison of the various methods of grounding and their effects on the operation of a power system, the solid and the low-resistance grounds assume first and second place in the order of desirability. The distinction however, between these two is slight and choice will be determined by local conditions. Either the Petersen earth coil or the critical-resistance ground will assume third place in the order of desirability as the relative advantages and disadvantages of these two are about equal. The advantages of the Petersen earth coil system are: first, the suppression of arcing grounds under favorable conditions; second, the reduction of insulator trouble; and third, small earth current when a fault occurs to ground. The disadvantages are: first high potentials between line and ground due to series resonance; second, maintenance of a series of arcs under unfavorable conditions, that is, resonance and high loss, or large dissonance and either high or low loss; third, difficulty in obtaining selection of the faulty line by means of relay protection; fourth, reduced lightning protection due to the necessity of high settings on arresters; and fifth, increased system insulation due to the shifting of the neutral with abnormals or transients."
"Dr. P. W. Cobb, of the Nela Research Laboratory, has just made public a preliminary report upon some experiments which he undertook for the purpose of obtaining a fundamental idea of the influence of levels of illumination upon the speed of vision, and ultimately, if possible, of determining the exact relation existing between these two things. While these experiments make certain assumptions which have not yet been experimentally tested and technical application of the results are therefore not warranted at the present time, Dr. Cobb's investigations clearly show that there is a general relation between speed of vision and illumination intensities, and indicate that this relation is different for different individuals. The following is an abstract of Dr. Cobb's report on these experiments."
"That a new era in sign lighting is on in earnest is evidenced by the rapidly increasing number of new, bigger, and brighter electric signs in all parts of the country. There is hardly a city or town of any size in which the residents have not experienced real thrills from gazing upon one or more recently-installed, attractive, interest-compelling electric signs. Whether located in the world-famous white-light district of Broadway, or over the door of the general merchandise store on Main Street in a small town, the brighter electric signs shine forth at night and burn their glowing messages into the minds of all passers-by with great effectiveness."
"The report of the Committee on Elimination of Waste in Industry of the American Engineering Council on “Accidents Due to Eye Defects” contains some very interesting observations regarding the prevalence of defective vision as found in the industries today. It stresses the importance of correcting subnormal vision among employees, insisting that excess eye fatigue results in conditions which must produce loss, due to lowering the quantity and quality of whatever is produced. Subnormal vision was found to be of great frequency. One investigation showed that out of 2,906 garment workers only 743 or a little over 25 per cent had normal vision in both eyes, 17 per cent having normal vision in one eye with the other eye defective. The highest percentage of defective vision was in the class of workers who made the greatest use of their eyes."
"THE elevator controller is one of the most important and at the same time perhaps the most complicated part of the equipment as it provides many of the safety features. The smooth operation of the elevator car is largely dependent upon its functioning, and the design affects the power consumption to a marked degree. Considerable economy can be obtained by selecting the best type for each particular application."
"A coil of wire wound in any of the familiar forms called “inductance coils” behaves in an electric circuit primarily as an inductance. The potentials of the different parts of the coil are, however, different from each other and from the potential of the ground. For this reason, the coil also behaves to a certain extent as an electric condenser, or rather a system of condensers."
"The tenth annual Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held February 15–17, 1922, in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. This will be the first convention to be held under the new ruling of the Board of Directors which prescribes but four general technical meetings of the Institute to be held each year. Owing to this reduced number of general meetings an unusually large attendance is anticipated and every effort is being made to make this meeting of particular interest."
"The first Annual Meeting of the Federated American Engineering Societies was held at the Cosmos Club, Washington, January 5th and 6th."
"After several years of thought and discussion along similar lines, the movement for the affiliation of the architectural, engineering and other technical societies of Detroit was taken up seriously in June 1921 by the organization of a Temporary Council composed of two delegates from each of the several societies interested. The affiliation has become an accomplished fact, taking effect January 1, 1922, by the ratification of the proposed Constitution and By-Laws, acceptance of membership and election of Councellors by the following twelve societies: Detroit Section, American Society of Civil Engineers; Detroit Chapter, American Association of Engineers; Michigan Chapter, American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers; Detroit Post, Society of American Military Engineers; Detroit Section, American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Detroit-Ann Arbor Section, American Institute of Electrical Engineers; American Institute of Chemical Engineers; Detroit Engineering Society; American Chemical Society and Detroit Chemists; Michigan Chapter, American Institute of Architects; Detroit Section, Michigan Society of Architects; Detroit Chapter, American Society of Steel Treating."
"Paul Liunge, of the engineering department of the New York Edison Company, has sailed for Denmark for several months' stay."
"Wm. F. Doherty, of Bombay, India, was murdered in Bombay by Indian rioters on November 19, 1921. Mr. Doherty with his wife had attended various functions held in connection with the visit of the Prince of Wales, and on the morning of the 19th left for Byculla to see about some repairs for the Bombay Building Supply Company, of which he was part owner. He had received no warning of any danger, but on the way was waylaid by a mob of rioters and murdered. Mr. Doherty was an American, born in Bentonville, Arkansas, in 1881. He was a graduate of the University of Nevada. After a number of years of engineering experience with various companies in this country, including a year as chief engineer in charge of the El Paso Milling Company, El Paso, Tex., he went to Spain in 1913 to take full charge of the installation of equipment in the Pobla hydroelectric station. After nearly two years there he left for Cuba, where he was assistant chief electrical engineer with the Cuban American Sugar Company. Several years later he became connected with the Tata Hydroelectric Power Supply Company, Bombay, as chief engineer of generation, which position he held until 1921, leaving in order to devote his time to the Bombay Building Supply Company. This company was originated through a new process invented by Mr. Doherty for the excavation of sand shingle from beneath 15 to 20 feet of water. The company is contractor to the government. Mr. Doherty became a Member of the Institute early in 1919."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Atlanta. — December 29, 1921, Assembly Hall, Chamber of Commerce Building. Subject: “Muscle Shoals” (illustrated by hydrographic charts and blueprints). Speaker: Mr. Charles G. Adsit, of the Georgia Railway and Power Company. Following this talk Mr. L. E. Lewis, who was in charge of a portion of construction work when Muscle Shoals Plant was being constructed, delivered a very interesting paper on the general arrangement and the processes which the Government had contemplated. Mr. A. M. Schoen gave a brief and interesting talk on some investigations which he recently conducted at the Wilmington works of the E. I. duPont de Nemours Company. Attendance 100."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies, and not to the A. I. E. E. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"Corona forms on a round wire or cable when the voltage is raised to such a point that the voltage gradient near the wire is sufficiently high to break down the insulating properties of the air. The larger the wire the higher the voltage to cause corona. The corona is luminous and ionizes the air, giving it electrical conductivity; thus corona has the effect of giving the conductor a larger diameter; and since a higher voltage is required for corona on a larger wire, a state of equilibrium is reached and corona is an equilibrium phenomenon not necessarily attended by spark-over. Since corona causes conductivity it is a cause of leakage and consequently of loss of power. It also increases temperature and decomposes the air into chemical constituents which are harmful to insulation. Engineers therefore have usually regarded corona as a dangerous phenomenon and one to be avoided by proper design. Transmission lines, for example, for the most part are designed so that their operating voltage is well below that at which corona would be formed on the conductors. Two suggestions have been made to make use of the properties of corona. The first is as a protective device for transmission lines. Since the corona is conducting and dissipates energy, it has been proposed to operate transmission lines relatively close to the corona-forming voltage. When abnormal rises of voltage due to lightning or other causes occur, corona begins, the air becomes conducting, and the high voltage is relieved. The exact value of corona in this connection is not known, although there is some evidence that it acts in the manner described. A second use of the corona, suggested by one of the authors of the present paper, is that it be used as a method for measurement of the crest values of high alternating voltages. The corona begins at a sharply marked definite value of voltage, and the laws governing the value are now well-known. The corona voltmeter is an instrument for detecting, either by the sound or by the conductivity of the air occasioned by corona, the exact voltage at which corona begins. The value of the voltage is given in terms of the dimensions of the instrument and the pressure and temperature of the air. The instrument has been described in two earlier papers, in which it is shown that the measurements of voltage with the corona voltmeter are more accurate than by any other method and that the instrument has several other advantages over methods at present in use. The present paper deals with methods for increasing the sensitivity of the corona voltmeter and for adapting the ordinary telephone receiver and standard portable instruments as indicators of the first appearance of corona. The corona discharge current is rectified and also amplified by means of hot cathode tubes. Incidentally the experiments on rectification included a study of the wave form of the discharge due to the alternating corona. It was also found that the sound due to the corona could be amplified so that the first appearance of corona would be indicated on a loud-speaking telephone."
"The solution of some advanced problems on alternating currents leads to rather complicated trigonometric transformations. Let now, in addition to the real sinusoidal currents and voltages, certain imaginary currents and voltages be assumed to exist in the same circuit. These imaginary quantities may be selected of such a magnitude and phase that together with the real quantities they will give simpler mathematical expressions than the real quantities alone. In the final results the real and the imaginary terms can be readily separated, because an imaginary voltage cannot produce a real current, and vice versa. This method is based on some remarkably simple properties of certain mathematical functions which contain a real and an imaginary term, as compared to the properties of similar functions containing real variables only. The following two analogs may make this method clearer. A. In order to make extremely fine platinum wire, a piece of heavier platinum wire is coated with silver and then passed successively through several dies until it is reduced to the smallest practicable size. Then the tubular coating of silver is dissolved in nitric acid. It would not be possible to draw platinum alone to the same size. Here the use of silver is analogous to that of imaginary quantities in alternating currents. Silver is carried along in the operations and separated in the end. B. In the manufacture of common ether, sulphuric acid is combined with alcohol and carried through certain operations. In the end this sulphuric acid is separated and used over and over again. Sulphuric acid in this case may be likened to imaginary currents and voltages which are added to real quantities at the beginning of the problem and separated in the end. The immediate occasion for the writing of this article was a paper by Mr. Gilman referred to under (2) in the article. Had Mr. Gilman used superimposed imaginary currents, several pages of tedious mathematical transformations could be saved. A more general reason for writing this article was a desire to bring this method to the attention of American engineers. It is hardly mentioned in American text-books, while it is quite well-known in England and on the Continent of Europe. As is stated in the introductory paragraph to the article, the method is not new, and the examples quoted are too self-evident to claim any originality. A brief introduction to the method will be found in the author's “Electric Circuit,” p. 97. The importance of the method lies in the possibility of solving certain electrical problems in a shorter and more direct way, and possibly in making the solution of certain problems feasible which in the ordinary way lead to too complicated expressions. It is a mathematical tool, and as such should find its place among other useful mathematical methods used in the solution of physical and engineering problems."
"This paper relates to windings such as are used in transformers, reactors and the like, with particular reference to the characteristics which determine internal distributions of suddenly impressed voltages or sudden voltage changes, and the resulting internal oscillations. Ordinary lightning arresters, which limit the maximum voltages reaching the winding terminals, but cause rather than prevent the occurrence of sudden voltage changes, certainly give no protection against excessive voltages between turns or between coils. After describing the production of these transient voltages in ordinary windings, and pointing out that the treatment of symptoms by the addition of extra insulation tends to defeat itself by augmenting the cause, this paper explains these phenomena as due to faulty arrangements of inherent capacitance with the inductance of the winding. A fundamental principle is evolved indicating the constitutional remedy, which, if perfectly applied, would give only uniform internal voltage distributions, however abrupt or frequent the voltage changes at the terminals might be. Methods of application are described for the ordinary windings, by supplementing the faulty arrangements of inherent capacitance with auxiliary capacitances or condensers. Methods are given, also, for the construction of windings with the ideal distribution of inherent capacitance called for by the principle. Two alternative statements of the fundamental principle upon which the ideal distribution of capacitance is based are emphasized in the paper, and the application of the principle is adequately illustrated in the figures, of which Fig. 2 is a simplified diagrammatic representation of the arrangement of inherent capacitance with the inductance of that certain type of ordinary windings shown in Fig. 1, Figs. 3 to 5 illustrate methods of correcting this faulty arrangement by means of supplementary condensers, Figs. 6 and 7 show two typical forms of a general method of constructing windings with the ideal distribution of inherent capacitance, and the remaining figures illustrate practical modifications of this method. With the ideal distribution of capacitance with inductance called for by the fundamental principle here enunciated, sudden and erratic changes in voltage at the terminals of the winding, or impressed wave trains of any frequency, result only in voltage distributions which are at every instant uniform. With practical arrangements approximating the ideal one, it is only necessary to insulate between turns and between coils, with ordinary factors of safety, for the proportional part of the maximum voltage which may appear at the terminals."
"Overhead grounded wires have been in extensive use since the construction of the earliest transmission circuits. The fundamental theory of their protective value is based on Faraday's ice-pail experiment. As the resulting law goes, there is no electrostatic field emanating from the inner surface of a charged hollow conductor. The parallel grounded wires do not surround the power wires. Consequently the protection of these grounded wires against induced electric charges by thunderclouds, is only partial — usually of the order of 25 to 40 per cent. It might be erroneously inferred that several decades of use of the overhead grounded wire had established by practise its value. The several factors involved in its use do not lend themselves easily to experimental observations. For example, power lines extend over hundreds of miles, while any particular induced charge is localized at some point in these vast distances. Taking into account the brief period of a lightning stroke, the unwilling observer stands a small chance of being near the point of discharge. Furthermore, thunder-clouds differ from one another. Still further, at the instant the lightning bolt takes place the distance from the thunder-cloud to the power wires varies quite indefinitely. In fact, there is a long list of difficulties involved in experimental observation of the effect of cloud lightning on power wires. As a result, except for a few small-scale experiments performed in the laboratory, knowledge of the subject is confined almost entirely to theoretical analyses. This paper is an addition to the theory but it is not of a mathematical nature. Conditions of protection have changed in recent times. Therefore, in this paper the definite conclusion is drawn that the expense of overhead grounded wires on wooden pole lines is, in general, an economic waste. In particular cases it may be justified. On metal tower construction the use of the overhead grounded wire is, in general, fully justifiable. The analyses in this paper were made for presentation to a Public Service Commission. This Commission, on reconsideration, reversed its order that an overhead grounded wire should be installed on a 13-kv. transmission circuit supported on a wooden structure. Review of New Material. — References to the technical literature on the subject of overhead grounded wires are given in the bibliography which follows the paper. For those familiar with the subject there is given below a brief review of several parts of the paper which emphasize the recent additions to the knowledge of the subject. 1. Analysis of the functions of the overhead grounded wire under nine distinct parts, where previously only three functions were classified. 2. Recognition that the requirements of the overhead grounded wire are less than formerly. In the early days the overhead grounded wire was needed to assist lightning arresters, but today the arresters have sufficient discharge rate not to require the assistance of the grounded wire. 3. Analysis which points out that the overhead grounded wire protects only for a specifically limited range of voltage. It is no protection for induced voltage below the normal arc-over value of the insulator, and no protection when the induced lightning voltage is sufficient to arc-over the insulator in spite of the presecen of the grounded wire. 4. Appraisal of the weight to be given to each of the nine functions of the overhead grounded wire and considerations of its cost lead to the conclusion that, barring exceptional cases, it is an actual detriment when placed on semi-insulating structures, such as wooden pole lines. Used here the overhead grounded wire lowers the arc-over voltage of lightning. 5. The overhead grounded wire with considerable sag cannot be considered as a mechanical support to rigid tower structures. 6. Analysis is given to show that the overhead grounded wire on a metal tower line loses its function in protecting arc-over of insulators in proportion to the earth resistance at the legs of the tower. Experimental proof is not available at present. Also the values of ohmic resistance at tower legs which will destroy the protective value of the grounded wire to prevent arcing over insulators are not available. Metallic connections of a tower of high earth resistance to an adjacent tower of low earth resistance have little if any beneficial effect in protecting the insulator from lightning. The horizontal distance is too great. 7. On a grounded neutral system experimental tests of a short circuit of a single phase showed the necessity of connecting the overhead grounded wire to the station earth connection to reduce the earth resistance to a safe value. Otherwise the neutral rose so high in voltage during short circuit as to jump-spark into the low-voltage wiring of the station, blowing fuses and affecting the switch control. 8. Looking to the future, the overhead grounded wire, by lowering the general resistance to earth of all towers to the passage of accidental short-circuit current (of the generator, not lightning) will have a valuable function in connection with arc-suppressors. This function is really the one already recognized as an aid to proper operation of relays. A General Conclusion. — As applied to metal structures the analyses do not bring out any detrimental function of the overhead grounded wire. It is not condemned in this use but attention is directed to some of its limitations. Further study is desirable. The cost of the overhead grounded wire is a considerable factor. At maximum it now seems that for many or most cases one grounded wire only may be needed. Exceptional cases and conditions must be decided by detailed considerations."
"The principal applications of the current locus of single-phase induction motors are the predetermination of the performance of a projected motor on the basis of its constants, and the determination of the performance and constants of an existing motor on the basis of a few simple tests. The first question is particularly attractive to a mathematically trained mind, because, with constants considered as known, it is simply a problem of mathematics; a great amount of work has been done to find and perfect its solution. The second problem is, perhaps, more difficult than the first. Its thorough treatment requires not only the knowledge of the solution of the first problem, but also the ability to make use of more or less complicated combinations of constants given by tests instead of the constants themselves; moreover, the exact solution usually cannot be obtained, and one is obliged to make certain incorrect assumptions, drawing upon the practical experience to set proper limits to these inaccuracies; for this reason, perhaps, the second problem has always been less popular with investigators than the first, and the available results still leave room for improvement, especially in connection with the “tilted” diagram. In what follows this problem is treated by a method which is believed to combine the accuracy with comparative simplicity of the final results — the latter, at least, to the extent which can reasonably be expected when dealing with an apparatus of such inherent complexity as the single-phase induction motor."
"In the present paper, which is a continuation of one presented at the last annual convention, the author extends the method of complex hyperbolic functions to the solution of the problem of heat losses in stranded conductors embedded in rectangular slots. In the preceding paper the discussion was confined to solid conductors and to those having an infinite number of strands. In the latter case, the insulation between the strands was assumed to have no appreciable thickness. In the present paper, conductors are considered which have a finite number of strands separated by insulation of appreciable thickness. In the mathematical development which is to follow, free use is made of the results obtained in the first paper."
"In a certain type of frequency-changer which consists of an armature similar to that of a synchronous converter, viz., a type of direct-current armature with slip rings on one side and a commutator on the other, the energy loss due to the currents flowing in these conductors is here analyzed. The energy loss appearing as heat depends upon the degree to which the currents which flow in or out at the commutator end or the slip rings compensate one another. In the case of the synchronous converter the former are direct currents while the latter are alternating currents. In the case of the frequency-changer, they are alternating currents of different frequency. This paper analyzes the losses taking account of the time and space overlapping of the currents and gives the results for different numbers of phases and for different power factors."
"This Committee has been requested to report on the application of electric power to passenger and freight elevators. An enormous amount of electric energy is used for the operation of elevators and it is therefore fitting that the problem be studied from a power economy standpoint as well as from the more important standpoint of protection to life and limb. It is assumed that the reader knows little of this subject and that practically nothing up-to-date has been published. It is not believed that the reader will be particularly interested in accurate technical details, but that he will want to know the range of application of elevators, their motors, controllers and all safety appliances as represented by best present practise. Included in this report are six chapters as follows: I. History and service requirements. II. Types of elevator machines and the limitation of each. III. Charateristics and limitations of d-c. and a-c. motors. IV. Elevator controllers. V. Brakes and other safety accessories. VI. Power consumption."
"WE are so accustomed to thinking of Thomas A. Edison as the father of the incandescent lamp and of the electric lighting industry that we sometimes forget that his first achievements were in the field of the electrical communication of intelligence, and that in this field he is no less distinguished. To say nothing of his inventions in multiplex and automatic telegraphy, it is well to recall that the field of telephony owes no less to the fundamental inventions of Mr. Edison than to those of Alexander Graham Bell. Bell, it is true, invented the telephone receiver of today, but Edison invented the transmitter, and afterwards invented a highly efficient receiver on a principle entirely different from that of Dr. Bell's."
"The tenth annual Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in New York City, February 15–17, 1922, in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West Thirty-ninth Street."
"Atlanta. — January 26, 1922. Subject: “Automatic Telephone.” Inspection of New Ivy Exchange. Speaker: Under direction of Mr. G. K. Selden, Southern Bell Telephone & Telegraph Company. Place: New Ivy Exchange, 27 Auburn Avenue."
"The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, December 9, 1921, at 3:00 p.m."
"Marshal Foch, the world's greatest soldier and military engineer, was made an honorary member of the four national societies of Civil, Mining and Metallurgical, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineers on the afternoon of December 13, 1921, at the Engineering Societies Building in New York."
"The American Committee on Electrolysis has just issued its 1921 report, superseding its preliminary report of 1916. This report embodies such statements of facts and descriptions, and discussions of methods of electrolysis testing and electrolysis mitigation as the members of the committee have been able thus far to agree upon unanimously. In the preface, signed by Bion J. Arnold, Chairman of the Committee, the following statement is made:"
"The Edison Medal for the year 1921 has been awarded to Cummings Coligny Chesney, “for early developments in alternating-current transmission.” Mr. Chesney, chief engineer and manager of the Pittsfield, Mass., works of the General Electric Company, was one of the earliest experimenters in long-distance high-tension transmission, and has since contributed largely to its development."
"The next meeting of the Council, to be held in Washington, D. C, will start on January 4 at 2 p. m. with a session of the Executive Board at the Cosmos Club. On January 5 an all-day session of the Council will be held, Dean Cooley presiding. Another business session will be held on the morning of January 6, and on the afternoon of that day there will be a meeting of the Executive Board, the new members of which will be elected by the delegates from the national organizations and the regional areas. The business of the sessions will include election of new officers, proposed constitutional changes, presentation of reports, and plans for the coming year. On the evening of January 5 an informal dinner will be given at the University Club, to which the engineers of Washington will be among those invited."
"The new law in New York State that electrical, mining, mechanical, chemical, or civil engineers practising in the state must be licensed, has just begun to function. A board of five engineering examiners, representing each of these branches, passes upon all applications. The present board is composed as follows: President, Mr. Albert H. Hooker, chemical engineering, of Niagara Falls; vice-president, Major Percy E. Barbour, mining engineering, of New York City; secretary, Mr. Henry G. Reist, electrical engineering, of Schenectady; Mr. Virgil M. Palmer, mechanical engineering, of Rochester; and Col. Walter G. Eliot, civil engineering, of New York."
"F. M. Doolittle has resigned his instructorship at Yale in order to devote his time to his electrical manufacturing interests in New Haven."
"Robert McKay, K. C., a brief notice of whose death on November 6 last was printed in the December Journal, was an outstanding member of the legal profession in Toronto, exceptionally well qualified for handling electrical litigation. With an analytic mind and large intellectual faculties, he had a fundamental scientific knowledge which rendered it easy to grasp engineering questions involved in complicated cases. During several years past he was engaged in litigation involving some very intricate technical and legal questions in controversy between large power interests at Niagara, some of the questions being the outgrowth of emergency conditions arising during the war. In this connection several members of the Institute have been called as experts. Mr. McKay belonged to the Toronto Section of the Institute, and probably few members of the Institute have been more interested and faithful readers of the Transactions or have taken more active pride in their affiliation with the Institute. His sudden death at the age of 53, resulting from blood poisoning following an operation, was a shock to his many friends."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Akron. — November 22, 1921, Rooms of Engineering Society of Akron. Paper: “Modern Practise in Transformer Design.” Author: Mr. J. G. Corrin, of the Pittsburgh Transformer Company. The paper was illustrated with lantern slides. Attendance 57."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements (not more than fifty words) will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the Societies constituting the Federated American Engineering Societies, and not to the A. I. E. E. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only. Information regarding the notices published is on file in the offices of the member societies of the Federated American Engineering Societies."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Note: The electric wave-filter, an invention of Dr. Campbell, is one of the most important of present day circuit developments, being indispensable in many branches of electrical communication. It makes possible the separation of a broad band of frequencies into narrow bands in any desired manner, and as will be gathered from the present article, it effects the separation much more sharply than do tuned circuits. As the communication art develops, the need will arise to transmit a growing number of telephone and telegraph messages on a given pair of line wires and a growing number of radio messages through the ether, and the filter will prove increasingly useful in coping with this situation. The filter stands beside the vacuum tube as one of the two devices making carrier telegraphy and telephony practicable, being used in standard carrier equipment to separate the various carrier frequencies. It is a part of every telephone repeater set, cutting out and preventing the amplification of extreme line frequencies for which the line is not accurately balanced by its balancing network. It is being applied to certain types of composited lines for the separation of the d.c. Morse channels from the telephone channel. It is finding many applications to radio of which multiplex radio is an illustration. The filter is also being put to numerous uses in the research laboratory. The present paper is the first of a series on the electric wave-filter to be contributed to the Technical Journal by various authors. Being an introductory paper the author has chosen to discuss his subject from a physical rather than mathematical point of view, the fundamental characteristics of filters being deduced by purely physical reasoning and the derivation of formulas being left to a mathematical appendix. — Editor."
"Note: Much has been written on the subject of the binaural location of pure tones but the case of complex sounds has received little attention in recent literature. The purpose of the present paper is to bring the discussion of complex sounds abreast of that relating to pure tones. Those who wish to acquaint themselves with the work on pure tones will be interested in reading the theoretical work of the authors and the experimental studies carried out by G. W. Stewart and students working under his direction. This work has been reported in various papers, most of which have appeared during recent years in the Physical Review and the Physikalische Zeitschrift. A resume of the present paper is given by the authors in their concluding paragraph. — Editor."
"The art of electrical communication owes a great and increasingly recognized debt to Oliver Heaviside for his work in developing and emphasizing a correct theory of electrical transmission along wires and in particular for his insistance on the importance of inductance. His operational methods of solving the differential equations which are fundamental of the theory of electric circuits, although not widely known, are important. These methods are peculiarly applicable to many important problems of electrical transmission. The present paper, while theoretical in character, therefore deals with a subject of practical importance to the communication engineer. Without attempting to give any adequate idea of the striking originality and ingenuity of Heaviside's methods, his operational calculus may be very briefly explained as follows. Problems in electric circuit theory are described by a set of differential equations involving the differential operator d/dt. These differential equations may be reduced formally to algebraic equations by replacing the differential operator by the symbol p and by this expedient a purely symbolic solution is obtained. This symbolic solution is called the operational formula of the problem. In order to interpret the purely symbolic operational formula, Heaviside proceeded as follows: By direct comparison of the operational formula of specific problems with their known explicit solutions he was led to assign a definite significance to the operator p. Thereupon, he obtained by induction generalized specific criteria or rules for solving the operational formula. The present paper, by attacking the problem from a different standpoint, shows that the Heaviside operational formula is a shorthand equivalent of an integral equation from which the methods and rules of his operational calculus are deducible. — Editor."
"This paper discusses some of the characteristics of the ear which have become important in the design and development of telephone apparatus and circuits. The field of audition, bounded by the curves of minimum and maximum loudness as functions of frequency, has been determined for a large number of ears, and the smaller included area most used in speech has been mapped. The nature of these fields in certain cases of abnormal hearing has also been determined and the conditions which must be observed in designing apparatus to satisfactorily relieve deafness are discussed. The sensitivity of the ear is given in terms of the r. m. s. pressure measured by a calibrated condenser transmitter. It is printed out in the appendix that this pressure is not necessarily equal to that which, when applied to the ear drum, would just give rise to the sensation of sound. However, it is the nearest approach to the value of this pressure which can be determined at present, and as the dynamical properties of the ear become more fully known it is pointed out how the relation between the two pressures can be more accurately stated. — Editor."
"THE Theory of Probabilities lends itself to the solution of many important telephone problems. These problems arise not only in connection with the trunking of calls but also in statistical studies which underlie the making of fundamental plans. in studies carried on in physical research and in the manufacturing of telephone apparatus."
"Many parts of telephone plant, such as central office buildings and equipment, conduits, underground and aerial cable at the time of installation must have the capacity to handle not only the immediate demand for telephone service, but also to take care of growth for a number of years to come. In order to engineer such items of telephone plant economically it is necessary to know in advance as accurately as possible what the demand for telephone service will be five, ten, or twenty years in the future. Forecasts of the future market are very necessary for plant engineering, operating plans, rate treatment, and other purposes, in multi-central office cities. In such cities detailed estimates are made of the market some twenty years ahead and of its telephone development under stated rate conditions. Such estimates are called commercial surveys, and they involve a study of the various factors which, in the course of events, will be likely to control the industrial, commercial and residential development of the city concerned. In the course of such a survey, a rental classification of all families is obtained and at the same time a record is made of existing telephone service in each rental class. The rent data of this article have been gathered in representative large cities throughout the country and the results as here set forth are being used together with many other kinds of data to guide the engineering of future additions to the plant of the Bell Telephone System. In general the income of a family is an index of the market it creates for various commodities including telephone service. Rental values may also be considered as such an index and the present study seeks to correlate rents with incomes. Rents can be readily recorded and classified, whereas it is not feasible to determine the money incomes of large numbers of families. While it may be ideally possible, by a study of rent data, to compare the inherent markets for telephone service and also the strength of the telephone habit in various cities, there are many practical limitations to such a procedure. Comparison of the residence market for telephone service in different cities, as determined by rent values, is made difficult by the fact that the variation between cities in rentals paid for substantially similar dwellings is considerably greater than the variation in prices for food or clothing. Further, there is considerable variation in rent levels even in different sections of any one city. Attempts to compare rent distributions by application of the usual statistical measures of dispersion and skewness have proved unsatisfactory. However, a method of charting has been found by which rent distributions may be readily compared with one another and an index of spread or dispersion determined. It has been found that cumulative curves of rent distribution may be plotted on logarithmic probability paper to yield straight lines for a large number of cities. These are called logarithmic skew distributions. Although it has not been found possible to assign any special significance to the particular value of the index of rent dispersion in any city, this index appears to remain practically constant for that city regardless of changes in the level of prices. In the appendix the mathematical features of the logarithmic skew curve are discussed. — Editor."
"It is shown that a satisfactory measure of power loss in a dielectric is the product of phase angle and dielectric constant. Although the dielectric constant need not be explicitly considered in the design of condensers, it is important in such cases as the design of apparatus panels, and vacuum tube bases. The method used in measuring phase angle and dielectric constant is discussed. — Editor."
"This article points out that radio and wire communication systems are subject, fundamentally, to the same general requirements, and its purpose is to develop for radio, points of view which are familiar to wire transmission engineers. The transmission characteristics over a wide range of distances are compared. For short distances the comparison is favorable to wires. Although over great distances, the attenuation of electric waves, guided by wires, may be greater than the unguided waves of radio, it is pointed out that at the present time intermediate amplifiers can be more economically applied in wire transmission than in radio to boost the message energy. Economy of transmission requires the handling of messages at as low an energy level as possible and, as the author points out, wire transmission satisfies this requirement much better than radio. Referring to the transcontinental line with radio extensions, which was used recently to talk from Catalina Island in the Pacific Ocean to a ship in the Atlantic Ocean, it is stated that had all of the necessary energy been introduced at one end of the circuit, there being no intermediate amplification, the total power required would have been 1.8 × 1029 kilowatts, an amount unavailable in the world. In the actual system, distributing the amplification along the transmission line, the power required sums up to something less than 1 kilowatt. Interference between messages and extraneous disturbances is discussed, and the requirements involved in keeping message energy well above the energy level of the disturbances in both systems are pointed out. The limitations on two-way operation resulting from “singing” of the entire system are considered for both cases and for combination wire and radio circuits as well. The method of improving the efficiency of transmission by suppressing the carrier and one side band is discussed. Finally the factors involved in obtaining high grade quality of transmission are enumerated. — Editor."
"A sensitive cathode ray oscillograph is described which operates at the low potential of from 300 to 400 volts. The electron stream comes from a thermionic cathode and is focused by the action of ionized gas in the tube. This gas, at a pressure of a few thousandths of a millimeter, serves to reduce to 1 mm. diameter a spot which would be 1 cm. across in a high vacuum tube. The sensitivity of the tube is such that the deflection of the spot is about 1 mm. per volt applied between deflector plates. When using magnetic deflection, a pair of coils 4 cm. in diameter, placed on the sides of the tube produces a deflection of approximately 1 mm. per ampere-turn of the coils. — Editor."
"Modern industry is characterized by the extent to which scientific research and technique based on precise study have contributed to its progress. So complete has been the adaptation of arid reliance on scientific research in many industries that it is difficult at this time to visualize the state of affairs of two or three decades ago, when substantially all industry on its technical side was dependent for advancement on cut-and-try, rule-of-thumb, methods of development. Today in many industries the management would not think of embarking on a new project without consulting their research engineers."
"The type of vacuum tube described in the present article is likely to become one of the most remarkable devices of modern electrical science. Vacuum tubes capable of handling small amounts of power have been extensively used during the past few years as telephone repeaters and as oscillators, modulators, detectors and amplifiers in radio transmission and other fields. Practically all such tubes have depended upon thermal radiation from the plates to dissipate the electrical energy which the device necessarily absorbs during its operation. With present methods of construction, and using glass for the containing bulb, a fairly definite upper limit can be set for the power which a radiation cooled tube can handle; as the author points out, this limit gives a tube capable of delivering about 1 to 2 k. w. when used as an oscillator. Contrasted with this, one of the water-cooled vacuum tubes described herewith, although scarcely two feet in length and weighing only ten pounds, is capable of delivering 100 k. w. of high frequency energy. Another tube of similar construction, but somewhat smaller in size, and capable of delivering about 10 k. w. is also described. It is expected that these water-cooled tubes will find important applications in radio telephony and telegraphy. Although the principle of operation of the water-cooled tube described in this article is identical from an electrical point of view with that of the small tubes which are now so very familiar, their practicability has only been made possible by a new and striking development in the art of sealing metal to glass. In the case of the 100 k. w. tube the seal between the cylindrical copper anode and glass portion is 3.5 inches in diameter. The remarkable character of these copper-in-glass seals is evidenced by the fact that they do not depend upon a substantial equality between the coefficient of expansion of the metal and glass. To Mr. W. G. Houskeeper of the Bell System Research Laboratory at the Western Electric Company, goes the credit for developing the copper-in-glass seals. As the article brings out, Mr. Houskeeper has also invented means for sealing heavy copper wire and strip through glass in such a way that the best vacua can be maintained under wide changes of temperature. — Editor."
"Direct capacity, direct admittance and direct impedance are defined as the branch constants of the particular direct network which is equivalent to any given electrical system. Typical methods of measuring these direct constants are described with especial reference to direct admittance; the substitution alternating current bridge method, due to Colpitts, is the preferred method, and for this suitable variable capacities and conductances are described, and shielding is recommended. Proposed methods are also described involving the introduction of electron tubes into the measuring set, which will reduce the measurement to a single setting or deflection. This gives an alternating current method which is comparable with Maxwell's single null-setting cyclical charge and discharge method. Special attention is drawn to Maxwell's remarkable method which is entirely ignored by at least most of the modern text-books and handbooks."
"THE purpose of this paper is to present a simple theoretical treatment of those features of the Petersen method of grounding a power network which are of principal interest from the standpoint of inductive effects in neighboring communication circuits. In this method. the neutral of the system is grounded through an inductance which is in resonance, at the fundamental frequency, with the total direct capacity of the system to ground. The theory of the behavior of a power system thus grounded at times of accidental faults to earth has been developed by Petersen in a paper published in 1919,1 in which the results of field tests and of operating experience with an installation in Germany are also described. The methcd has also found application in other places in Europe, chiefly in Italy and Switzerland. It does not appear in any of these cases that inductive interference was a factor requiring, or at any rate receiving, consideration. In fact, it does not seem that either Petersen himself, or other engineers in Europe who have made use of his scheme, have considered it except as a method of protecting power systems from the effects of accidental grounds."
"Engineering and construction features involved in a complete telephone cable system over 300 miles in length and connecting Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, Pa., are described in the following paper. This cable is designed to operate as an extension of the Boston-Washington underground cable system with which it connects at Philadelphia. It is also designed for operation in connection with the Pittsburgh-Chicago cable now under construction, and other cable projects included in a comprehensive fundamental plan. Beginning with the fundamental factor of public requirements for communication service between cities separated by various distances, there are next considered the methods available to provide this service. Smallgage, quadded, aerial cable, which was decided upon for use in this section after careful economic studies, is described in a general way and the important advantages of the application of loading and telephone repeaters are outlined. The use, in connection with this cable, of the recently developed metallic telegraph system for cables is referred to and some facts are given regarding power plants, test boards and buildings. A few of the many possible combinations of cable and equipment facilities into complete telephone circuits, which will furnish the service required as economically as now possible, are illustrated. The necessity of complete coordination of the many factors involved in a project of this kind is emphasized."
"The present paper presents an extensive theoretical investigation of the impedance of the “sea return” of various types of submarine cables. In the case of the cables used for submarine telegraphy the impedance of the sea return has been practically negligible because of the low frequencies involved. For these low frequencies the cross-section of the return path is very large and its resistance low, even though the specific resistance of sea water is of the order of ten million times that of copper. As the frequency of the cable current is raised, however, the return currents crowd in nearer the cable and the resistance of the return path is increased. For frequencies in and above the telephone range, the return currents are forced into the steel armor wires around the cable and into the water just outside of the insulation. The small cross-section of the water involved and the loss in the armor wires cause the resistance of the return path to become a very large part of the total resistance of the circuit. The present investigation led to the conclusion that the resistance of the return path could be greatly diminished by winding a low resistance conductor in the form of a copper tape immediately around the gutta percha insulation applied to the core of the cable. The concentric, cylindrical conductor thus formed lies within the armor wires but is not insulated from them and the sea water. Estimates of the sea return which would have been obtained in the Key West-Havana cable if no copper tape had been provided give values of 4, 6.5, and 8 ohms per nautical mile at 1,000, 3,000 and 5,000 cycles. The resistance actually obtained with the copper tape does not exceed 1.7 ohms at 5,000 cycles. The greater values would have increased the attenuation by approximately 30% at 1,000 cycles and by 50% at the two higher frequencies. The present cable permits of the operation of a carrier telegraph channel at 3,800 cycles, this lying above the range of telephone frequencies. The paper gives a comparison of the theoretical conclusions with experimental data and the agreement is so satisfactory as to indicate that the theory is a reliable guide in the design of such a cable. — Editor."
"The frequency distribution of energy in speech has been determined for six speakers, four men and two women, for a 50-syllable sentence of connected speech, and also for a list of 50 disconnected syllables. The speech was received by a condenser transmitter whose voltage output, amplified 3,000 fold, was impressed on the grids of twin single stage amplifiers. The unmodified output of one of these amplifiers was measured by a thermocouple and was a known function of the total energy received by the transmitter, corrections being made for the slight variation with frequency of the response of the circuit. The output of the other amplifier was limited by a series resonant circuit to a narrow band of frequencies, the energy in this band being measured by a second thermocouple. The damping of the resonant circuit was so chosen that sufficient resolving power and sufficient energy, sensitiveness were obtained over the range from 75 to 5,000 cycles per second; and 23 frequency settings were made to cover this range. For each syllable simultaneous readings were recorded on the two thermocouples at each frequency setting. The consecutive syllables were pronounced deliberately by each speaker, maintaining as nearly as possible the normal modulation of the voice. Corrections were applied to offset the unavoidable variations in total energy incidental to repetition of a given syllable. 13,800 observations were made for all speakers. The energy distribution curves obtained are essentially the same for connected as for disconnected speech, and indicate that differences between individuals are more important than variations due to the particular test material chosen. A composite curve drawn from the individual curves shows a great concentration of speech energy in the low frequencies, a result which would not be expected from data previously published by others. The actual results contain a factor due to standing waves between the speaker's mouth and the transmitter, a complication always present in telephoning; this could not be eliminated. The rate of energy output in speech for the normally modulated voice, was determined from the readings for total energy and was found to be about 125 ergs per second."
"VARIOUS phases of this subject have received serious study by phoneticians, otologists, and physicists. On account of its universal interest, it has received attention from men in many branches of science. In spite of the large amount of time devoted to the subject, the progress in understanding its fundamental aspects has been rather slow. At the present time the physical properties which differentiate the various fundamental speech sounds are understood in only a very fragmentary way. Some very interesting and painstaking work has been done on the physical analysis of vowel sounds, but the results to date are far from conclusive. Although several theories have been advanced to explain the way in which the ear interprets sound waves, they are still in the controversial stage."
"In view of the enormous increase in the production of motion pictures during the past few years and of the great financial investments represented in the negatives which it is desirable to preserve in the best physical condition for future use, it is necessary that the utmost care be exercised in processing, printing, and storage of such negatives. The best methods known for the preservation of motion picture negatives are discussed."
"The following paper discusses the development through which the constant potential generator has been carried for producing satisfactory results in projecting pictures in modern motion picture theatres. To eliminate any flicker or decrease of illumination on the screen when a second lamp is connected to the generator while the other lamp is being used for projecting pictures, has required very careful study of motion picture projection requirements by the design engineer. As a result, these generators, with their control equipment, have been perfected so that several lamps can be operated from the same generator, using different current values in the various lamps, without producing any visible flicker or decrease of illumination of pictures on the screen. The ability of the machine to carry several lamps at different current capacities will fulfill the requirements of modern theatres where it is frequently desirable to operate stereopticon lamps, spot lamps, flood lamps and a projector at the same time or any combination of these machines."
"The paper contains a brief historical résumé of the art, including the development of the Automatic Film Splicing Machine, with comparative results of various methods of splicing both the negative and positive film, and the results in printing spliced film. The figures show the superiority of automatic film splicing over the method of splicing by hand and with film clamping devices. An endeavor is made to prove greater longevity of film spliced by machine methods. The paper also contains other technical data pertaining to splicing and joining of film."
"The ultimate success of any production depends to a very great extent on the impression received by the audience. Imperfect projection reduces the value of any production. Neither producers, directors, or players make public protest against bad projection. Poor projection is to the motion picture the same as house paint and burlap upholstering would be to an automobile."
"This paper discloses the progress made in the grinding and polishing of the prismatic glass rings, and mechanisms employing them. The paper also cites new applications for these rings which have been discovered since the matter was last brought to the attention of the Society."
"This is a description of a new form of rotary shutter for intermittent motion picture projection apparatus. The idea is based on the principle of optical admixture of the three primary colors or of a complementary pair in order to produce the sensation of white. Scientific application of the above principle has resulted in increased screen illumination and decided reduction of flicker. The theory involved and its practical application are fully dealt with by the author."
"A new method is outlined for testing the performance of a projecting system including light sources, condensing, and projecting lenses. The usual conditions are reversed, the light source being replaced by a dark target possessing identical dimensions and surrounded by a lighted area. Under such conditions perfection of adjustment is indicated by a uniformly dark screen. Any departure from correct adjustment is indicated by the presence of light patches. A new two lens condensing system is described which gives a gain of approximately 50 per cent in the screen brightness. The effect upon screen brightness of various factors such as spherical aberration in the condensing lens and lack of correct adjustment of the component parts of the system is discussed."
"ONE of the most important requisites of a motion picture taking lens is speed. This is, in plain words, the ability to produce on the sensitive film that density which is necessary to produce a useful picture. This speed is given, generally, as the ratio of aperture to E. F.2 The greater the diameter of the effective aperture for the same E. F., the more light passes through the lens, and the shorter is the necessary exposure. Strictly speaking, however, the speed as defined by the aperture ratio is not alone the determining factor for the density of the plate, because the latter depends to some considerable extent upon the number of reflecting surfaces occurring in the objective and upon the kind of glass used. I may refer here to a paper which I read in the Dayton Meeting of this Society in October, 1920. It may therefore happen, that two lenses of the same f value differ in effective speed, and it is also possible that a lens of smaller f value may have the same and even a greater effective speed than another one of higher f value."
"The writer is of the opinion that the motion picture theatre of the future will be comparable to the greatest opera houses of the world. The future of the motion picture holds out great promise of rivalling or running in parallel form to grand opera. Towards this end an equipment far in excess of that which is now used will be necessary. Great improvements in projection and lighting are to be expected. New developments in apparatus will provide flexibility and ease in controlling the lighting effects. It is probable that some type of “color organ” will be used. The contour of the theater will also undergo a change to accommodate new developments in the acoustical equipment."
"An instrument which measures the graininess of a photographic material is described. It is shown by the aid of photomicrographs that the readings of the instrument represent the true graininess as understood by the photographer. The instrument has been used in an investigation of the various steps in the preparation of a motion picture positive to determine the conditions for minimum graininess in the finished print. The exposure of the negative is found to have considerable influence on the graininess of the print, developing conditions being relatively unimportant. An explanation of the excessive graininess which sometimes occurs is given."
"This paper attempts to contribute some information upon the subject of the meaning, advantages, and limitations of visual education through motion pictures. From the standpoint of observation and experiment it evaluates the motion picture as a visual aid to instruction. In general it answers the question, “Can the Movies Teach?”"
"Processes of color photography are divided generally into the additive and subtractive processes. The additive processes involve the production from the original subject of three negatives, each made by means of one of the three primary colors—red, green, and blue-violet. From these negatives, positives are made which are projected in superposition on the screen through filters of the same color as those by which the negatives were taken. — In the subtractive processes, the three negatives are printed in such a way that colored images can be produced, each positive being printed in a color complementary to that of the filter through which the corresponding negative was taken, the red being printed in blue-green, green in magenta, and blue in yellow. These color positives are superposed to produce the color picture. — The screen plate process is a variety of the additive; the filters being extremely small and distributed over the surface of the emulsion. — All these methods have been used for motion picture work, but owing to commercial considerations the process which has developed furthest is the subtractive process in which only two colors are used instead of three, and these are on opposite sides of the film."
"IEXTEND greetings and regret my inability to be among you at your gathering in Boston. Could I be with you I would undoubtedly talk along different lines than will be expressed here with. However, I am going to endeavor to call your attention to the much needed improvement necessary to lighting equipment as used today in motion picture studios for photographic purposes."
"NATURAL color cinematography is au fait accompli, and will develop great importance, but inherent limitations and increased cost as compared with the monochrome will for a long time to come limit its use. Color toning and tinting on the other hand need add very little to the cost, and if skillfully applied adds much to the beauty and realism of the average production which the absence of all color would make monotonous to the eye."
"MR PRESIDENT and Gentlemen: I am going to describe to you briefly the result of the work that has covered a period of about ten or eleven years on the part of Mr. S. Bardy, the inventor and patentee of a moving picture machine. This machine has for its principle a continuously moving film, with a sprocket which carries the film an integral part of the disc shaft upon which the lens or rectifying elements, if you will, are mounted at right angles to the plane of the said disc. The light source is in the usual place, the light going through the film, and through the objective lens, and the motion of the film downward through the machine is constantly kept in proper position on the screen by means of this rectifying lens, which we have made at the present time in segments, which are mounted on the outer periphery of this disc. We have done a great deal of work in this connection, covering a considerable period of time, and have projected a picture on the screen that is very satisfactory. There is no transition apparent. I have not made any photometric measurements of any variation caused by the prism influences of the light, but from direct observation there is no flicker at all, either with the film or without the film. I have not prepared any slides or have I any data sheet to put before you, but I merely wish to say there is a machine of that type, and we are going ahead and making our plans to manufacture the machines and put them on the market."
"It is my purpose to invite your attention for a few moments to two unfortunate conditions which exist in current optical literature and practice."
"Thus the term “pedagogical motion pictures” is not alone descriptive but is appropriate. For brevity, let us translate “pedagogical motion pictures” to “school films.”"
"It is well known that gelatine is used as a base in making the sensitized emulsion which is coated on motion picture film. This emulsion contains a small percentage of moisture and will, when subjected to friction and heat, become quite tacky, so that when film is passed through the projection machine, firmly held in focus at the apperture, it is subjected to both heat and friction."
"The device illustrated was designed to facilitate the use of miniatures and models such as are frequently used to supply extra detail and embellishment for the motion picture, either for the sake of economy where, for instance, the scenario calls for the introduction of a nationally known landmark or object far removed from the scene of taking, or for greater artistic effect."
"I Regret to say that, what I have to show you is not by any means a finished apparatus. It just represents a study and I wish that you would regard it as such. The apparatus itself is rather cumbersome to move and, therefore, we did not set it up here, particularly since you will have a chance to see it in operation, when you visit our plant this afternoon."
"The treatment of this subject is general rather than specific; the prevailing idea being to focus attention upon certain types of problems which bear some relation to the more important phases of motion picture film processing. Examples are given from experiences in actual practice and chosen for their value as indicating the means whereby related problems may be solved. Considerable space is devoted to a consideration of temperature and humidity and the principles of their relations explained. Film splicing is treated fully. Formulae for film splicing cements are given in detail. A convenient and efficient type of cement bottle is described."
"Even the most casual examination of motion picture theatres cannot, it seems to me, fail to impress the thinking one with the idea that exhibitors, projectionists and architects have no comprehensive understanding of the various things involved in distance of projection and projection angle, or of the damage done to the finished product of the industry through and by reason of such lack of understanding."
"We are exhibiting a condensing system designed in the Scientific Bureau of the Bausch & Lomb Optical Co. This condensing system which was mentioned and shown at the Boston meeting by Dr. Kellner, has but one parabolic surface—the function of which is to correct as far as possible the spherical aberration in the rest of the system."
"As a result of wide variations in lighting conditions, in exposure and in development, cinematographic negatives vary enormously in density and in contrast. As a result of these variations, the exposure required to produce the best possible print from such negatives must also vary widely in value."
"Many attempts have been made to find a method whereby the correct printing time for the production of satisfactory prints from motion picture negatives may be pre-determined without the necessity of making trial prints. Obviously such a method if sufficiently simple would be of considerable value in the printing laboratory."
"I Wish to thank you for the honor accorded me in admitting me to membership in this Society, and altho I shall not be able to takean active part in its deliberations as my present home is some ten thousand miles or more from Rochester, I shall take a deep interest in the doings of the Society in future conventions, and if in the future I am able to contribute anything of interest, I shall gladly do so, even while on the other side of the globe."
"I have travelled fifteen hundred miles to attend your convention, and to join hands with you in your work for the advancement of this relatively new profession. I have listened with a great deal of interest to your papers and discussions, and now that you have given me a minute to say a few words I am going to present briefly the pertinent facts regarding the work and plans of the Alabama State College of Engineering."
"I have talked to several of you individually about the U. S. Army Motion Picture Service, and apparently it has been a surprise to you to learn that the army is operating a chain of over a hundred theatres. I am glad Mr. Porter has given me this opportunity to tell you about it. In order to give you an idea of what we are doing I shall have to go back a little."
"Mr. Peck (Applause): I want to say just a few words concerning the film activities of the Canadian Federal government through our Bureau. We call it the Publicity Bureau of the Department of Trade and Commerce. It was started in a small way some few years ago and we now have achieved a world-wide distribution of our films. We produce one-reel series called the “SEEING CANADA” films. These films are modelled on the idea of giving information concerning Canada from various national angles. There are films of the travelogue type; informative films; films dealing with the manufactures of Canada; films showing the scenic beauty of the country and illustrative of the sporting and sight-seeing facilities offered to the tourist. In our work we realize that one of the biggest things we have to sell the rest of the world is the scenic beauty of the country, since over $100,000,000 was left in Canada last year by tourists."
"The Widescope Camera has two lenses one centered above the other and a mechanism to focus them in unison. By this means we take an extended view; twice the visual angle of a single lens camera. The picture is taken on two standard films which syncronize in one wide picture when projected on the screen. (Passing prints of a baseball game around.) Here are some prints of a base-ball game taken at Harrison Field, Harrison, N. J. This picture was taken from the front row of the grandstand, 75 feet from the home plate and takes in the whole diamond and most of the field. The mechanism of the cam movement is much on the order of that used on the Pathe and other cameras. One cam works both film intermittances simultaneously. (Demonstrating.) The Widescope pictures are projected by connecting two projectors of any standard make with a rod and universal joints making one wide picture (exhibited photograph of two projectors connected.) We have not finished experiments of dissolving our pictures to a center, but this can be done by having two irises that will cut each side to a common center. I did not come with any prepared talk on this camera and hardly expected to be able to show it to you gentlemen in session."
"Many of the following definitions are tentative and not yet fully established. Some of the definitions are specific to telephony, and differ in detail from similar definitions appearing in other sections of the rules."
