"MOST engineers interested in alternating-current apparatus are familiar with the usual representation of currents and voltages by means of vectors. Such vector diagrams are in common use in the treatment of transmission lines, transformers, alternators, etc. When the performance of a machine, say of an induction motor, varies, due to a changing load, the end of the current vector describes a curve. When this curve can be predetermined, and especially when it is a circle, the study of the performance of that particular machine is much simplified and the electrical relationships are readily visualized. Such locus diagrams are used to a considerable extent for the induction motor and for certain types of alternating-current commutator motors."
"C. O. Mailloux: The features of commanding interest in Dr. Hering's paper are the “pinch” and “stretch” phenomena, both discovered by him; and the difficulty of explaining these phenomena by the existing theories of electromagnetic fields is what has led Dr. Hering to urge the revision of these theories."
"Cary T. Hutchinson: There are several deductions from the test data with which I am not in entire agreement. These concern the method of analyzing the data rather than the routine of the tests, of which I have no knowledge other than given in the paper. Using the data presented by the author, I am led to certain results which do not agree with his; possibly some of these can be charged to the small scale of the diagrams presented in the paper and others possibly to my failure to understand the method of presentation. It seems worth while to call attention to them, if only to bring out an explanation."
"J. A. Seede: I remember distinctly a large smelting furnace making ferro-alloys in which the condition existed that Mr. Andreae points out, i.e., the charge surrounding the left hand electrode, looking at the furnace from the transformer, indicated that the temperature was too low to produce the required metallurgical action while the charge around the other electrodes indicated that the temperature was high and the metallurgical conditions satisfactory. Such unbalanced metallurgical conditions never produce satisfactory operation and no one had made, or has made to my knowledge, such a thorough analysis as the author has made in this paper."
"J. B. Whitehead: The approximate exponential shape of the charge and discharge curves of composite dielectrics has long been recognized, and many efforts have been made to explain the departure of these curves from the pure exponential form, by various assumptions as to the structure of the dielectric in various arrangements of high resistance paths in conjunction with capacities. Several of these suggestions are in approximate conformity to the experimental observations of the charge and discharge curves as observed with continuous potentials. One of the simplest of all is that used by Dr. Steinmetz in which assumption is made of a very high resistance in series with a capacity, a number of such combinations being assumed with different relative values of the resistances and capacities. Another recent analysis of the problem has been given by K. W. Wagner who, with an entirely different method of approach, through a modification of Maxwell's suggestion of a mixture of two or more dielectrics, reaches the same conclusion as does Dr. Steinmetz, namely that the charge and discharge curves have one principal exponential term accompanied by one or more additional terms of relatively much smaller magnitudes."
"S. Z. Ferranti: It seems to me that when once the commercial practicability of such high pressures as it is proposed to use have been successfully demonstrated that you can then take full advantage of this provided you can go in for a very complete system of progressive feed heating (bleeding at a large number of points). As you already know, great economy results from carrying out this process very thoroughly up to the fullest practical limits. On the other hand, it is not possible to do this unless you heat the water from cold up to nearly the temperature of evaporation under working pressure, by bleeding. This in its turn necessitates a boiler which will work efficiently with very hot feed, and this can only be done by air heating to a sufficiently high temperature, I am sure you have considered this all very fully, and I should greatly appreciate your further views on the subject."
"The optimum conditions of light intensity for the growth of a great variety of plants have been determined using continuous artificial light. The intensity requirements of many plants is such that growth in artificial light alone is practicable in northern regions where winter sunlight is low and unreliable. Plants such as Easter lilies can be speeded up in time of blooming to bring them into the market at a certain date. The use of artificial light makes it possible to force blooming of two varieties at the same time so that hybrids may be more easily produced. There is a correlation between the intensity of continuous illumination and the quantity and nature of the carbohydrates produced in photosynthesis. The production of male or female flowers by some dioecious plants is dependent upon light intensity. — Transactions, I. E. S."
"To make available to municipal civic, and central station officials practical knowledge of street lighting, and to present to them fundamental principles governing the choice and installation of standard street lighting equipment by means of actual working models, a 2000-ft. section of E. 152nd Street, Cleveland, has been equipped with a street lighting research set-up."
"A report of a committee of the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies presented in September, 1923, makes available information concerning the number of lamps and appliances in dwellings in the northeastern part of the country as ascertained through surveys conducted in 1921 and 1922. 1497 residences were surveyed in 1921 and 5015 were surveyed in 1922. The surveys were made in five cities in 1921 and in eight cities in 1922. In each year approximately 100 central station employes visited dwellings and inspected the electrical equipment for this purpose. In addition to noting the number, rating and condition of all lamps and appliances, these men, in conference with householders, estimated the hours use throughout the year for each lamp and appliance. In 1922 graphic meters were installed in more than 100 dwellings chosen as being representative of the whole number surveyed, and records were obtained showing the actual consumption by lamps and by each kind of electrical appliance in these residences during a week in May."
"The danger signal advertisement is a unique way of using light to get (secondary) attention thrown over to an advertisement placed along the roadside. Warning those who pass by of approaching danger it fulfills a two-fold purpose by directing attention to the road and creating the tourists' good will toward the advertiser who erected it."
"The 1923 Pacific Coast Convention of the A. I. E. E. at Del Monte, California, October 2–5, has passed into history as a most enjoyable and profitable Institute event for the fortunate two hundred and fifty-two members and guests who attended and participated in the excellent program of professional sessions and other interesting features, the plans for which had been carefully made and were coordinated and carried out in a highly satisfactory manner by the various members of the Convention Committee."
"The Edison Medal, which was awarded by the unanimous vote of the Edison Medal Committee in December 1922 to Dr. Robert A. Millikan for his experimental work in electrical science, was presented to Dr. Millikan immediately following the banquet held during the Pacific Coast Convention at Del Monte, California, on the evening of October 4."
"The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, October 26, 1923."
"The New York Section of the A. I. E. E. will hold a meeting on the above subject in New York on November 14, 1923, under the auspices of the Industrial and Domestic Power Committee. The program will consist of several papers analyzing the design features of the fan and motor and discussing the application of ventilating fans in large public buildings, such as theatres, office buildings, hotels, etc."
"In his home at Schenectady, New York, on the morning of October 26, 1923, at eight o'clock, Charles proteus steinmetz died from sudden heart failure. His fatal illness followed almost immediately after his return from a trip to the Pacific Coast, during which he attended the Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute, delivering a paper, in conjunction with J. L. R. Hayden, on “High Voltage Insulation.”"
"Lehigh Valley. — November 16 and 17, 1923. This will be the second meeting of the season, to be held at Pottsville, Pa. Speakers will be Mr. Wells, Chief Engineer for the J. G. White Corporation, on the subject of “Pine Grove Power Plant,” and Mr. Lesser of the Madeira-Hill Coal Company, on the subject of “Mine Hoisting.” On November 17th, there will be an inspection trip to the Pine Grove plant and to one or two coal mines in the district."
"Some time ago Joseph Henry was voted a place in the Hall of Fame, New York City, and a tablet was erected in his honor."
"The American Peace Award, created by Edward W. Bok, offers One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) to the author of the best practicable plan by which the United States may cooperate with other nations to achieve and preserve the peace of the world."
"At a conference called by Secretary Hoover with the approval of the President the preliminary discussion was had of cooperative steps by Federal and State authorities toward the approval of superpower development in the Middle Atlantic and New England States. At the meeting which was held in the Board Room of the A. I. E. E. on Saturday afternoon October 13, the representatives of Public Service Commissions in ten northeastern states were present. Mr. Hoover emphasized the fact that this conference was not to be conceived as more government in business but as a step to obtain coordination between public authorities and industries to secure consummation of a great advance in the development of service to the public."
"Prior to the fall of 1914, the courses in electrical and mechanical engineering at the University of Pennsylvania were given in a single department of the Towne Scientific School, known as the Department of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering. The growth in the number of students taking electrical engineering, together with the steadily increasing importance of this branch of the engineering field, led the Trustees of the University in the fall of 1914 to establish an independent department of Electrical Engineering."
"The first of the Aldred Lectures at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, established by Mr. J. E. Aldred, who carried to a successful conclusion the immense hydroelectric development at Shawinigan Falls on the St. Maurice River in Canada, is announced for the afternoon of November 9th. Mr. Gerard Swope, a Technology graduate, of the class of 1895, president of the General Electric Company, will deliver the first of the lectures. Other eminent industrialists and engineers are to complete the program for the first year which will consist of twelve lectures. President Stratton has appointed Professor D. C. Jackson, Head of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Professor Vannevar Bush, in charge of graduate work in Electrical Engineering, to cooperate with Mr. Aldred in establishing the lectures. A number of prominent men have been invited to give papers in a schedule that is being arranged to cover the next five years."
"Resignation of Mortimer E. Cooley, Dean of the College of Engineering and Architecture of the University of Michigan, as president of the American engineering council of the Federated American Engineering Societies was announced at the opening session of a two-day meeting of the Executive Board of the Council held in Rochester, N. Y., October 12."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Akron. — September 22, 1923, luncheon at Portage Hotel. Future plans were discussed. After lunch the party, numbering 23, visited the North High Street substation of the Nothern Ohio Traction and Light Company."
"University of Alabama. — September 25, 1923. Business meeting. Attendance 8."
"Bernard Otting has left the employ of the Cincinnati Ball Crank Company and is now with the Willy Wray Electric Company, Cincinnati, Ohio."
"Frederick C. Bates, a Member of the A. I. E. E. died oil October 2, 1923, at his home in Brooklyn, N. Y., after a protracted illness. He was born in Danielson, Conn., in 1867. In 1887 he entered the employ of the Thomson-Houston Company, at Lynn, Mass. and was sent to Berlin in 1894 to supervise electrical installations with the Allgemeine Elektrictats-Gesellschaft. Upon his return, in 1896 he became connected with the New York office of his company, and he was made manager of the lighting department. For twenty-seven years thereafter Mr. Bates was employed by the General Electric Company, acting for many years as manager of the Lighting department in the New York office. He was vice president of the Orange County Public Service Corporation and an officer in its affiliated companies. He was a member of the Machinery Club and the Engineer Club of New York City."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N.Y."
"The Engineering Societies Employment service is conducted by the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available to their membership, and maintained by the joint contributions of the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. These announcements will not be repeated, except upon request received after an interval of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau. Notice for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City. Such notices will not be acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will usually appear in the issue of the following month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A bulletin of engineering positions available will be published and will be available to members of the societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions. It is believed that a successful service can be developed if these contributions average $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum, temporary positions (of one month or less), three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, and forwarded to the Employment service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled, will not be forwarded."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The application of telephone repeaters has made it possible to use small gage cable circuits to handle long distance telephone service over distances up to and exceeding 1000 miles. A general picture of the long toll cable system which is being projected for use in the northeastern section of the United States was presented recently by Mr. Pilliod before this Institute.∗ Many of the circuits in these toll cables are so long electrically that a number of effects, which are comparatively unimportant in ordinary telephone circuits, become of large and sometimes controlling importance. For example, the time required for voice energy to traverse the circuits becomes very appreciable so that reflections of the energy may produce “echo” effects very similar to echoes of sound. The behavior of the circuits under transient impulses, even when two-way operation is not involved so that “echoes” are not experienced, is very important. In order to keep within proper limits of variation of efficiency with frequency over the telephone range special corrective measures are necessary. Owing to the small sizes of the conductors, the attenuations in the longer circuits are very large. Special methods are, therefore, required to maintain the necessary stability of the transmission, including automatic means for adjustment of the repeater gains to compensate for changes in the resistance of the conductors caused by temperature changes."
"COMMERCIALLY the electric arc is now extensively used, and yet after more than a hundred years of study, there has been little crystallization of opinion as to certain phases of its fundamental theory. Absolute contradictions are frequently found in the literature, and premature generalizations have given rise to more disagreement among the investigators of the equation of the static characteristic of the normal1 arc than the experimental difficulties warrant."
"An investigation of the action of wind on telegraph and telephone lines is described in the following paper. The results of the tests made during this investigation show that the relation between wind velocity and wind pressure on ice covered conductors conforms closely to the generally accepted formula P = K V2. They also indiçate that the wires of such lines, when coated with ice, shield each other from the wind, both when carried on the same crossarm and on different arms."
"Circumstances which make train control a pressing problem at the present time are mentioned. Certain desiderata are briefly discussed; the automatic control should act as a check on the proper exercise of manual control, not as a substitute; should conform to established safe signaling practises; should be designed for the severe conditions of railway operation; should not conflict with existing signals or otherwise introduce new hazards; should so far as possible conform to existing clearance lines; should not impede traffic; may be desired to exercise signal as well as control functions; may ultimately be desired for interlocking plants as well as main line tracks. Methods of transmitting and indication of track conditions to the train are described, (1) by intermittent mechanical and electric contact; (2) by intermittent induction through the use of permanent or electromagnets; (3) by continuous induction from the rails. Two general types of controlling action on the train are described, with some of their variations; (1) unconditional stop effective at a stop signal, with overlapping signal control, and (2) conditional stop effective at a caution signal. Relations between the type of controlling action and traffic capacity are discussed."
"THE advantages of opposition or balance methods of measurement, except where speed is the primary requisite, are too well known to require elaboration in this paper. They may be used, not only for measurements where extreme precision is required, but also in the determination of electrical quantities which are too minute to operate instruments of the direct-deflecting type, or which emanate from sources where conditions would be disturbed by the introduction of such instruments. Since alternating-current instruments are of inherently lower sensitivity than those for direct current, it follows that the need for opposition methods of test are more pressing here than where meters of high sensitivity are available."
"INTRODUCTION WHEN we use the term magnetic permeability we ordinarily think of it as defined by the ratio of B/H = (μ), where B is expressed in gausses and H in gilberts per centimeter. It is the ratio of the flux in a magnetic circuit produced by a given magnetizing force to the flux which would exist if there were no magnetic material present. If we are considering permeability values for inductions less than that at which maximum μ occurs the true permeability is given only when the material has been carefully demagnetized by applying gradually decreasing reversals of magnetizing force. Referring to the magnetization curve of Fig. 1 the permeability of the material at the induction P is given by the slope of the dotted straight line P O."
"The process proposed in this paper is called “Qualitative analysis of transmission lines” because of its similarity to chemical qualitative analysis. Based upon a previous presentation by Mr. Percy H. Thomas the “critical load” for transmission lines is introduced with a simple formula for determining it and various rules are given for the variation of power factor voltage, etc., of a line by relating the actual load to the critical load. The most important parts of Mr. Thomas's presentation are abstracted and presented showing the fundamental physical and mathematical basis for this method of analysis. The detail development of the formula for the critical load is then given and the effect of the various line constants upon it are briefly discussed. Working from the critical load a vector interpretation of the action of a long high-voltage transmission line is given. From this vector interpretation it is possible to predict certain essential operating characteristics of transmission lines. Based on the previous generalities practical examples of transmission lines operating at critical load are then given showing how it is possible by the qualitative analysis to predict desired conditions of operation. Two of these examples show the operation of a 3100 mile copper transmission line of 220 kv. nominal potential. Another shows a 3875-mile aluminum transmission line. In the conclusion an appeal is made for further work along these lines and it is pointed out particularly that this is not an approximate method but an exact method for “Qualitative analysis of transmission lines.”"
"Modern alternating-current engineering involves the necessity of frequently analyzing curves for harmonics. All of the methods of analysis have more or less serious objections. A method based upon the averaging of ordinates selected at the proper intervals has been developed into a machine which is reasonably simple and cheap to construct and can be operated without great skill. The machine depends chiefly for its operation upon a bar containing notches at the proper intervals and each bar is suitable for curves of the same plotted wave length. It is thus limited to curves plotted with the same scale of abscissas, but different bars may be manufactured for different scales and the machine thus adopted to various types of curves. A comparison with the times required for harmonic analysis by different methods shows that it compares favorably with other devices."
"A novel lighting installation was recently made under a bridge of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad in Providence, R. I. A street extends a considerable distance under this bridge with the result that it appears very dary dark to the automobilists in going from the brightly sunlighted street to the darkened street beneath the bridge; then again on leaving the darkened area under the bridge and coming out into sunlight, the drivers were blinded, creating extreme discomfort and endangering the safety of the public."
"A new focusing type of flashlight capable of throwing a beam of 200 to 300 feet greatly enlarges the scope of usefulness of this popular type of portable lighting unit."
"No little disappointment and inconvenience is often caused by the burning out of one lamp of a series-connected Christmas tree lighting set, resulting in the darkening of all of the lamps. The defective lamp is sometimes found only after testing all of the lamps on the tree. This sometimes involves considerable trouble. A transformer designed for use with Christmas tree lighting sets and with electrical toys, eliminates these difficulties by permitting the lamps to operate in multiple."
"It is the opinion of a great many persons acquainted generally with color matching units that these units find their greatest field of application in commercial establishments. While it is true that these units, when first introduced about eight years ago, found immediate favor for color matching purposes in many department stores, haberdashery shops, millinery shops and furriers, it is nevertheless true that these units have their widest application today in locations commonly classed as industrial. To be convinced of this fact, and to obtain a greater appreciation, perhaps, of the possibilities of color matching units from the various standpoints of service to industry, to science, to the arts, etc., one need only examine a classified list of present-day users of these units:"
"The Eleventh Midwinter Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held in New York, February 14–17, in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 W. 39th St. The Convention Committee and the Meetings and Papers Committee have cooperated to make this convention one of unusual interest, and the tentative program which contains a number of papers of special merit also includes several instructive and entertaining features."
"Boston. — January 9, 1923. Subject: “The Doble Method of Testing Insulators.” Speaker: Mr. Frank C. Doble. This meeting will be in conjunction with the electrical students of Mass. Inst. of Tech."
"The Program Committee of the New York Section of the Institute announces that it has been extremely fortunate in securing Professor M. I. Pupin of Columbia University as the speaker for the New York Section meeting of January 19, 1923. There are few men, who are more familiar with the developments of modern physics than Prof. Pupin and when he undertakes to tell the story of this development it is an assurance of a most enjoyable evening to all who can arrange to hear him. Prof. Pupin is one of the few real orators in the engineers' ranks, and the talk he will give will appeal to specialist and layman alike. The Program Committee therefore urges every member of the Section to take advantage of this opportunity and extends a most cordial invitation to all Institute members of other Sections to attend if possible. The meeting will be held in the Auditorium Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, at 8 p. m., Friday, January 19, 1923."
"The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, December 8, 1922."
"The Edison Medal for the year 1922 has been awarded by the Edison Medal Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers to Dr. Robert A. Millikan of Pasadena, Cal., for “his experimental work in electrical science.”"
"The Executive Committee of the Institute's Geographical District No. 1, which comprises New England and New York State (exclusive of New York City), held an interesting and profitable meeting at the Hotel Wendell, Pittsfield, on the afternoon of Tuesday, December 5."
"The N. Y. Section of the American Society of Civil Engineers announces a meeting to be held at 7:45 p. m. on January 10, 1923, Auditorium, Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., at which General Jay J. Morrow, Governor of the Canal Zone will give an address on “Operation of the Panama Canal.” This address will be illustrated both by moving picture films and by lantern slides and will be followed by an address by a prominent representative of the Shipping Industry, after which the subject will be open to discussion. A most cordial invitation is extended by the Civil Engineers to the N. Y. Section of the A. I. E. E. and other Institute members to attend."
"The Joint Committee on a National Museum of Engineering and Industry appointed by the four Founder Engineering Societies is constituted as follows: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Edward D. Adams, and Charles L. Clark; American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, Frederic A. Delano and Dr. Geo. F. Kunz; American Society of Civil Engineers, Clemence Herschel and Nelson P. Lewis; American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Reginald P. Bolton and Holbrook F. J. Porter. Mr. Porter will act as chairman, with headquarters in the Enigneering Societies Building, 29 W. 39th St., New York City."
"The Annual meeting of the american society of civil engineers will be held in New York City on January 17, 18, and 19, 1923 and will be largely devoted to discussions of Education, Research and City Planning. On the evening of January 18, Julius H. Barnes, President, Chamber of Commerce of the United States, will deliver an address on “Transportation Keyed to Production.”"
"Meetings of the I. E. C. Advisory Committees on Rating, Graphical Symbols, Standard Pressures and Regulations for Overhead Transmission, as well as Screw lamp caps and holders, were held in Geneva, commencing Monday, November 20th, and continuing until November 26th, 1922."
"At its meeting on November 20, the Federal Power Commission inaugurated two new policies of administration and questions were raised in connection with several cases involving interpretation of the waterpower act."
"The year 1922 has seen greater activity in industrial standardization than any other year in the history of American industry. Notable progress was made during the year in standardization of raw materials, of manufacturing processes, and of finished products by individual firms, by industrial and technical associations and by bodies that are working on national and international lines."
"A system of designating kinds or qualities of steels by code numbers, each of which would represent a definite specification, will be developed as a result of the decision of a conference of the principal producers and users of steel held at Washington, D. C., December 6, at the call of the American Engineering Standards Committee. The conference recommended that this code be developed under the procedure of the A. E. S. C. and suggested to that organization the appointment of the Society of Automotive Engineers and the American Society for Testing Materials as joint sponsors for the code."
"The frequency of two of the most serious and most common types of industrial accidents should be greatly reduced through the application of two safety codes which have just been approved by the American Engineering Standards Committee. The Safety Code for Power Presses, Foot and Hand Presses, which has been approved as “Tentative American Standard,” is the first national safety code on this subject to be prepared in America. The Safety Code for the Protection of Heads and Eyes of Industrial Workers, which has now received the A. E. S. C. approval as “American Standard” had been approved by the Committee some time ago as “Recommended American Practise.”"
"One of the tribulations of the touring motorist — the hopeless attempt to comply with the automobile headlighting regulations of all the states through which he passes on his trip across the continent — will be removed as soon as the various state motor vehicle departments have all adopted the Specifications of Laboratory Tests for Approval of Electric Headlighting Devices for Motor Vechicles which has just been approved by the American Engineering Standards Committee."
"After careful preliminary consideration, the Engineering Foundation has inaugurated an investigation of arch dams and has appointed the following advisory committee: F. E. Weymouth, Chief Engineer, U. S. Reclamation Service, Denver, Colorado; H. F. McClure, State Engineer, Sacramento, California, (alternate): Paul Bailey, Deputy Chief of Public Works, representing the State of California; M. M. O'Shaughnessy, City Engineer, San Francisco (alternate: R. P. McIntosh, designing engineer), representing San Francisco; H. Hobart Porter, member of Engineering Foundation, New York, (alternate: Wynn Meredith, of Sanderson & Porter, San Francisco); Silas H. Woodard, member of Engineering Foundation, New York; Prof. C. Derleth, Jr., University of California, Berkeley California; H. Hawgood, consulting engineer, Los Angeles; D. C. Henny, consulting engineer, Portland, Oregon; Fred A. Noetzli, Chief Engineer, Bissell & Sinnicks, San Francisco, Secretary. All members of the committee are members of American Society of Civil Engineers. A Chairman is to be chosen at a meeting to be held in December or January."
"Lectures by prominent engineers are being made part of the program of development of the engineering courses in the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale University along broader university cultural lines. These lectures will deal with the engineering profession as a whole — with its history, opportunities and obligations, with its attitude toward public and private needs, its notable achievements, and kindred topics."
"During the last decade there has grown up in industry a new branch of technology. It has received the appropriate descriptive name of human engineering. The development has come about through an increasing demand for means to assist managers in selecting men better suited, from the points of view of employee and of employer, to the work they have to do. There is wide demand for reliable information about the methods which have appeared in the form of mental tests, trade tests, rating scales, and other means of discovering human qualifications."
"The following summary has been prepared in response to numerous requests for a New Year's statement upon the World Economic Situation."
"H. A. Pratt is now connected with the Elevator Supplies Company, Inc., Hoboken, N. J."
"Captain Robert W. Hemphill, Jr. died, December 8, 1922."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library wilt gladly give nformation concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Akron. — November 28, 1922. Subject: “The Story of an Electric Meter.” Speaker: Mr. R. J. Andrews, of the Sangamo Electric Co. Attendance 41."
"University of Alabama. — October 9, 1922. Business meeting. Attendance 14."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be publishedwithout charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL SUPERVISOR. Experience; operation, maintenance, and construction, of power plants, substations, transmission and distribution systems: twelve years' practical experience, of which nine years was in foreign countries. Speaks Spanish fluently, understands Portuguese and Italian. Available for foreign or domestic service, Jan. 1st. E-4062."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The aim of this investigation was to contribute something to our knowledge of traveling electromagnetic waves. Among the transient phenomena that occur along transmission lines, these are still little known, especially as far as their “attenuation” and “distortion,” or change in shape near the “wave front” are concerned. It is first seen that the “classical theory” of the propagation of electrical disturbances along lines, as it has been chiefly developed by Heaviside and Poincare, does not give a correct representation of the facts near the wave front, because it assumes an instantaneous penetration of the current in the wires. It is shown that this theory is an “unidimensional” one, as it considers only one space variable, the coordinate along the line, and, from an electromagnetic point of view, amounts to identifying the traveling waves with plane wave phenomena. Steinmetz's theory of the radiation from traveling waves (Trans. A. I. E. E. Feb., 1919) is then examined, and, as Carson pointed out (Jour. A. I. E. E., Oct. 1921), found based on a misconception of the propagation of the electromagnetic field near the wires of a line. It is remarked that this theory amounts to propagating longitudinal electric waves, a conception in conflict with the basis of Maxwell's theory. This latter proves very easily that, along a perfect line, i. e., without ohmic or leakage losses, plane electromagnetic traveling waves are propagated without distortion and without attenuation; hence that there is no radiation. Losses do not change anything from the radiation point of view (Mie. Ann. Phys. 2, 1900). In the theory of Steinmetz, the radiation was the controlling factor at high frequencies. Although the question could be considered as settled, in so far as Steinmetz raised it, it is felt that the conditions under which traveling waves are started must be elucidated, in order to decide whether, during the transient process of establishing a plane electromagnetic traveling wave, any loss of energy can occur by radiation in free space. This would reduce the radiation to a transient phenomenon instead of to a steady one, as assumed by Steinmetz, i. e., to an effect produced when the condition of plane wave is departed from, as at the origin or the end of a line (“end effect”). The problem, considered in its broad aspect, i. e., from the electromagnetic point of view of Maxwell, appears to be of great complexity. It involves a study of what might be called time-three-dimensional space transient, while the most complicated transients considered in electrical engineering are time-one-dimensional space transients, as was already noticed. It was found possible, however, to decide whether the radiation is a factor of enginering importance in attenuating and distorting waves. There, first, the distribution of current along the conductors of a line is shown to be a very close approximation to the actual, unknown, distribution, with regard to the possibly existing radiation. Then, from this assumption, the radiation of the system is calculated at a corresponding approximation, and its amount found to be negligible compared to the heat dissipated in the line during the same time. From this it is concluded that the effect of the radiation upon the attenuation and the distortion of the waves along the line must also be negligible, compared to the effect of the joulian losses, and in this result a proof “a posteriori” of the correctness of the initial assumption is seen. The first idea of that procedure, but limited to stationary waves, is probably to be credited to M. Abraham (Phys. Zeit. 2-p. 329–1901) who applied it to the calculation of the radiation from a single isolated wire (oscillator), and found it in practical agreement with a more elaborate theory, based on Maxwell's equations. As in this latter application the radiation is larger than the ohmic dissipation, the conclusions of this investigation are even strengthened. An application to the steady radiation from a transmission line oscillating freely at one of its natural frequencies shows, even at very high frequencies, that the power radiated is negligible compared to the heat dissipated. For instance, a 100-kilometer transmission line, No. 00 B. & S. wire, oscillating at three million cycles per second, wastes by radiation only 1/3600 of what is wasted by heat. This is in accordance with the results giren for steady a-c. traveling waves along a line by Carson, (loc. cit.). In the case of a traveling wave suddenly started at the origin of a perfect line, it is found that, when the wave has become plane, the amount of energy ${3 \\over 2}\\ d\\ 10^{-9} I_2\\ joules$ is wasted by radiation. d is the distance in cm. between the two wires of the line and I the constant current suddenly flowing in the line, in amperes. This energy is carried to infinity by an electromagnetic field limited to a thin spherical shell of variable depth, (not thicker than d), expanding at the speed of light. A reflection of the wave at a free end of a line is shown to add to the preceding an amount of radiated energy $4\\ d\\ 10^{-9}\\ I^2\\ joules$ and only half that amount for a grounded line. A complete transposition causes a radiation four times as large as the sudden starting of the wave. Compared to the joulian dissipation during the time the wave takes to travel once along the line, the radiated energy is of the order of 1/10,000th. The influence of the radiation on the attenuation and distortion of traveling waves is thus found entirely negligible in engineering practise. Other possible factors are suggested."
"The Department of Chemical Engineering of the Carnegie Institute of Technology has been conducting a series of tests to determine the relative merits of various oils as usable fuels. The completion of this important work should go a long way toward solving the problem of oil conservation, by the possible development of a new fuel."
"THE oscillograph has emerged from the obscurity of scientific laboratories and from the test departments of great electrical industries so that today it is occasionally seen on a rapidly accelerating elevated train, in a soaring air-plane, in a destroyer dashing through a rough sea, on the polished top of a conference table, and, in each case, operating as perfectly as though it were in a well-equipped laboratory."
"IT is well known that a symmetrical T-connection of three simple impedances a o, o b, and o q, Fig. 1, in which the two arms a o, and b o are electrically equal, and with their common terminal o connected to the ground or return conductor g h through the impedance o q, can be completely replaced,∗ at any single assigned alternating-current frequency, by a certain symmetrical π, a′ b′ g′ h′, Fig. 2, in which the two pillars a′ g′ and b′ h′, have equal impedances; also that either of these two symmetrical systems can be completely replaced, at the same frequency,† by a single smooth line conductor a″ b″, Fig. 3, having uniformly distributed series impedance in its conductor and also uniformly distributed lateral leak admittance between the conductor and the return conductor g″ h″. Such a line conductor may be regarded as subtending or possessing, at the frequency in question, a certain complex hyperbolic angle θ, and also a certain single surge impedance or “characteristic impedance,” z0 ohms. Consequently, both the symmetrical T conducting system of Fig. 1, and the symmetrical π of Fig. 2, may be regarded as possessing the same complex angle θ and surge impedance z0, by virtue of equivalence. In any network of conductors, carrying alternating currents of the assigned frequency in the steady state, any of the three equivalent systems of Figs. 1, 2 and 3 may be interchanged, without disturbing the distributions of potential, current and power, at and outside the terminals of the system."
"THE point is well known and generally accepted that many things can be done which do not become general practise until the economics governing the practise show that the difference between “cost of doing” and “earnings through doing” is on the proper side of the balance sheet."
"Subject of the Paper. — A kinematic computing device is described which can be set to represent vectorially the voltage and the current at any point of a long transmission line with uniformly distributed properties and with a given load. The device has been named after Oliver Heaviside who was among the first to establish and to solve the fundamental differential equations of such a line. The parts of the device are made to assume at will different positions corresponding to different points on the line. The constants of a line to be represented by the device are adjustable at will, and a complete set of performance curves of a given transmission line can be obtained. Conversely, by a few simple trials, the best constants of a line and the necessary kv-a. of a synchronous condenser may be found, to give the required performance characteristics. The current, the voltage, and the power factor (or the phase angle) can be read off directly on the device for any desired point of the line, including the generator and the load end. Results of computations are shown for two transmission lines, 1000 and 300 miles long, values having been obtained in the usual tedious way by means of hyperbolic functions of a complex variable, and also read off directly on the Heavisidion. The agreement is as good as could be desired, showing that the device is reliable and that a considerable saving in time is possible with it. The device consists mainly of steel and celluloid bars, proportional dividers, parallel double tongs, and other simple kinematic linkages. Two sharp-edged wheels are used, similar to those used in planimeters. The parts are so combined as to satisfy the familiar exponential vectorial expressions for the sinusoidal voltage and the current, the independent variable being the distance from one of the ends of the line."
"Reasons are given why it is desirable to revise some of our older laws regarding electromagnetic forces and motions which are the basis of all electromotive devices, in order to conform better to more modern developments. Researches with high-current densities in such mobile conductors as liquids and arcs, have brought out some heretofore unnoticed forces, the existence of some of which had been denied. Some of our older laws are claimed to mislead, to be inaccurate, incomplete, to involve unnecessary complications such as the forced definitions of a sliding contact, are based on the wrong fundamentals, specify results contrary to the facts, and are not universal, thereby checking possible progress if accepted as universal. A new and simple general law is proposed, based on one of the fundamental universal laws of physics. It is shown how this might also be made the basis of a much desired universal law of induction. It leads to the existence of a force longitudinal to the conductor, which our older laws deny. Numerous experiments are described illustrating and bearing out the arguments. Suggestions are made showing how the laws and the present usual methods of mathematical treatment of such forces might be revised in order to make them more satisfactory, easier for the student to understand, and for the engineer to use. If the alleged improper restrictions imposed by former laws are removed, developments in new fields may become possible. In conclusion a tentative plan for revision is suggested."
"A child's idea of an angle is a corner or edge; the sharper the corner or edge, the smaller is the angle, and hence expressions like “acute (sharp) angle,” “obtu e (blunt) angle,” etc. With a little schooling his idea of an angle is broadened into that of turning or rotation and finds a geometrical expression in a circle. The amount of turning is represented by the area of the sector of the circle like a piece of pie gone over by the turning radius. This broadened dea is still in agreement with the earlier idea because the sector is a surface having a corner at the center of the circle, and the sharpness or bluntness of this corner varies with the area. With further progress, he also learns to associate the angle with the arc of the circle, for, evidently, the length of the arc is a measure of the amount of turning and is proportional to the area of the sector. The angle when represented by the arc of the circle loses all resemblance to a corner, which latter idea however is discarded as unnecessary, emphasis now being laid on “turning” which is well represented by the arc of the circle. Mathematical analysis is then applied which still further broadens the scope of angles and gives rise to the so called “imaginary” angles which are called “hyperbolic” in contrast with ordinary “real” angles which are called “circular,” combinations of these two kinds of angles being called “general” or “complex.” At this stage, any physical interpretation or geometrical representation of an angle practically vanishes, for, a hyperbolic angle can not be conceived of as a rotation, not even as a rotation around an “imaginary” axis, for, how can one conceive of an “imaginary” axis? If the “imaginary” axis be defined as a new axis at right angles to the old axis, rotation around it can easily be conceived of, but it does not correspond to facts, because a hyperbolic angle implies no change in direction, and hence no rotation, but merely affects the magnitude of a quantity. Inasmuch as problems can be solved mathematically without any visualization, the mathematician discards visual interpretations and bases his conceptions on formulas. However, the engineering type of mind finds it both difficult and distasteful to be dependent on symbolic definitions, and craves for visualization. He feels that if physical problems lead to “imaginary” or “complex” angles, these angles must stand for some concrete physical facts and must therefore be capable of a physical interpretation. A broad and yet simple physical interpretation applicable to both circular and hyperbolic angles is developed below, which also applies to their trigonometric functions, as follows: A quantity may be expressed or specified either by its own dimensions or as a percentage of another quantity. The first kind of specification is its “absolute” measure, the second kind is its “angular” measure. Thus “angle” and “percentage” are synonymous terms. If a quantity changes by a certain percentage (compound percentage as in compound interest) that “percentage” is the “angular” change in the quantity in radians. According to this interpretation, neither corner, edge, turning nor rotation are essential characteristics of an angle; they are the characteristics of a limited class only. If the percentage change in a quantity is like itself, geometrically parallel to itself, the per cent change, that is, the angle, is called a hyperbolic angle, and there is no rotation. If the quantity varies without any change in magnitude but only with a change in direction, geometrically perpendicular to itself, the per cent change, that is, the angle, is called a circular angle, and there is rotation. Thus, hyperbolic and circular angles are at right angles to each other, the first being a per cent change parallel to the quantity, and the second perpendicular to it. “Imaginary” thus means a quadrature. However, it is not rotation around a quadrature axis but per cent change in a quadrature direction. This new interpretation is in agreement with the representation by arcs in a more extended vectorial sense in which one is not limited to the arc of a circle but arcs of any shape have an angular interpretation. Thus, consider a portion of an arc of any arbitrary shape, and resol e it into two components, one circular (at right angles to the radius drawn to the point) and the other straight and radial (parallel to the radius at that point). These two arcs expressed as a percentage of the radius represent circular and hyperbolic angles, respectively, and being in quadrature with each other their vector sum is the “complex” angle of the arc. In this interpretation a hyperbola has nothing to do with a hyperbolic angle, and the name is unfortunate. It would have been more intelligible to speak of the ordinary circular angle as a “quadrature” angle, and of the so called hyperbolic angle as a “linear” angle or a “radial” angle. This new interpretation of an angle is then utilized to interpret the physical significance of sines and cosines of angles, whether circular or hyperbolic. The common idea of a cosine as the projection of the radius vector on the X axis, and of sine as the projection on the Y axis, is found inadequate, this idea being limited to circular angles and not being of much value in explaining their occurrence in physical problems. A cosine is then interpreted as the mean vector value of a unit quantity for a given per cent increase and an equal per cent decrease, or a given value of rotation positive and negative. Examples are given illustrating the application of this vector idea in physical problems, as in the resolution of a harmonic wave into two oppositely rotating vectors, solution of differential equations, etc. A geometrical construction is given for the sines and cosines of complex angles, which is not merely a representation but photographically true, so to speak."
"AFTER reading with considerable interest, the two papers presented at the annual convention of the Institute, dealing with the dielectric strength of cables1, the writer analyzed the data presented in each paper from an entirely different viewpoint and also the data given in each paper according to the views of the other paper."
"THE increasing application of temperature measurements to central station control arises primarily from the fact that the limiting factor of safe operation is temperature rather than current or energy output. Another and closely related factor is that of efficiency. With these two influences bearing upon the management there is demanded a knowledge of temperature conditions in the boiler, the engine, the generator and the distributing system. Hence the wide range of temperatures to be measured and the varying circumstances under which they are made often place them beyond the capacity of mercurial or other expansion types of thermometers. Moreover, a permanent and continuous record of temperature may be necessary or it may be desirable to automatically control or limit the temperature of some apparatus or process. The thermocouple has definitely established itself as a convenient and precise instrument for such purposes. We wish, therefore, to consider some of the difficulties to be overcome and precautions to be taken in applying the thermocouple to such measurements."
"The Report of the Street Lighting Committee of the American Society for Municipal Improvements is of unusual interest in view of the fact this society is composed of mayors, city councilmen, city engineers and others interested in civic affairs whose opinions on street lighting matters are a considerable factor in shaping the trend of street lighting practise."
"Although our food industries are highly developed from the standpoint of modern manufacturing methods and sanitary standards, artificial illumination, generally speaking, is an element which has suffered serious neglect. The benefits of good lighting and their relative order of importance in the food industry are, briefly, improved sanitation, increased safety, greater production, reduced spoilage, improved morale and easier supervision of the workers."
"A comparative study of the methods which are used in measuring dielectric loss in condensers, especially those having a large value of capacitance is being made by the Bureau of Standards, which has an air condenser with a capacitance of 1/10 of a microfarad which will withstand 3000 volts without any appearance of corona. The losses in other condensers may be compared with this air condenser which has negligible loss by means of bridge methods. This is not only the most accurate and dependable method of measuring dielectric loss but also is one of the simplest when there is available a condenser having known losses."
"A contract has recently been entered into by the government of the State of Chihuahua, Mexico, and the Compania Agricola y de Fuerza Electrica del Rio Conchos, S. A., whereby this company is granted a concession to extend the power lines from its present hydroelectric plant at Boquilla to Chihuahua and the near-by smelter and mining camps."
"As previously announced, the Eleventh Midwinter Convention of the A. I. E. E. will be held in New York, February 14–17, in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St. The tentative program given in the January Journal and in preliminary announcements has been confirmed practically without change by the Meetings and Papers Committee and includes six technical sessions with 32 papers, one session being a joint meeting with the Chicago Section by means of long-distance telephone and loud speakers."
"The Spring Convention Committee in connection with the Meetings and Papers Committee has fixed the dates of the Pittsburgh Convention on April 24–25–26. The headquarters of the Institute during the convention will be the William Penn Hotel, where the technical sessions will be held."
"The time is very rapidly approaching when consideration must be given to the question of nomination of officers of the New York Section for the administrative year 1923–24. The present officers are particularly anxious to receive suggestions as to candidates for the coming elections and wish to call attention to Sec. 11 of the N. Y. Section By-Laws governing election of officers which provides for the nomination of officers by petition signed by at least ten members of the Section. There are four officers to be elected each year, as follows: Chairman, Secretary-Treasurer, and two members of the Executive Committee. Last year not a single suggestion was received from the membership in spite of the fact that every effort was made to advertise the fact that nominations were open and very welcome to the Committee. It is hoped this will not prove to be the case again this year as the present officers have been very earnest in their desires and attempts to inject new life into Section activities. If you know of a real live wire, get together, make up a petition, your Nomination Committee when appointed will be very thankful for all suggestions. Section 11 of the By-laws follows:"
"Boston. — February 13, 1923. This will be the annual dinner of the affiliated Technical Societies of Boston. It will be followed by the motion picture address by Mr. A. A. Northrop of Stone & Webster, Inc., Boston. The subject shown will be the “Caribou Hydroelectric Development.”"
"On February 19–22, 1923 the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers will hold its 127th meeting at the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th St., New York, N. Y. A list of the various scheduled events follows:"
"An invitation is extended by the Metropolitan Section of the A. S. M. E. to A. I. E. E. members to attend a meeting at 8.15 p. m. on February 1, 1923 in the Auditorium, Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York at which Calvin W. Rice, Secretary of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers will tell of his recent trip to South America. This talk will be illustrated with a short motion picture film and numerous lantern slides. Mr. Rice attended the Brazilian International Engineering Congress at Rio de Janeiro in September 1922 as a member of a delegation of engineers representing various engineering societies in this country."
"The report of the International Conference on High-Tension Transmission, held in Paris, November 21, 1921, has just been completed. Mr. Tribot Laspiere, Secretary General of the Conference took charge of the publication of the report which contains the full record of the proceedings of the conference in a volume of 1200 pages, illustrated by 350 photographs, maps, plans, graphs and drawings. Its contents are roughly divided into four parts: The object of the conference; a general report by Mr. Boucherot; the text in full of the 63 reports presented; and the stenographic reproduction of the discussion following each report."
"In April this Foundation will award to students of American birth twenty Fellowships for study in the Scandinavian countries during the academic year 1923–24. These Fellowships, — ten for study in Sweden, five for study in Denmark, and five for study in Norway, — will bear stipends of at least $1000 each."
"Report of the Ways and Means Committee."
"The American Electric Railway Association and the American Welding Society with the National Research Council, have united in an authoritative investigation on various types of welded rail joints in commercial use. A Committee on Welded Rail Joints was organized early in 1922, has developed a program, secured financial support, and has experimental work well started on a large scale."
"Dwight C. Rockwood, Associate A. I. E. E., died January 1, 1923. He was born and received his preparatory education in Buffalo, N. Y. He attended Cornell University, from which he graduated in Electrical Engineering in 1899. After graduation he took a three years' apprentice course in the shops of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co. In 1905 he entered the employ of the Rochester Gas & Electric Corporation, where he did valuable work until the time of his death."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Provides a notice of recent events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of recent events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL SUPERVISOR: Experience: operation, maintenance, and construction of power plants, substations, transmission and distribution systems; twelve years practical experience of which nine years was in foreign countries. Speaks Spanish fluently, understands Portuguese and Italian. Available for foreign or domestic service, available Jan. 1st. E-4123."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In vacuum tubes with straight filaments of large diameter, it is found that the magnetic field of the heating current exercises a restraining effect on the escape of electrons, equivalent to the action of the grid in the pliotron, or the impressed magnetic field in the magnetron. This new valve principle may be utilized to control the output of the tube for practical purposes, such as changing high-voltage direct current into alternating current; and leads to a very simple and efficient type of tube."
"Practise has confirmed the theory that a valve type of lightning arrester is the best; that is, one which has a very large resistance or impedance at rated voltage, but which has a resistance of only a comparatively few ohms at say double rated voltage. The aluminum arrester was the first of this type and its success is well known. Somewhat later the oxide film (OF) arrester was developed to overcome the disadvantage of charging, and this type too has had remarkable success. A modification of this “OF” type is now announced. Briefly, pills or pellets of lead peroxide, the chemical powder used in the present “OF” type, are made and coated with an insulating film of powder. They are about the size of the familiar sugar coated pills. These are simply poured in an insulating tube, terminals put on each end in contact with the pellets, a series gap added, and the arrester unit is complete. In action, each pellet is a miniature “OF” cell, so the arrester tube contains a number of them in series and parallel. The over-voltage surge discharges through the pellets, which have a low resistance after the powder film is punctured, and sealing occurs at the contact of the various pellets. No dynamic or normal frequency current passes. The characteristics are similar to those of the present “OF” arrester, giving it the fundamental characteristics a successful arrester must have. The pellet construction permits of a simple, flexible and comparatively cheap design."
"This paper presents the theoretical basis for a theorem by which the practical analysis and visualization of short-circuit phenomena can be greatly simplified. The theorem follows from the approximation of neglecting resistance in the application of Kirchhoff's Law to closed circuits. Thus in any problem of short circuits in which the effect of resistance is negligible in the initial moment, and this includes many of them, the theorem applies. It is: If the resistance of a closed circuit is zero, then the algebraic sum of the magnetic linkages of the circuit must remain constant. Illustrative examples are given, including the transformer, the single-phase and polyphase alternator, and the induction motor."
"Although this paper treats of the general case of floating neutral polyphase systems, one of its prime objects is to find the very simplest method of solving three-phase unbalanced star circuits. The method presented below is considered much simpler than the one in which the star circuit is replaced by an equivalent delta circuit; also simpler than the method of replacing one unbalanced circuit by two balanced circuits, one being subjected to direct phase rotation and the other to opposite phase rotation. Although these methods are fairly useful for the three-phase case, they become very unwieldy for a number of phases greater than three. Not only is this method more simple than any so far proposed, but it is a direct method, based on a straight forward application of Kirchhoff's Laws. A final and very important advantage of the method is that all the results are perfectly general, applying equally as well to a single-phase system as to any polyphase star system."
"The use of so-called “artificial lines” — i.e. miniature models of electric circuits — for experimental laboratory studies of transmission-line phenomena is well known. The miniature models are commonly made so as to represent, in true proportion, the electrical constants of a real line. Thus there are artificial telephone lines, artificial submarine cables, artificial long-distance power-transmission lines, etc. A miniature line is a true model of a real line to the extent that the miniature circuit has, for any desired degree of approximation, the same electrical behavior as the full-size circuit. Such laboratory models frequently permit — far more conveniently than the full-size circuit — the study of actual circuit phenomena in a practical and efficient manner. When their limitations are properly understood, miniature circuits may be of great value to transmission-line and operating engineers. Miniature electric circuits may for the present purpose be divided into two general classes: (1) Miniature circuits intended for the study of problems on long lines, such as lines having continuously distributed circuit constants. (2) Miniature circuits for the solution of problems involving complete system networks, inclusive of generating-station and substation apparatus. The following paper deals with a three-phase miniature a-c. system of the network type. The circuit includes synchronous machines, transformers, adjustable resistors, reactors, and condensers, for complete representation of generating stations, substations, lines and loads. The circuit connections are variable, so that any system having not more than the available number of circuit elements may be represented for the correct experimental solution of low-frequency problems. This miniature system has so far given about three years of service in the experimental analysis of transmission system behavior, for existing systems and for systems to be constructed. The problems solved have been within the realms of both the designing and the operating engineers, and have been applied to power systems in this country as well as abroad. One of the by-products of the miniature system is the confirmation and extension of the theory of transmission-line phenomena. Several prominent engineers have expressed the belief, and made the prediction, that after a few years of proper use of the miniature system, the theory and calculation of the present transmission problems will have been so well established that experimental solutions will no longer be necessary. In this paper are given (1) a brief discussion of some of the present problems calling for solutions by the miniature experimental method, (2) a full description of the miniature equipment, (3) an outline of the operating procedure in the solution of problems, and (4) an example illustrating the application of the miniature equipment."
"Of all electro-dynamic machines, the direct-current machine probably is the best understood. It was the first machine to be commercially utilized and it is an interesting matter from an engineering standpoint to follow the evolution which this type of machine has passed through. The first great improvement to be incorporated in this type of machine was the application of commutating poles. As is the case in any radical development, engineering opinion was much divided as to the usefulness of such a construction. At first it was held that commutating poles were only useful where the service was severe, as, for example, in adjustable speed motors covering a large speed range. Today, however, it is well realized that commutating poles are advantageous in all kinds of direct-current machines, except in very small machines of fractional horse power output. It is well understood in the art that commutating poles alone do not offer a perfect solution of the direct-current problem, since there exists in such machines troublesome flux distortions. Many attempts have been made to overcome this by aid of distributed windings, and in this paper is described a form of such windings, which have given excellent results both from an operating and an economical standpoint. This distributed winding consists of two parts, one of which may be considered a counterpart of the armature, and is called a compensating winding. This winding opposes the armature reaction in every point around the circumference and effectively prevents any distortion of the flux. There is also a second winding for supplying the excitation and as is described in the paper, this winding is also distributed. By aid of such field windings, it is possible to meet very extreme conditions of service, for example, as is met with in high-voltage machines. In the machine that is described, the voltage between bars runs up to about 100 volts, or nearly four times the conventional value; nevertheless, the commutation is perfect. Machines rated 15 kw. have been built successfully up to 15,000 volts. One of the mechanical difficulties in building high-voltage, direct-current machines lies in the building of the commutator. A novel type of commutator is described in the paper. This commutator construction provides simple means for holding the segments together, and at the same time secures high insulation qualities."
"This paper presents some of the results of two methods of drawing out the alternating-current corona discharge along a time axis. The first method consists in photographing, with the usual camera, the discharge from a needle point revolved by the alternator which is the source of supply for the high-voltage transformer. The needle is revolved inside a porcelain tube whose outside surface is made conducting and grounded. The second method makes use of a special camera using mirrors revolved synchronously by the alternator itself. This camera is equipped with a shutter so arranged that photographs of sparks may be taken using one sweep of one of the mirrors. Photographs have been taken showing the discharge between needles, both with and without a solid dielectric placed midway between the points. When drawn out along the time axis certain characteristics of corona discharges may be seen, even when the discharge is extremely weak for the exposure may be continued for any length of time with a reoccurring phenomenon. A few photographs giving same conception of the different discharges under varying conditions are given."
"In this paper are pointed out some of the similarities and contrasts of power transmission and telephone transmission over long distances. The problems of telephone transmission on open-wire lines are illustrated by a discussion of the methods by which the over-all efficiency of the transcontinental telephone circuit has been greatly improved. A brief discussion is given of recent important developments in telephone transmission through cables over long distances. An outline is given of the results obtained in the commercial, application of carrier telephone and telegraph systems. Finally, a demonstration talk between Havana, Cuba, and Avalon on Catalina Island off the Pacific coast, is described as an illustration of what can be done with the commercial telephone system in its present stage of development."
"Current progress in electrical development and the increasing capacity of power systems has brought into prominence many factors of mechanical strength that were previously negligible in the design of electric stations and circuits. Heavy currents, that may develop during short circuits in stations that are connected to large generating systems, make it essential that bus and cable supports be strong mechanically as well as adequately insulated. Formulas are given for estimating the forces that may be developed under various conditions with different arrangements of conductors and supports. The mechanical strength of bus and cable supports should be guaranteed by manufacturers and tested as well as the insulating qualities. In order to facilitate the selection of bus and cable supports, it is desirable that uniform terms for expressing the various kinds of loads, standard methods of conducting tests and a minimum factor of safety for mechanical strength be adopted."
"R. D. Evans: In discussing Mr. Goodwin's paper, we wish to comment on three points, as follows: 1. The conditions for the most efficient transmission of power; 2. Stable operating conditions for long transmission lines; 3. The desirability of the circle diagram for calculating performance of transmission lines."
"D. W. Roper: Professor Lyon talks about transients in electrical machinery and develops equations for their analysis. It would be interesting if he would apply the same type of analysis to the transients which we have in our large transmission and distribution systems as well as in the machines."
"H. R. Woodrow: In both papers, the maximum surge potentials have been given neglecting the absorption of our systems, and I believe experience would show that the actual potential rise is less than that given in either one of the two papers particularly on underground systems. This factor has been brought out in connection with some tests which have recently been conducted and which I hope someone will discuss later."
"R. W. Atkinson: I want to say a word with regard to the comparison between the condition of a cable system and an overhead open-wire system with regard to the grounding of the neutral. There is a large and important difference for two reasons. The most important reason is the relative cost of insulation of the cable system as compared with the overhead cable for high voltage. The insulation is a very important part of the transmission system, whereas it is a relatively minor part in the overhead system. You can afford in the overhead system to put on insulation to take care of the voltage rise due to abnormal conditions, and you can afford to put on the insulation to take care of service conditions; whereas the same difference in service conditions costs you a whole lot more in insulation of cable systems. Another difference from the standpoint of operation, is the very much greater electrostatic capacity for the cable system."
"R. N. Conwell: Mr. Sleeper's paper gives an example of one of the methods of determining whether relays are correctly set for selective operation. There is another method, that of keeping accurate records of relay operations in service, which will give equally good results but these are not obtained as promptly as by applying actual short-circuit tests. The expense, however, is much less and it is the only method applicable to those systems in which the transmission cannot be taken out of service for tests. Both methods must be preceded and followed by the same careful analytical study which Mr. Sleeper has given to his problem."
"Varying values of electric current with time are practically the ever-present condition in applications of electricity. There are two main divisions: First, varying loads, producing such data as are given, for example, by the current record of a curve-drawing ammeter; the time is recorded in hours, minutes or seconds. Second, the condition of varying currents in the alternating-current waves themselves or in electrical transient phenomena, as given by a photographic record of an oscillograph (a galvanometer capable of recording instantaneous values of current). The time is here recorded in thousandths of a second. In both cases the energy is proportional neither to the instantaneous nor average value of the current, but to the square of the instantaneous current, as expressed in the familiar equation (i2 R). The process of squaring successive instantaneous values, averaging the square, and extracting the square root, is quite tedious and laborious. After reviewing some prominent labor-saving methods the writer points out that the root-mean-square (R M S) value can be quickly calculated mechanically by a device, invented some sixty-five years ago and widely used for other purposes. Fig. 3 shows the picture of this device, called Amsler's Mechanical Integrator."
"The radio telegraph circuit between the United States and Japan is operated continuously carrying a large portion of the transpacific telegraph traffic. When the recent disastrous earthquake devastated Tokio and Yokohama the radio service was not interrupted. The first news of the disaster came to the United States over this radio circuit and for several days thereafter the most complete despatches describing the extent of the losses and damage came by radio. The writer recently returned from Japan where he was engaged as a representative of the Radio Corporation of America in cooperative work with Japanese engineers at the Iwaki station. The following is a description of the Japanese stations working with America as they exist at the present time."
"Plant control check tests are of importance primarily to the manufacturers of a product. These tests are, however, of considerable importance to the consumer. The lower a manufacturer's losses are, the cheaper his production costs will be. As high losses are caused by defects in the product it is evident that the fewer pieces there are with noticeable defects in them, the fewer pieces there will be that have minor defects in them that will escape detection even with the most careful inspection. Tests that will pick out the pieces that have these minor defects are of great importance to the consumer. Porcelain should be non-porous and tests which will make it possible to cull porous pieces are of paramount importance. If the fuchsine dye penetration method is to be used for this porosity test the selection of the test specimens must be made in a definite and dependable manner. If the firing of the porcelain is not done in a uniform manner so that the location of the pieces most likely to be porous are definitely known the test of any one piece would be of no value and it would obviously be impossible to test every piece. Where a continuous car tunnel kiln is used and the cross sectional area is relatively small the selection of the proper test specimen is not only possible but has been used successfully for several years. A recent development for testing disk insulators comprises a mechanism for subjecting each of the insulators under test to a pull test of 5000 pounds for two minutes, and simultaneously subjecting the pieces to the high-frequency oscillator test. This eliminates any doubt as to whether the porcelain would resist the two tests when applied at once. A petrographic study of thin sections of various porcelains is of great interest, in fact it is essential if the manufacturer or consumer desires to know something of the structure of the product, the extent to which the pyrochemical reactions have progressed and what the variations are from time to time. Several photomicrographs of various types of porcelain are illustrated. These are selected from a wide variety of wares in order to show the various steps in the development of different qualities of porcelain. The unlike thermal expansion and contraction of various porcelain ingredients is undoubtedly the cause of some of the deterioration of aged porcelain. It is evident that if some of the particles in the porcelain are under stress due to their tendency to contract more than the surrounding glassy matrix during cooling, after firing, there will be a tendency for these particles to rupture and break down in order to relieve this local strain. One of the illustrations shows this very well. Overfiring causes the development of gases in the body at a stage when the glassy matrix is in a molten condition. Continued firing causes expansion of the gases and results in the development of a vesicular structure. The degree of overfiring governs the size of the vesicles and the extent to which they have become interconnected. Too glassy a structure also develops brittleness and is to be avoided. Overfiring is well illustrated in Fig. 50."
"THE Priest Rapids of the Columbia River are located a little south of almost the exact center of the State of Washington. The four principal cities of the far northwest — Portland, Seattle, Tacoma and Spokane — having an aggregate population of about 800,000, are each “as the crow flies” about 150 miles distant from Priest Rapids. The main lines of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul R. R. crosses the Columbia at Beverly, 14 miles above the foot of the Rapids. The Great Northern R. R. crosses the river at Trinidad, 40 miles north, and the Northern Pacific, the Union Pacific System and the Spokane, Portland & Seattle R. R. cross the river at Pasco, 60 miles south. A branch of the Milwaukee is now in operation along the River from Beverly, past Priest Rapids to Hanford, a distance of 40 miles. An extension of this line is projected north to Trinidad and south to Pasco which will give Priest Rapids the service of four of the great transcontinental railroads: The Great Northern, the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul, the Northern Pacific and the Union Pacific System."
"Recently conducted illumination-production tests covering a wide diversity of operations in various industrial plants demonstrated in a larger field than ever before the value of higher intensities of illumination and more uniform distribution of light. Among the tests shown in Table I, special interest is attached to the result of the investigation recently made in the United States Post Office Department. In that investigation conducted by the Office of Industrial Hygiene of the United States Public Health Service, it was definitely ascertained that when 8 foot-candles of illumination replaced the 3.6 foot-candle level, there resulted an average increase of 4.4 per cent in the work of the letter-separators."
"For many years condenser lenses have been made in either of two ways: Molded as is the prismatic lens used in motion picture projection and in railway signal lamps, or ground with plane or spherical surfaces as are the plano-convex lenses, regularly used with arc lamp projectors. For some time it has been know that accurately ground surfaces of other than plane or spherical contour (aspheric surfaces) would permit much better control of the light, but early lenses of this design were so costly that they were not practicable for motion picture condensers."
"Adoption of the multiple system for street lighting circuits in many cities has prompted the design of various types of devices for remote control of these circuits. One type of switching device offering many advantages is illustrated in Fig. 1."
"Elsewhere in this issue is printed the report of the Publication Committee which inaugurates several definite changes from the policy heretofore followed in the publication of the Journal and the Transactions. It has been apparent for several years that the constant growth of Institute activities and the increasing number of papers presented at our conventions would result in an accumulation of material for publication too great for the space limitations of a monthly Journal of reasonable size. This condition has been reached during the present year. With only two more monthly numbers available this year, there remain several hundred pages of convention papers and discussions yet unpublished, as well as a large number of acceptable contributions to the Journal. It therefore became imperative for the Publication Committee to take some action to relieve the situation, and at its first meeting this year it promulgated the policy and rules outlined in its Report, on this page."
"When this issue of the Journal reaches many of the members the Pacific Coast Convention will be in progress in Del Monte, Calif. It is expected that a large attendance will be attracted to Del Monte by the various aspects of transmission and hydroelectric power offered in the program, as well as by the generous time alloted for enjoying sports and the unusual beauty of scenery afforded by that part of the country."
"Vancouver. — October 19, 1923. Dinner meeting to receive report of Pacific Coast Convention of the A. I. E. E. November 9, 1923. Speakers: Messrs. Youill and Moe. December 7th. Plans yet to be made."
"O. C. Merril, General Chairman of the American Section of the World Power Conference, reported, upon his return from Europe, that the plans for the conference were being matured, as a result of the very satisfactory arrangements which he and Mr. Challies, Chairman of the Canadian Committee, had made. It has been decided to hold the conference, beginning July 1, next, and continue for 7 to 10 days, according to the development of the program."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Atlanta. — August 30, 1923. Election of officers for the ensuing year, as follows: C. L. Emerson, Chairman; F. B. Davenport, Vice-Chairman; H. N. Pye, Secretary-Treasurer; H. E. Bussey and G. K. Selden, Members of the Board of Directors. Attendance 25."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. All members are urged to notify Institute headquarters promptly of any change in mailing or business address, thus relieving the member of needless annoyance and also assuring the prompt delivery of Institute mail, the accuracy of our mailing records, and the elimination of unnecessary expense for postage and clerical work."
"The Engineering Societies Employment service is conducted by the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available to their membership, and maintained by the joint contributions of the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. These announcements will not be repeated, except upon request received after an interval of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau. Notice for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City. Such notices will not be acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will usually appear in the issue of the following month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A bulletin of engineering positions available will be published and will be available to members of the societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions. It is believed that a successful service can be developed if these contributions average $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less), three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, and forwarded to the Employment service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled, will not be forwarded."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Ever since three-phase distribution has been known, a controversy has been going on with respect to the relative merits of grounded and ungrounded neutral. The inability of locating and isolating a ground fault is the chief disadvantage of the ungrounded neutral system, this being the reason why lately the grounded neutral has been given preference. The purpose of the so-called ground selector is to provide means to permit the selective clearance of a ground fault in an ungrounded neutral system. The device thus eliminates the mentioned disadvantage and raises the ungrounded neutral system to the same operating standard as the grounded neutral system, retaining at the same time the many other advantages inherent to the ungrounded system. The paper describes the functioning of the ground selector and compares in detail the two systems. Two ground selector installations on largely different systems are described and the practical operating results are reported and discussed. The conclusion is reached that the ungrounded neutral system equipped with a ground selector combines the advantages of the ungrounded and grounded neutral systems without being afflicted with their respective disadvantages."
"From the earliest forms of telephone switchboards to the modern types, the development of the switchboard has been marked by the increasing use of automatic methods to supplement the manual operation wherever this would result in better service to the public or more efficient operation. In addition to all that has been done in developing and introducing automatic operations with manual switchboards, it has been found desirable and practicable to go further in the direction of introducing automatic operation in the telephone plant and a machine switching system has been developed in which the bulk of the connections are established without the aid of an operator. The complexity of a large metropolitan area and the exacting requirements which a machine switching system must meet are outlined briefly, and the system which has been developed to meet these requirements is described. The application of the system to a typical large metropolitan area and the means provided for permitting its gradual introduction into the existing plant are discussed."
"WHENEVER electrification of steam railways on a large scale is advocated, one of the principal arguments advanced is the large saving in fuel sure to result therefrom; in fact, this was the initial point of attack in the early days of the art — the early 1890's, for example — long before overtime of train and engine crews had become the very real expense in train operation it is today. Many attempts to get accurate information on locomotive fuel consumption have been made during the intervening years, for comparison with known electric locomotive performance."
"This series of articles is presented with a riew of acquainting the electrical engineer with the composition of porcelain, the raw materials, and processes employed in its manufacture, and with the structure and the physical properties of the finished product. The principles underlying the art will be discussed as well as the reasons for using certain materials or certain processes. Recent developments in porcelain for automotive purposes have clearly demonstrated that the transmission porcelain of the future will be an improvement over that of the porcelain of today, provided however, that the consumer of transmission porcelain will be willing to pay the increased cost, or provided the manufacturer will be able to lower his cost on the improved product when sufficiently developed. The fact that the porcelain used in transmission work today would make only inferior spark plugs makes it safe to predict this future improvement in transmission porcelain. The present article deals briefly with the history of porcelain and its definition. Generally porcelain is made of a mixture of ground feldspar, a mineral which melts to glass and makes the porcelain vitreous when fired; clay which makes it possible to form the unfired porcelain and have it retain its shape; and fine silica sand or quartz which acts as a filler or non-plastic material. These three materials are mentioned several times before they are described in detail but this brief description is sufficient for the present. The beginning of a description of ceramic raw materials is given. The writer wishes to express his thanks to Mr. A. V. Bleininger for his cooperation and suggestions in preparing these articles. Also to Prof. Albert Peck for his assistance in preparing and discussing the photomicrographs."
"THIS paper aims to present the problems encountered in the development of electrical systems for amplifying the voices of public speakers and music; and to describe the equipment as brought to a commercial state and now in use in the United States and various other countries."
"The combination of the public address system and the telephone line makes it possible for a speaker to address simultaneously audiences located at a number of places. This paper discusses various applications of this combination, states the requirements for the lines, shows the circuit arrangements used and describes some of the important operating features. A description is given of the system used on Armistice Day, 1921, when large audiences at Arlington, New York and San Francisco joined in the ceremonies attending the Burial of the Unknown Soldier at the National Cemetery at Arlington, Virginia. The application of the public address system apparatus and methods to radio broadcasting is also briefly discussed."
"THE Chairman of your Program Committee wrote to me that he wished my talk to be a popular presentation which would interest the members who came to the meeting and also a profound discussion which could be read with profit by the eighteen thousand members who decided not to come. Either alternative is a large order and the two are mutually inconsistent, so I am not likely to satisfy anybody. Your Chairman evidently forgot that, if I were to tell you all the things which I consider interesting about the theory of colloid chemistry, I should keep going for several weeks. I give my unfortunate class at least twenty-five lectures at full speed on this very point. I am going to compromise tonight by telling you of a few things which might reasonably be of interest to electrical engineers, without making any attempt to cover the whole ground."
"Case II. Signal at an Angle to Antenna, Zero Loss Antenna. So far we have considered only signal waves traveling in the direction of the antenna. To calculate the directive properties of the antenna, we must find the effect of a signal of the same wave length and intensity coming at an angle to the antenna. In the first place there will be a difference in the electromotive force E0 induced in a unit length of wire. In Fig. 30a we imagine ourselves looking down at two horizontal wires, each of unit length, situated in the midst of a signal wave whose magnetic lines are shown as dotted lines in the figure. Only the magnetic lines in a very thin layer immediately over the plane of the wires are shown. These magnetic lines have a horizontal movement indicated by the arrow, and a downward movement resulting from the forward tilt of the wave front. The horizontal movement causes no cutting of the conductor. Owing to the downward movement, the wires will be cut by all of the lines which cross them in the figure. The numbers of magnetic lines which cross wires No. 1 and No. 2 are in the ratio 1 to cos θ, and the induced electromotive force per unit length will be in the same ratio. Another point of view is illustrated in Fig. 30b, in which we imagine ourselves as looking at the ends of the magnetic lines, which now appear as dots. Here the same two wires are shown, and the actual direction of motion of the magnetic lines is indicated. Only those lines within the region a will cut wire No. 2 which appears in this projection as A′ − B′, while all those in region b will cut No. 1, and the ratio of a to b is again cos θ. We shall therefore multiply by cos θ to take account of the difference in induced electromotive force. That is to say if a signal coming in the direction of the antenna induces E0 volts per kilometer, a signal of the same intensity coming from an angle θ to the antenna will induce E0 cos θ volts per kilometer."
"Tube Mill Characteristics THE greatest problem presented in the application of the electric motor for the individual drive of the tube mill is found in the fairly large torque required to bring it from rest up to its full operating speed. When once up to speed the load is practically constant, and only slight pulsations in the power requirements can be noticed."
"The vector method is just as useful in solving problems involving transient conditions in electric circuits as it has proved to be when the currents and potentials are steady sinusoids. As far as the writer is aware, the vector method for determining transients in rotating electric machines was first used by L. Dreyfus. Previously the method had been applied to fixed combinations of resistances, inductances and capacitances by Kennelly and others. By making certain assumptions that are, however, quite reasonable in many cases, the transient currents in nearly all of the common types of electric machinery are damped sinusoids. Fortunately the damping is exponential and is thus readily accounted for. It is interesting to trace the development of the method. In the solution of all problems in direct currents the potentials, currents, and circuit constants are real numbers. In the corresponding problem in which the applied potentials are steady sinusoids, these quantities are all represented by complex numbers. In all other respects the working out of the solution is identical with that followed in the direct-current case. When the currents are damped sinusoids, they and the potentials and the circuit constants can still be represented by complex numbers. There is this difference, however; the vectors which represent the currents and potentials shrink exponentially as they rotate and the values of the circuit constants depend not only upon the frequency of the current, but also upon its rate of shrinking. Again the solution of any problem follows the same procedure that would the corresponding one in which the currents are steady sinusoids. In both the steady and damped sinusoidal cases the circuit constants depend upon the angular velocity of the vectors which represent the currents. In the former, the angular velocity is purely imaginary while in the latter it is complex, the real part being the rate at which the current vector shrinks and the imaginary portion, its angular velocity. In electric machinery in which rotating magnetic fields are produced, these fields shrink exponontially as they rotate when the currents are damped sinusoids. If these rotating magnetic fields are represented by vectors, the vectors will have a complex angular velocity just as do the currents. The e. m. f. which is produced by a steady sinusoidal variation of flux lags the flux by 90 degrees, whereas if the flux variation is a damped sinusoid, the angle of lag is less than 90 degrees, depending upon the damping. The mathematical relation, however, is the same, vis., the e. m. f. is proportional to the negative of the product of the flux and its angular velocity. It is then readily appreciated that the form of the solution for the transient state is the same as that which is used for the steady state. Before the method can be expected to give as accurate results as are obtained when predicting the steady operation, considerable experimental data must be obtained in order to determine the best methods of measuring the necessary constants, for these may be somewhat different during the transient period than during steady operation."
"It is the intent of this discussion to present, as simply as possible, a logical and fully reliable method for computing the “fixed charge” portion of commodity rate schedules. The hypothesis that the Service plus Quantity principle in rate-making is widely applicable, even far beyond the field of utility rates, emphasizes the necessity for an equitable basis for the computation of both portions of this dual rate structure. Moreover, since the billings of many customers, if computed strictly according to the cost of service, would be only negligibly affected by their Quantity use, the Service portion of their charge becomes of prime importance. The widely-used Peak Responsibility method, while undoubtedly a first approximation to the correct procedure, leads at times to gross inequity. The Eisenmenger method, while technically exact, is tedious in application. The Multiple Plant method, here presented for the first time, is believed to combine the virtues and eliminate the vices of both these methods. Moreover, since the Service plus Quantity principle was found to control in so remote a field as the freight schedule for car lots of logs, it is entirely possible that the simple and equitable analysis outlined below, may, with proper adaptations, become standard in a wide variety of commodity rate-schedule computations."
"The remark is often heard to the effect that daylight costs nothing. This is true outdoors, but obviously it costs considerably to enjoy daylight indoors. One of the writers has discussed this subject elsewhere∗ quite a number of years ago, with the hope that architects would give attention to this aspect of natural lighting. Inasmuch as no data on the subject have appeared, the writers undertook the task of computing the costs of natural lighting as at present practised and to compare these costs with those of adequate electric lighting."
"In the course of the life tests conducted on stationary racks, arcs have been found to occur in a small percentage of gas filled tungsten filament lamps subjected to normal burning."
"Lansing, the capital of Michigan, will be the first city in the United States to have an architecturally uniform system of street lighting units. A comprehensive scheme which will provide eventually for the illumination of every paved street by ornamental, underground-fed standards has been adopted, and the first 350 units are now being installed. The lighting plan was formulated by the writer in consultation with illuminating engineers of the General Electric Company, and was an outgrowth of a general feeling of dissatisfaction with the existing boulevard lighting system which is not only poorly designed but inefficient. It was realized that the time was opportune for a change, while the investment in existing lighting was still comparatively small, involving no great loss by replacement, and before making a substantial additional investment for extending the system, especially since the contemplated extensions included the most important thoroughfares in the city."
"A royal welcome and fine program will be given the visiting members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers at the national convention to be held in Pittsburgh, April 24–26. The local convention committee has been very active, and in cooperation with the Meetings and Papers Committee, has arranged a technical program which should prove attractive to all engineers, aside from the opportunities offered for visits to engineering works in the Pittsburgh industrial district."
"A tentative outline of the June Convention, which will be held at Swampscott, Mass., June 25–29, 1923, was made by the Meetings and Papers Committee at its meeting in New York on Friday, March 23, 1923."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, March 16, 1923."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held in New York, March 16, the report of the Committee of Tellers, giving the result of its canvass of the nomination ballots received for the offices to be filled at the coming annual election, was presented."
"The A. I. E. E. 1923 Year Book is available to members without charge, upon application to the secretary, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y."
"The Standards Committee of the A. I. E. E. has undertaken a thorough revision of the A. I. E. E. Standards. The work of revision is being carried out on the basis of certain principles as follows:"
"For some time past, there has been a growing feeling in the electrical field that the several electrical associations engaged in standardization work should cooperate in presenting a single set of electrical standards to the A. E. S. C. for approval as American Standards. The lack of generally accepted American standards has been a considerable handicap to this country in connection with international standardization, and has undoubtedly increased the difficulty of selling electrical products abroad."
"As announced above, work has been under way for some time on the preparation of standards for Control Apparatus."
"The Executive Committee of Geographical District No. 1 (North Eastern) held a meeting in Worcester, Mass., on March 14 and approved the following rules of procedure relative to the prize which the committee voted last December should be awarded to the author of the most worthy paper presented at a meeting of any Section in the District during the year:"
"In a letter of March 8 from the Executive Secretary of the Federated American Engineering Societies the Institute and its individual members are requested to cooperate in any way possible with the execution of a plan for the relief of the coal shortage particularly as it applies to the domestic situation. John Hays Hammond, Chairman of U. S. Coal Commission, calls attention to a plan devised by a member of the Commission for securing the storage of domestic coal. Under the plan an employee submits to his company, prior to April 1, an estimate of his winter fuel needs. Full payment for the coal to be made by the company at any time delivery is effected, which delivery is at the option of the retail dealer during the six months beginning with April. The company is reimbursed by deducting the cost of the coal from the employee's salary. The deductions, however, are spread in equal installments over the six months period. The employer can thus see to it that the dealer delivers the maximum practicable amount of coal, at the best price and early in the season. Employees, many of whom are accustomed to buy in very small quantities and at maximum prices, make substantial savings and are assured of sufficient coal when needed."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 1923 Year Book of the A. E. S. C., which has just come off the press, shows that great progress has been made during the last year in standardization projects affecting electrical industries. Of the thirty-five standards thus far approved by the A. E. S. C., the following eleven are of special interest to the electrical industries: National Electrical Code; Electrical Safety Code; Code for Electricity Meters; Automobile Headlighting Specifications; Code of Lighting Factories, Mills and other Work Places; Safety Code for the Protection of the Heads and Eyes of Industrial Workers; Illuminating Engineering Nomenclature and Photometric Standards; Methods for Battery Assay of Copper; Specifications for Electrolytic Copper Wire Bars, Cakes, Slabs, Billets, Ingots and Ingot Bars; Specifications for Lake Copper Wire Bars, Cakes Slabs, Billets, Ingot and Ingot Bars; and Specifications for Soft or Annealed Copper Wire."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Walker G. Wylie, M. D., gynecologist and famous surgeon, died on March 13, 1923, at his home in New York City. He was born at Chester, N. C. in 1849. At the age of sixteen he enlisted in the Confederate Army, and after the war entered the University of South Carolina. Later he received his medical degree from Bellevue Medical College. The next year he studied hospital construction and nurses training abroad and it was from his reports that the first nurses school was established in the United States. Dr. Wylie was a member of the New York Academy of Medicine, the New York County Medical Society, the New York Pathological Society, the New York Obstetrical Society, the American Gynecological Society, the Royal Society of Medicine in London and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Provides a notice of recent events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"14 years' experience electrical and magnetic measurements, and general technical and research work, desires position in charge of work, or as assistant to party in charge. Have held responsible positions in past. Specialized considerably on magnetic materials, (2 years at steel mills; past member A. S. T. M. committee magnetic properties; etc.) Age 36, single, technical education, minimum salary start $175.00. Eastern locality preferred. E-4199."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The first crossing of the Carquinez Straits by a high-tension transmission line was one of the stepping stones in the progress of the electrical industry. The pioneers built well, and the march of events, with its demands for greater and greater blocks of power, found the crossing structure adequate for the new requirements. Constructed in 1901 for one 60,000-volt circuit with a spare cable, two additional cables were added in 1914, making two 60,000-volt circuits. In 1922, coincident with the replacement of 60,000-volt pole lines by a 110,000-volt tower line, the crossing was modified to allow 110,000 volts on the two circuits, thus again practically doubling the transmission capacity. The original design made use of insulating materials in compression. A clear record for over 20 years led the company to adhere to the compression type in the reinsulation for the higher voltage, thus making the crossing unique among long high-voltage spans. The methods by which some of the problems were solved, the hinged anchor structure, the sturdy insulated support for the towers, the movable top for the middle tower support to allow for relative motion and the supplementary cable system to obviate crystallization at the supports, are described in the paper."
"This paper covers the design of the 110-kv. transmission line to transmit energy from the new Oak Grove development of the Portland Railway, Light and Power Company to the city of Portland, Oregon, a distance of 54 miles. The company now has three hydroelectric developments aggregating 52,000 kw. supplied from the same general watershed from which energy is transmitted to Portland over five 60-kv. circuits, only one of which is on steel towers. The problem was to design a transmission line to most economically handle the three 30,000-kv-a. units as installed at the new development and to tie in with the existing transmission system. The following factors were considered in determining the design: 1. Transmission voltage 2. Conductor capacity 3. Maximum conductor tension 4. Assumed maximum mechanical loading conditions 5. Type of supporting structures Consideration was also given to the physical characteristics of the country through which the line must be built. For 14.8 miles the line will be located in the United States Government Forest Reserve, which is very heavily timbered, and accordingly cost of clearing will be very high, averaging $15,000 a mile, even after credit for merchantable timber is allowed. This fact, outside of other considerations, required a minimum number of circuits. To reduce clearing costs as much as possible, the line was located along the river gorge necessitating 55 angles, a few as great as 60 deg., and 28 river crossing spans, vearying from 400 to 1800 feet. After considering various types of supporting structures, three types of double circuit, heavy rigid steel towers were decided upon as follows: Type A towers, to be used on tangents up to 800-foot spans, also on curves up to 10 deg., the spans not exceeding 500 feet; suspension insulators to be used. Type B towers, to be used on tangents up to 1700-foot spans, also on curves from 8 to 30 deg., the spans not exceeding 800 feet for the larger curves; suspension insulators to be used. Type C towers, to be used at dead-ends and curves over 30 deg. Towers are designed for 250,000, cir. mil. copper conductors, and maximum loading conditions of one-half inch of ice and eight pounds per square foot wind pressure at 0 deg. fahr. were assumed. Each type of tower was designed to withstand the maximum loading conditions plus 50 per cent without exceeding the elastic limit of the steel, and the towers were subjected to an actual field test. Special steel having an elastic limit of 45,000 pounds per square inch and a minimum elongation of 22 per cent was used in the towers. In order to reduce the number of insulators and deadend positions, use was made of brackets pivoted to the cross arms so that they would be free to swing in the line but rigid across the line. 12-inch brackets are provided for the Type A towers on 8 deg. curves and 24-inch brackets on Type B towers with 30 deg. curves so as to maintain a three-foot clearance between the conductor and steel on that side of the tower where the conductors pull the insulator strings up and toward the cage. The use of these brackes reduced the total cost of the insulators and hardware fully 25 per cent. Tables are included giving resultant simultaneous loading and weights and dimensions for each type of tower."
"It is the intention of this paper to bring out some of the special conditions which affect the operation and design of machinery for long transmission lines and the discussion is confined largely to waterwheel generators and synchronous condensers. Under the subject of generators, the following points are discussed: Leading current drawn by transmission lines and its effect upon the stability and mechanical design of generators; characteristic curves of generators designed for operation at leading power factor; special winding connections which increase the capacity of generators for leading power factor operation for temporary periods without increasing their weight and cost; description of general construction and ventilation of a 28,000-kv-a. vertical waterwheel generator. The following points are discussion with reference to synchronous condensers: Operation at leading and lagging power factor and how it affects the stability cost and weight of the machines; special winding connections and their effect on stability; general mechanical construction with particular reference to damper winding design and the use of sheet steel end bells; the importance of losses and a curve showing values it is possible to obtain on machines with the latest improvements in design; starting kv-a. and how it may be minimized by the use of oil pressure in the bearings."
"This paper is a report on the Alabama Power Company's operating experience with a Petersen Earth Coil installed between the neutral and ground of a 120-mile, 44,000-volt, 3-phase, star-connected, 60-cycle system. A Petersen coil is essentially an inductive reactance of such value as to maintain resonance with the capacitance of the system to ground at the fundamental system frequency. With a ground on one wire the current through the fault is reduced to such a low value as to prevent maintenance of an arc. Therefore, on the assumption that the majority of phase-to-ground short circuits start as insulator flashovers, the installation of such a device as a Petersen coil which would snuff out flashover arcs should considerably reduce the number of interruptions to the line. By means of proper relaying, cases of trouble outside of the operating sphere of the Petersen coil, such as phase-to-phase short circuits and solid grounds have also been successfully taken care of. Previous to the installation of this coil numerous interruptions to service were experienced on this system during lightning storms, which are unusually severe in the territory covered by these lines. This system, therefore, offers an ideal location for a trial installation of the coil. Since the installation of the coil the number and duration of interruptions due to lightning flashovers have been reduced by 88.5 per cent and 94 per cent respectively. Several doubtful actions, however, have occurred during switching operations, indicating the presence of unusual phenomena. By proper relaying it is hoped to prevent the recurrence of such action. Further tests are also contemplated to investigate the unusual phenomena accompanying certain operating conditions."
"This paper describes the troubles experienced with different types of current-limiting reactors installed on the Public Service Electric Company's system. Many of these failures are attributed to poor mechanical construction. The author states that the experience gained has resulted in much better designs. The conclusion is reached that if the present day reactors are properly chosen with regard to thermal capacity they are very reliable."
"Several meetings have been held during the past month to discuss the revision of Circular 56 of the Bureau of Standards on Standards for Electronic Service. The Bureau has had the benefit of criticism by members of a committee representing the National Electric Light Association and the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies. A final meeting was held in New York on July 19, and all points have been mutually agreed upon. A new edition of the circular will undoubtedly have the full endorsement of the organizations representing the electric light and power industry."
"An electrical loud speaker is a device applied to radiophone reproduction of speech and music. This paper brings out the mechanical and electrical essentials of this device and gives a short description of present-day forms and methods used in developing and testing new types. A technical analysis of one successful form brings out the various factors involved and the means used for achieving satisfactory results. These results are illustrated by appropriate test curves. The paper is a record of results obtained through technical analysis of this apparatus and is intended to direct attention to the necessity of similar analysis continued and extended."
"THE Subcommittee on Grounding of Systems of the Protective Devices Committee was created on October 14th, 1921, “To Study the special problems and applications of grounding of systems.” In order to fulfill its function, the subcommittee prepared an inquiry on the general subject of grounding which was sent out through its members to representative operating companies throughout the United States and Canada."
"A theory of the general artificial electric line circuit, including the T-and π-lines as its special case, is here laid down. This theory is applied to the determination of a simple method for designing a compensated π-type artificial electric line whose electrical characteristics can be more closely Lapproximated to the actual uniform line than a common T-line or π-line, when required to work, not at a single frequency, but over a definite range of frequencies."
"Methods are described by which base metals may be sealed to and through glass, even though the metal and glass have different coefficients of thermal expansion. The method consists in providing a large surface of contact between the glass and the metal, and in so proportioning the metal that the stresses resulting from the difference in coefficients of expansion are less than the ultimate strength of the joint between glass and metal. Four different types of seals are discussed: First, the flattened wire seal for small electrical conductors. Second, the ribbon seal for special purposes. Third, the disk seal for commercial manufacture of seals for carrying currents of the order of 100 amperes. Fourth, the tube seal in which metal and glass tubing are joined together."
"Formulas are given, with examples, for the following new problems in proximity effect resistance ratio: Thin Tube and Infinitesimal Wire; Two Thin Tubes in Return Circuit; Two Thin Tubes in Parallel; Insulated Cable Sheaths in Single-Phase Circuit; Cable Sheaths in Three-Phase Circuit, Flat Spacing; Finite Wire and Infinitesimal Wire; Two Wires in Parallel; Three-Phase Circuit, Triangular Spacing, Three-Phase Circuit, Flat Spacing. Reduction formulas for Bessel functions, suitable for skin effect problems, are tabulated, and a table of values of the first five orders, for use in drawing curves, is given."
"C. L. Fortescue: Referring to Mr. Frederick Terman's paper on Measurement of Transients, this question of the Measurement of Transients of transmission lines and in apparatus connected to transmission lines, is becoming of great importance. However, there are surges of several kinds; we may have surges of very high voltage, which last for a very short time, so short that they do not do any damage."
"J. M. Labberton: Mr. Hibbard disposes of the first two methods he mentions by saying they are more complicated, which is true, and for this reason they will probably not come into popular favor."
"J. L. R. Hayden: The great value of Messrs. Phelps and Tanzer's paper is its method of indicating the gradual deterioration of a cable insulation. This makes it possible to determine the approach of a failure sufficiently, so that the cable can be broken down out of service by high-potential test, and repaired before it gives trouble in service."
"R. D. Evans: The proper method of making measurements on polyphase circuits has been the subject of considerable discussion within the last few years. With balanced circuits, the methods were rather generally accepted, but this was not the case with unbalanced circuits. It is recognized that if the definitions and methods of measurement for polyphase circuits were to have any assured standing, they should cover the unbalanced circuit. Unbalanced polyphase circuits were not well understood, and consequently there has been a lag in the development of corresponding measuring systems."
"D. W. Roper: The designers of the arrester described in Mr. Atherton's paper, having the courage of their convictions that they had a real lightning arrester, were willing to submit it to the scrutiny of the “laboratory” that we have in Chicago, for comparing the performances of various types of arresters."
"R. L. Jones: I believe we would all find ourselves in substantial agreement with Dr. Thomas in respect to the first four conditions which he sets down as those which must be met by a high quality telephonic reproducing apparatus. It is to be regretted, however, that he does not give data to show how well the glow discharge transmitter fulfills them: data as to its physical efficiency; frequency response characteristics; and its load capacity, or the degree of linearity with which it responds over a wide range of intensities. The general idea of a telephone transmitter depending upon ionic discharge is old,1 but this is the first time, to my knowledge, that a telephone transmitter depending upon the phenomenon has been utilized practically. The world is eager for better tools of communication, and the impetus lately given by radio and public address systems stimulates interest. If the glow discharge transmitter fulfils even a part of the fundamental conditions better than other available types, it is probable, in spite of the high-voltage supply and other operating disadvantages, that it will have a certain field of use. In view of the present lack of data showing its performance under the variety of actual conditions, however, it remains for the future to reveal what place it has."
"V. Karapetoff: On the second page of Dr. Manneback's paper, on the top of the second column, three conclusions are drawn. The first conclusion is that: “An electric disturbance, i.e., a discontinuity of voltage or current, is always propagated along any line at the constant speed $V = 1: \\sqrt{L.C.}$” And then he adds: “whether there is resistance and leakance or not”. I am not sure that this is correct; it seems to me that the velocity of propagation depends on the presence of resistance and leakance and is thereby reduced."
"J. R. Craighead: The oscillograph shown represents a combination of elements which have been considered necessary for oscillographic work under most conditions. There is a distinct advantage in getting as many of these as possible into a single device, and making that device as nearly portable as possible."
"F. S. Dellenbaugh, Jr.: The extreme simplicity with which complex circuits may be worked down to a simple circuit is really extraordinary. As you will notice in the bibliography, Dr. Kennelly was the first to publish “The Equivalence of Triangles and Three-pointed Stars,” in other words, star-delta transformations in 1899, and it has been a little over 23 years that this process has been known and published, and yet, commercially, it appears to be used very little."
"Two radical departures have been made in the installation of a new street-lighting system in Kansas City, Mo. These are the removal of all street-lighting equipment in each of seven substations, and the placing of a large part of the lamp circuits underground, a special cable buried in the earth without ducts save at street crossings being used. Ducts are used at street crossings to facilitate repairs in case of cable burnouts or other breakdowns. The removal of all of the usual series transformer and switching equipment from the substations means the saving of a great amount of valuable space and in some cases obviated the necessity of special substations for the street-lighting equipment. This in itself has meant a material saving in expense. The placing of the series circuits underground has enabled the use of a simple and attractive ornamental post on streets where there are no street-car lines. On the streets with street-car lines and steel trolley poles, the conductors being carried overhead. The plans which were followed made possible the avoidance of the unsightly wiring and lamp supports that overhead construction usually involves. These results have been attained because it was possible to start with a comparatively clean slate, much of the previous street lighting having been with gas."
"This article contains several excerpts taken from papers presented at recent meetings of the San Francisco and Los Angeles Sections by Dr. Joseph A. Jeffery on “Modern Methods of Firing High-Voltage Porcelain.” The pyrochemical reactions which take place during firing have been described1. The firing is done to bring about a complete vitrification of the body to form porcelain. Complete vitrification means no porosity. Firing temperatures are measured by thermocouples, pyrometric cone fusions or measurement of shrinkage bars made of porcelain and withdrawn from the kilns at intervals. Pyrometric cones and shrinkage bars show the effect of time as well as temperature; however, cones are preferable as they can be observed through peep-holes while bars must be withdrawn and measured. The two classes of kilns used in firing porcelain are Periodic and Continuous. Periodic kilns have a fuel efficiency of only about 5 per cent, while the continuous kilns not only have a fuel efficiency several times greater than this but also are more efficient as regards production per cubic foot of space required, convenience of operation, labor cost, quality of ware, etc. In firing a periodic kiln the entire contents and inside kiln walls are slowly heated up on a definite time temperature schedule. The air supplied to the burners and fire-boxes is not preheated but is cold, and as soon as the hot gases pass through the ware they are exhausted to the atmosphere and wasted. The temperature of the exhaust gases is only a few degrees lower than that of the ware in the kiln, being anywhere from 1100 deg. cent, to 1400 deg. cent. (2012–2552 deg. fabr). In firing the kilns the heat goes into the kiln through throats and then passes up through the mass of ware conveniently stored in bungs of earthenware containers (saggers). The ratio of the number of saggers close to the fire-boxes where the flames are hottest and longest as compared to the saggers farther away is great and as a result there is no way of giving the ware the same heat treatment in all parts of the kiln. In continuous kilns the car tunnel kiln is used more often than the compartment kiln. There are two main types, direct-fire and muffle. The thermal efficiency of both is obtained in the same manner. These kilns are from three hundred feet to three hundred and fifty feet long and of relatively small cross-section, being about four feet by six feet and so arranged that the temperature at any cross-section is practically the same. The cross-sectional area of a periodic kiln is approximately twelve times as great as the continuous kiln. In these kilns a continuous train of cars of ware passes through in one direction on a definite time schedule. The cars and ware are cold when entering the kiln and are heated up gradually and evenly as they approach the center of the hot zone where the temperature is held constant while the thermal reactions proceed to completion. Then the cars of ware leaving the hot zone are gradually cooled down until they are withdrawn at the exit end cool enough to handle. The air for combustion passes in a counterwise direction to that in which the cars travel. This air absorbs heat from the ware on the cars and not only cools them but also becomes hotter and hotter itself, so that by the time it has reached the fire-boxes or burners it is practically at the same temperature as the firing ware itself. The superheated air combines with the fuel, thus giving a great deal more heat efficiency than it would be possible to get from cold air. These products of combustion continue to travel in the same direction, that is, counterwise to the direction in which the cars go and thus give up practically all their heat to the incoming ware, leaving the kiln relatively cool. The muffle kiln has an added advantage in that it is arranged to keep the products of combustion away from the ware and also to create a vertical flow caused by difference in density of hot and cold air. This practically equalizes temperatures from top to bottom."
"The Pacific Coast Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers to be held at Del Monte Hotel, Del Monte, California, promises to be especially good this year on account of the excellent progress made by those who have the affair in hand."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors for the administrative year beginning August 1, was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Thursday, August 2, 1923."
"Under this heading are included news items of the National research council and its activities and summaries of progress made by the research committees of its Division of Enigineering during the current month."
"A conference of the secretaries of national industrial standardizing bodies was held in Switzerland, July third to seventh. Thirteen countries were represented, including all of the more important industrial nations of Europe and America. The sessions were held in Zurich and in Baden."
"Arthur G. Lund died at Chicago, Illinois, July 21, 1923. He was born at Bradford, Yorks, England, in 1880, and after graduating from Victoria University, England, he was employed by J. Parkinson & Son, Yorks, England; British Insulated & Helsby Cables Limited; and Siemens Brothers & Company. In 1912 he came to the United States and was associated with the G. &. W. Electric Specialty Company, of which he has been head of the Sales Engineering Department for the past ten years. He became an Associate of the Institute in 1912."
"Plans for the 1923 Chemical Exposition which will open at the Grand Central Palace, New York, on September 17th and extend for one week, opening daily at noon and closing at 10:00 P. M. are about completed. Outside of the four hundred odd exhibits which are expected by the time the exhibition opens, two other features have been planned for this year. They are a moving picture program of industrial films to be shown each afternoon and evening in a special auditorium for the purpose, and an intensive course in the practical business side of chemical engineering for students in various universities all over the country. Upwards of 200 students have already enrolled for the course at the exposition. About thirty authorities in various fields of chemical engineering will discuss their specialties for the benefit of the students. Prof. W. T. Read of Yale University, is in general charge of the student course feature of the exposition this year."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"The Engineering Societies Employment service is conducted by the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available to their membership, and maintained by the joint contributions of the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. These announcements will not be repeated, except upon request received after an interval of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau. Notice for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City. Such notices will not be acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will usually appear in the issue of the following month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A bulletin of engineering positions available will be published and will be available to members of the societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions. It is believed that a successful service can be developed if these contributions average $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less), three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, and forwarded to the Employment service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled, will not be forwarded."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The problem of operating many of the present day transformers designed and built to function in sizes and under conditions unheard of only a few years ago, is now of prime importance to many of the larger power companies. A statement of one type of the operating troubles encountered in the larger sizes is discussed in this paper and data taken as far as practicable under operating conditions is given. From experience so far gained it is thought that both the autotransformer and the grounded neutral system are here to stay and such problems as they present merit considerable investigation under actual working conditions. The present paper presents rather than solves one type of trouble encountered."
"In the early days of the electric industry when transmission lines were short, power factor control was not considered necessary. At the present time, with transmission lines of 200 miles and more, and with loads whose power factor is very poor owing to the universal use of the induction motor, power factor control is being forced upon the transmission engineer as a necessity if power is to be transmitted economically. By taking a few typical examples of transmission lines, the effect of power factor upon efficiency of transmission is shown very clearly. The most economical line power factor for any ordinary commercial transmission line is shown to vary by a comparatively small per cent and to be slightly less than unity. At the same time there appears a very wide range of load delivered over a line without an undue rise in cost of transmission."
"This paper describes the experiences of the Southern California Edison Company with oil switches on its 60-kv., 150-kv. and 220-kv. systems, with air break switches on its 220-kv. system, with bushings on its 60-kv., 150-kv. and 220-kv. systems, and with lightning arresters on all voltages from 11 kv. up. In some instances the experiences do not lead to unquestionable conclusions. This is particularly true in the case of lightning arresters. More nearly complete information in regard to actual occurrences will aid in drawing definite conclusions."
"The following points are covered in this paper: Inherent characteristics of high-voltage lines and high-voltage transformers. Effect of low power factor load on high-voltage lines as to limiting capacity and uses of condenser for increasing line output and obtaining good voltage control. Characteristics which must be met by generators, condensers and regulating equipment in order to control properly voltage over all operating conditions."
"Megger test results on suspension insulators on the lines of the Great Western Power Company covering records since 1908 giving the percentage of depreciation by districts, viz., mountain, valley and coast conditions; also results covering the different types."
"The designs of transformers for 220-kv. systems do not represent radical departures from designs which have become standard for lower voltages. The solidly grounded neutral system is used and advantage is taken of this to use graded insulation and reduced voltage test. Auto-transformers are used to connect between the 220-kv. system and existing high voltages and are connected star-star with delta tertiary. The tertiary may or may not be used to supply synchronous condensers but it is not used for the supply of power load."
"THE design and manufacture of hydraulic turbine equipment has been very considerably accelerated within the past few years; more particularly since the World War, as the lessons it taught us in regard to diminishing fuel sources and the interruption to fuel supply through labor disturbances, both directly in fuel production and indirectly in its transportation, have stimulated in a very decided manner the investigation and development of the water powers of the nation. The remarkable strides made in the longdistance, high-tension transmission of power have rendered economically available water power sources formerly considered impossible and, particularly, in the West where long distance power transmission and super power zones have now become realities."
"This paper deals with the general problem of providing long distance telephone service on the Pacific Coast. A description of the present toll plant is given and the applications which have been made of recent developments in telephone practise are illustrated. Reference is made to the extensive use which has been made of carrier telephone and telegraph systems, and the many special problems, such as the loading of long toll entrance cables, which these systems introduce, are pointed out. The service to Catalina Island is described to illustrate the changes which are taking place in the communication art. This service was first provided by means of a radio link to which a privacy system was later added. This radio system was later replaced by two submarine cables between the island and the mainland. The mechanical and electrical characteristics of these cables are given, together with a description of the work of laying, which was done principally by the government cable ship, “Dellwood.”"
"Carrier-current communication over transmission lines has been developed to a point where its practicability and value are thoroughly established. This paper discusses several recent developments in apparatus and methods of operation. Carrier-frequency energy flow along the line is discussed briefly to give a mental picture of the electromagnetic and electrostatic conditions existing. Standard 50 and 250-watt apparatus are shown in the illustrations and described briefly."
"ON April 11th, 1923, the Pacific Gas and Electric Company placed in operation a carrier-current telephone system between Pit River Power House No. 1 and Vaca-Dixon substation. This system utilizes the twin-circuit 220,000-volt transmission lines between the two points for a conducting medium and is for use primarily by the operating department in directing the operation of the power houses in the Pit River development together with the transmission lines which carry the energy southward to the distribution center at Vaca-Dixon substation. With the commencement of work on Pit River Power House No. 3 an increasing volume of messages is being received from the construction and auditing departments for transmission to the general offices of the company, and it is already apparent that additional carrier-current telephone sets will be required, one at the base of construction operations for Power House No. 3 and one at Claremont substation in Oakland to relieve the congestion on the wire line between Vaca-Dixon substation and the load dispatcher's office."
"THE disposal of the heat resulting from the electrical and mechanical losses in any electric machine is always an important item to the designer as well as to the operator of the machine. These losses appearing all in the form of heat must be transferred from their source with a temperature gradient not to exceed the maximum safe operating temperatures. These maximum temperatures are limited by the insulation necessary to insulate the windings."
"THE general problem of heat transfer requires a knowledge of the laws of conduction, radiation and convection. In 1822, Fourier gave us the first thoroughly scientific definition of conductivity and reduced the problem of heat conduction to an exact science, with a power and completeness which left little room for extension or improvement even to the present day. The law of radiation was first suggested by Stefan in 1879 as a result of an analysis of some experiments made by Tyndall. In 1884 Boltzman deduced the law theoretically from the principles of thermo-dynamics and electromagnetics. Thus the laws of conduction and radiation have been accurately known for a long time, while the problem of convection has received relatively little study. This fact is surprising when we consider the important part played by convection in almost all cases of heat transfer. A complete mathematical solution of a convection problem would require a knowledge of the hydrodynamic laws of viscous fluids for stream line and turbulent motion, combined with the Fourier equations of heat conduction in a moving medium. At present our lack of the hydrodynamic laws for turbulent motion renders a rigorous solution impossible. Therefore in most of the theoretical work so far attempted the simplifying assumption of an in-viscid fluid has been found necessary. The theoretical results obtained when viscosity is neglected are in general far from the experimental facts. Langmuir's study of the problem showed that the viscosity is a factor of first importance which cannot be neglected. He therefore adopted a film theory as an approximation. The reason for the existence of a film around a hot body may be seen as follows: Consider a horizontal wire maintained at a given temperature in a fluid, the fluid adjacent to the wire will become heated and rise while the cooler fluid of greater density will flow into its place. Thus a convection current is set up by the difference in density between the hot and cold fluid. This condition is usually referred to as free convection. At the surface of the wire the fluid is stationary due to viscosity. As we proceed from the surface of the wire the velocity of the convection currents increase until a distance is reached at which the critical velocity conditions in the fluid are exceeded and the stream line flows bursts into turbulent motion. The discontinuity between the stream line and turbulent motion constitutes the outer boundary of the film. At the inner boundary the fluid has the temperature of the hot surface and at the outer boundary the temperature of the ambient fluid. The actual configuration of the outer boundary is unknown. As an approximation we might assume that it was an eccentric ellipse or cylinder, etc., and determine the size and eccentricity so as to best fit the experimental results. For ease of calculation Langmuir adopted the simplest approximation and assumed that the outer boundary of the relatively stagnant film was a cylinder concentric with the wire. He thus reduced the hopelessly complex problem of convection to one of conduction in the steady state."
"THE theory of the transmission of electricity has been materially advanced through the use of artificial transmission lines in the laboratory."
"It has been suspected for a long time that gaseous ionization in air layers and pockets inside of composite insulation results in deterioration and shortening of the life of the insulation. Experiments described in the paper show that within a very short time fibrous insulation exposed to such ionization rapidly loses its mechanical and electrical properties. Mica is shown to be practically immune from this type of deterioration. The outer paper wrappers of the armature bars of high-voltage generators frequently show after operation, the presence of numerous small holes in those portions within the slot. These holes apparently do not penetrate beyond the first layer of mica. Experiments are performed indicating that these holes are due to the slow oxidation of the most vulnerable fibers in the insulation, due to the presence of ionization of the air layer between tooth and coil side. The experiments indicate methods for limiting the volume and extent of such pitting. The influence of ionization and spark discharge on mica is studied qualitatively in some detail, and the results indicate that mica is practically immune from uniform layers of ionization in a thin air film. The most dangerous condition for mica is a spark discharge playing over its surface. Such sparks fasten on any surface flaws, leading to splintering and ultimate breakdown. The worst condition for mica is the presence of an isolated discharge point on one side in relation to a fairly wide conducting area on the other side of the insulation containing the mica. Under such circumstances mica is completely disintegrated within a short time at voltages in the neighborhood of 40 kilovolts with air gaps in the neighborhood of a 0.5 millimeter."
"The purpose of the investigation was to study the form of the voltage-time and current-time curves, existing in a permeameter circuit, and to reduce the time required for the reversal of the magnetizing current. The permeameters used in the investigation were of the U-shaped yoke type. Oscillograms were taken of the current and of the induced voltage during the opening and also during the reversal of the magnetizing current. The permeameter, with which the investigation was started, was fitted with brass end pieces to support the magnetizing coil. The oscillograms showed that the flux change lagged behind the magnetizing current. In fact, the secondary e. m. f. continued for about one second after the current change was completed. The cause of this lag was found to be due to eddy currents set up in the short-circuited paths provided by the brass end pieces. After these were removed oscillograms showed that the lag in flux behind the magnetizing current was negligible. This brought out clearly the fact that short-circuited paths in which eddy currents may be induced should be avoided in permeameter construction. Two new permeameters were then constructed of the same type; one of these was made with a solid core of silicon steel and the other with a laminated core of the same material. Tests of these showed that use of the laminated core materially reduced the time required for the reversal of the current. Several different types of switches were used for opening and reversing the magnetizing current. The oscillograms showed clearly that a quick-break snap switch operating under oil is superior to other types of switches."
"Since Campbell published his paper in 1910, modifications have been made on the step-by-step telephone equipment. This paper covers a review of the economic development of this system with particular emphasis on the technical development in general. The material is grouped under development of circuits and trunking, mechanical design, manufacturing methods, maintenance improvements and possible future developments. Saving in equipment and trunks is considered under the switching selector repeater, director and frequency selecting connector while the reduction in maintenance cost is shown by the reduced number of troubles per line per month when comparing the newer developments with equipment installed fifteen years ago."
"That the brush is an ever present source of trouble on rotating electrical machinery is evidenced by the back numbers of our technical periodicals which are replete with innumerable articles on the subject. These articles cover practically all problems of material and application excepting that of the geometrical design. It is this phase of the subject that the following paper attempts to give. Undoubtedly these factors of geometrical design are known as they are readily discovered, their relations are relatively simple, but so far as I have been able to find they have not been published. The facts brought out by the following paper are: First, that the upper angle of the brush is a function of the lower angle and the coefficient of friction between the brush and the commutator, second, that the lower angle is a function of the pressure desired against the holder, and third, that the trailing brush has little to justify its use. These three conclusions are based on a design which eliminates a resultant moment acting on the brush which would tend to make it bind in the holder."
"The possibility of obtaining speed adjustment and power factor correction of induction motors by impressing an e. m. f. on the rotor is a subject which has attracted considerable attention in recent years. As compared with the straight polyphase induction motor, the graphical treatment in this case becomes much more involved, if reasonable account is to be taken of all the phenomena. The analytical treatment of the polyphase induction motor is, however, readily extended to the case when an e. m. f. is impressed on the rotor. There appears to be a general impression that in deriving formulas analytically the usual method based on the rotating magnetic field theory is no longer suitable when a voltage is impressed on the rotor, but that it is preferable to resolve the induced e. m. f. in the rotor into two components. This paper is an attempt to show that not only is the rotating field theory still applicable, but that the results can probably be obtained most readily by means of it."
"This paper describes the causes of, and remedies for, the existence of “shaft currents” or “bearing currents” which sometimes flow across the rubbing surfaces of the bearings of electric machinery, thereby gradually damaging the shaft and bearings. Up to the present time the only cause of shaft currents that has attracted any particular attention has been the use of sectionalized stators, and the published discussions have been chiefly confined to synchronous alternators. Fleischman1 and others have shown that sectionalizing causes shaft currents for the reason that the extra reluctance of the joints causes an unequal division of the flux between the clockwise and counter-clockwise paths in the yoke, thus giving a resultant flux linking the shaft. Applying the same method of reasoning used in the case of sectionalizing to the general case of any machine with segmental punchings, the following facts are shown: 1. A principal cause of shaft currents in revolving electric machines is the use of poles and segments in certain ratios. 2. The frequency of the shaft current due to joints in the stator yoke is an odd multiple of the frequency of the stator flux, the frequency of the shaft currents due to rotor joints is an odd multiple of the rotor frequency, and these frequency multiples are determined by the ratios of poles to segments. 3. Machines with 4, 8, 16, 24, 32, etc., poles are especially likely to have shaft currents, and machines with 6, 10, 14, 22, etc., poles are relatively immune. 4. By the proper choice of the number of segments for use with any machine, or by the use of segments with offset dovetails, or both, shaft currents can be effectively eliminated in most cases. The possibilities of shaft currents being caused by homopolar action as the result of magnetic flux flowing in the shaft, or by other means, are discussed, and it is concluded that such causes are seldom important. A possible useful application for the theory of shaft currents in the design of a high-current transformer is mentioned, and the possibility of obtaining multiple frequencies from a stationary transformer in this way is shown to be dependent upon the presence of magnetic saturation. A table of combinations of poles and segments that will cause shaft currents is given, and a bibliography of the subject is appended."
"E. C. Stone: As I understand this lightning situation, the lightning arrester must have large charging capacities. The lightning arrester must choke the dynamic current that may follow from the system. Those two conditions are almost diametrically opposite. However, in very low voltages, by which I mean under four or five thousand the dynamic problem is comparatively simple, and you can hold down the dynamic current following with a low resistance which is not high enough to seriously interfere with your discharge but as you go to the high voltages, the problem of holding back the dynamic current without checking the surge discharge becomes more and more complicated and involves more and more complicated apparatus. At voltages of 150 to 220,000, you have to put so much insulation on to hold the line voltage, that the lightning arrester is not important. I will say that our problem for 234,000 volts is practically solved today by distributing the proper arresters. In that way we can get a high percentage of protection from four thousand volts up to some unknown quantity of 66 or 88 or 110."
"E. W. Kellog: Mr. Nyman has mentioned a series of tests of loud speakers which I think may well be classified into what we might call the engineering tests and the listening tests."
"W. V. Lovell: There are just one or two comments I would like to make on the paper on Transatlantic Radio Telephony, which bring out the need for the development of nomenclature keeping pace with the development of new methods. If we do not keep pace, we are going to have quite a bit of confusion. I don't think that the enterprising people who go ahead and do things ought to hold back until they can get approved language to use."
"J. W. Horton: A comment in connection with the frequency measuring work of the Bureau of Standards may be of interest. From time to time they have transmitted standard frequencies from the radio station at the Bureau. On several occasions these have been compared with our standard as follows: The transmitted wave was received in the usual manner, amplified in a radio frequency amplifier and impressed upon a detector circuit which was loosely coupled to a variable frequency oscillator. This oscillator was adjusted, in accordance with our base frequency, to the frequency scheduled to be transmitted by the Bureau. Any difference between the two sources, one in Washington and the other in New York, appeared as a low frequency in the output of the detector. Comparisons made on frequencies of from 500,000 to 1,000,000 cycles per second showed in no case a difference of more than 2500 cycles. On one occasion, at a frequency of 1,000,000 cycles per second, the observed difference was about 25 cycles, being below the audible range."
"A. Boyajian: I believe one of the puzzling discrepancies, viz., the nature of the wave front, mentioned in this paper is capable of a comparatively simple physical explanation."
"J. F. Peters: I would like to comment on the paper by Professor Dellenbaugh. The performance of a simple transmission line at normal frequency, where the supply is at one end and the load at the other, can be calculated very accurately and with a small amount of labor. When the load or supply is distributed at several points, or there are a number of branches, the matter becomes considerably more complicated and an artificial line may be desirable; it may offer the easiest method of solution. However, the solution of the performance of the transmission line is not the important problem. The important problem is the solution of the transmission line including the rotating machinery; that is, it should include the reactions of the generators and the synchronous condensers that are generally used on high-voltage transmission."
"G. M. Armbrust: Mr. Schurig describes a very practical method for the solution of the most important problems in the design and operation of a transmission system."
"W. V. Lyon: As an introduction to the study of transients in electric machinery, Mr. Doherty's paper should prove interesting, but I am sure that neither Mr. Doherty nor any other serious student of the subject would be satisfied with this approximate solution. There is no doubt that a more careful analysis which does not neglect the dissipated forces is more difficult, but rather than proving a deterrent this difficulty makes the problem more interesting."
"C. W. Bates: At the bottom of page 1031, Prof. Doggett states:"
"C. F. Scott: About fifteen years ago the tungsten lamp was evolving quite rapidly. Mr. Houskeeper and I were associated in those days in the Westinghouse Lamp factory, trying to help along the progress of the lamp."
"W. B. Kouwenhoven: On the fifth page of Mr. Brooks' paper, where he lists the proposed types as portable and switchboard instruments of various grades. I think that it would be advisable to add a third grade under the portable class. This third grade might be known as laboratory instruments. It should include instruments that can be used in rough, ordinary work; something better than an indicator but not a precision instrument. I feel that a sub-classification giving the type of controlling force employed in the instrument would be of value and interest to the user. The controlling forces found in common use in deflection meters are:"
"K. B. McEachron: The pellet arrester represents an extension of the oxide film principle in an ingenious manner. The problem of making, commercially, small pellets of lead peroxide, and coating them with litharge has been solved in a satisfactory manner."
"P. L. Alger: The chief interest of Mr. Bergman's paper is in the commutation of the machine, that is, the chief theoretical interest. Mr. Bergman is building a machine for proper commutation. To get the commutation we must have low reactance and we must have a very definite commutating flux to make the voltage induced by the flux exactly overcome the voltage of the changing current. Unless a machine is very perfectly compensated, you cannot hold that flux just right because when the load changes, the armature reaction makes the neutral point shift so the first thing is to obtain very perfect compensation. Mr. Bergman has done this. Another thing that helps commutation is his distributed field winding, as by this means he has a relatively gradual rise of flux on leaving the neutral, as compared with the salient pole winding."
"R. L. Young: Mr. Sims' paper is of considerable interest to engineers outside of the central station field. I hope that many, if not all, of the more important stations and systems will in time arrange their equipment in the excellent manner outlined in the paper."
"F. B. Jewett: I wish to touch upon a point which Mr. Peek has referred to in his concluding remarks and call attention to the curious phenomena which have been observed from time to time in connection with these very high energy transients, which sometimes occur in connection with lightning discharges."
"Chas. Manneback: I said (top second page of paper) “An electric disturbance, i. e., a discontinuity of voltage or current, is always propagated along any line at the constant speed $v = 1: \\sqrt{LC}$.” I added that “this is true whether there is resistance and leakance or not.” Dr. Karapetoff is not sure that this is correct; it seems to him “that the velocity of propagation depends on the presence of resistance and leakance and is thereby reduced. “This difference in opinions is due, I believe, to the fact that we do not think of the same thing being propagated. The question raised is of great theoretical importance and deserves a careful examination."
"Frank Hodson: I am afraid the discussion on my paper describing in a preliminary way the large eight-electrode Greaves-Etchells furnace, now nearing completion, has resulted only in what might be termed competitive criticism, yet some of the statements are so misleading that they should not be allowed to pass unchallenged."
"A proper lighting system for bowling alleys must accomplish two fundamental and clearly defined objects. The first is to produce a cheerful, bright, and comfortable atmosphere which will serve to attract customers to the alleys. In most cases, bowling alleys are located in basement or ground floor areas and attractive lighting is essential if the very natural disinclination to go below ground is to be entirely overcome."
"An effort is being made to procure for Journal publication advance notices of Section monthly meetings. Throughout the greater part of the year each Section of the Institute holds a monthly meeting, usually in a large industrial center, and in view of the fact that at all times many members of the Institute are traveling on business it is probable that engineers away from home would be glad of opportunities to attend Section meetings when the dates coincide with their visits in these centers."
"Donald McNicol, Chairman of the Publication Committee, in October visited officers of the Chicago, Akron and Milwaukee Sections. In Milwaukee, a special meeting of officers of the section was held for the purpose of discussing various subjects of importance to the Publication Committee and to the section. Present at this meeting were: R. B. Williamson, S. H. Mortenson, Fraser Jeffrey, W. H. Powell, H. W. Cheney and A. K. Birch."
"The Midwinter Convention will be held in Philadelphia February 4–8 and the program has been sufficiently advanced as to indicate a very big and interesting convention. Several features of special valne will add to the interest aroused by the presentation of about forty technical papers which will discuss all phases of the electrical art."
"Birmingham, Alabama will be the location for the Spring Convention of the Institute and the date is April 7th-11th. The hearty cooperation of the local committee in Birmingham with the Meetings and Papers Committee has brought about plans for a program which should attract electrical engineers from all parts of the country."
"As provided in Section 19 of the Institute By-Laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1924, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than twenty-five members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1924. For the conveniences of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available. A member is not limited in the number of candidates he may endorse in this manner."
"A meeting of the Executive Committee of the Northwest geographical district of the Institute was held in Portland, Oregon, on Wednesday afternoon, November 14. Vice-President H. T. Plumb of Salt Lake City, Chairman of the Committee, presided and all Sections in the District were represented, also one of the Student Branches. The Vancouver Section was also represented, in accordance with a suggestion made at the Sections Delegates Conference held at the Annual Convention at Swampscott last June, to the effect that representatives of the Vancouver Section meet with the Executive Committee of the Northwest District and representatives of the Toronto Section meet with representatives of the Northeastern District."
"A meeting of the Executive Committee of the Great Lakes District was held in the Committee Room of the Assembly Chamber of the Wisconsin Legislature, at Madison, Wisconsin, Saturday morning, November 17, 1923."
"The following report has been made, under date of November 17, by the Special Committee on Award of Prizes for papers presented before the Institute during the year 1922:"
"Thomas A. Edison and six of the ten living men to whom the Edison Medal has been awarded were guests of honor at a luncheon given at the Engineers' Club on Friday, November 9, by Mr. Edward D. Adams, Chairman of the Edison Medal Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Others in attendance were the members of the Edison Medal Committee of Award."
"The Carnegie Corporation on October 30th set aside the sum of $108,000 “for the purpose of making possible a study of engineering education under the direction of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education” to be available during the next three years. This realizes a project which has been developing with the Society during the past year and a half. A Development Committee was initially appointed to formulate an answer to the question, “What can the Society do in a comprehensive way to develop, broaden and enrich engineering education?” The Committee recommended the appointment of a Board for conducting an active campaign for the promotion of engineering in the light of the needs of the future as these needs may be developed. A general plan was proposed in which the engineering schools and engineering societies would be called upon to take an active part. The plan was submitted to the schools and received cordial endorsement. The project was then presented to Dr. Henry S. Pritchett of the Carnegie Corporation under whose direction a former study of engineering education was undertaken. This, was the outcome of a movement inaugurated by the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education continued by a joint committee from various societies in which the A. I. E. E. was represented; the result was the Report by Dr. C. R. Mann, issued five years ago."
"Expressions of appreciation of Dr. Steinmetz and his work have been published nationwide in the daily press and in the engineering and scientific fields. The A. I. E. E., probably closer to him than any other organization, most keenly feels the loss of its famous Past President. In addition to the official action taken by the Board of Directors at its meeting of October 26th, as outlined in the November JOURNAL, the various Sections of the Institute have individually recorded their respect and admiration in resolutions adopted at local meetings. As an example of such a resolution the following is typical."
"The attention of the membership of the A. I. E. E. in the United States is again called to the fact that the Board of Directors of the Institute has agreed to the holding of a referendum of the A. I. E. E. when the Peace Plan finally selected by the Jury of Award is made known probably early in January 1924. Complete information relative to the Peace Award was published in the November Journal. Sincere cooperation by the membership is requested. Every member should give the plan earnest consideration, cast his vote and do so without delay after the receipt of the plan, ballot, etc."
"The first three months of operation of the Employment Service, under the new plan announced in the August Journal, gives the general impression that the new features have won friends and promise ultimate success when the plan has had opportunity to be developed."
"Boston. — December 11, 1923. Subject: “Common Sense and Mathematics in Engineering.” Speaker: R. E. Doherty, General Electric Company."
"The Hydraulic Test Code, the first to be completed of sixteen codes in course of revision by the Committee on Power Test Codes, has been published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers."
"The National exposition of power and mechanical engineering will open at 2:00 p. m. on Monday, December 3, in the Grand Central Palace, New York. On the following days of the week the Exposition will open at noon and will close each day at 10:00 p. m."
"The conference of mayors and other city officials of New York State at its last meeting authorized the appointment of a committee to study street lighting and make recommendations for more efficient and more economical lighting. The Empire State Gas and Electric Association was asked to cooperate and name two members of the committee to work with the two named by the conference and the fifth member to be an expert of a manufacturing organization. The engineers named by the conference were Mr. A. E. Fisher, consulting engineer of the City of Rochester and Prof. Rich D. Whitney, head of the department of Electrical Engineering at Syracuse University and Consulting Engineer, Bureau of Gas and Electricity, City of Syracuse. Those named by the association were Mr. A. F. La Comtse of the Brooklyn Edison Co., Brooklyn, N. Y. and Mr. W. C. Pearce, engineer of the Syracuse Lighting Co., Syracuse, N. Y. The fifth member is Mr. A. B. O'Day of the Harrison, N. J. works of the General Electric Co."
"The next step to be taken by the F. A. E. S. in the movement for the reorganization of the Department of the Interior, as outlined briefly in the November Journal, is the summoning by the American engineering council of a National Conference on Public Works to meet in Washington on Wednesday, January 9, 1924. This conference will be one of a series of events lasting a week and will be attended by delegates from more than 200 national, state and local societies representing engineers, architects, constructors, manufacturers, chemists, geologists, economists, and business men."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Akron. — October 26, 1923. Engineers of the Ohio Insulator Co. gave short talks and demonstrations on “Properties of Good Porcelain and Commercial Insulator Tests, with Examples Showing the Ability of Modern Insulators to Withstand Severe Conditions.” Mr. A. O. Austin, the principal speaker, was assisted by Messrs. Ray Higgins, who spoke on the “Ceramics of Insulators;” O. G. Calland, who spoke on “Inspection;” and Ralph Higgins, who explained the electrical connections of the equipment used in the high-voltage laboratory demonstrations, Attendance 350."
"The Engineering Societies Employment service is conducted by the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available to their membership, and maintained by the joint contributions of the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. These announcements will not be repeated, except upon request received after an interval of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau. Employers are referred to previous issues of the Journal. Notice for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City. Such notices will not be acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will usually appear in the issue of the following month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A bulletin of engineering positions available will be published and will be available to members of the societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions. It is believed that a successful service can be developed if these contributions average $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum, temporary positions (of one month or less), three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, and forwarded to the Employment service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled, will not be forwarded."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"The paper deals with the subject of efficiency of power input in ferro-alloy furnaces and discusses the electrical factors to be considered in the design of the leads for achieving such efficiency. It also describes a new system of regulation, whereby the furnace temperature is kept constant by keeping the energy input constant by means of true watt regulation. Also several factors in design and construction, are discussed, which help to keep the load-factor of the operation as close to 100 per cent as possible."
"THE subject of arcing grounds in transmission systems is one of the greatest interest to operators of power systems of any extent. The almost universal grounding of the neutral in this country is done primarily to alleviate the destructive effects produced by arcing grounds. However, in spite of its great importance, a clear understanding of what happens in an arcing ground in not general. There is no agreement as to the magnitudes of voltages and surges produced, and the various theories proposed call for different properties of the arc. The authors therefore considered it well worth while to attempt in the laboratory to duplicate the conditions of an arcing ground on a transmission system and by spark gap determinations of voltages and by oscillograms to determine the maximum voltages developed and to discriminate between the various theories proposed."
"This paper describes a new relay for automatically sectionalizing transmission lines, similar to existing relays in many respects, but equipped with “brains” so that it can determine the location of the trouble and govern its operation accordingly. For dead short circuit its time of operation is proportional to the distance from the short circuit so that when it is used the circuit breaker nearest to the trouble always trips out first. When applied to any system it is adjusted to fit the particular length of line which it controls and no change in this setting need ever be made due to operating conditions on the remainder of the system. Its discrimination is obtained by a time limit which varies directly as the voltage and inversely as the current existing during the trouble. It has the incidental advantage that since the circuit breaker nearest to the trouble is opened first, the final breaker to open is the one having the longer section of line in series with it to limit the current and therefore decrease the duty required of the circuit breaker."
"The new power station of The Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston, now under construction on the Weymouth Fore River is expected to have an ultimate capacity of about 300,000 kw. The present construction covers the installation of two 32,000 kw. generating units with three 1974-h. p. boilers, operating at 375 lb. steam pressure and 700 deg. fahr. In addition, a single boiler to carry steam at pressures up to 1200 lb. is to be installed. This boiler will have about the same heating surface as the normal pressure boilers. The steam generated by it will pass through a pressure reducing turbine developing about 2000 kw., and will be exhausted at 375 lb. pressure. After being reheated to the original temperature of 700 deg. the steam will be piped to the main header and used in the large turbines. If satisfactory results are obtained from the higher-pressure boiler-turbine units more of them will be installed. Three will be required to furnish sufficient steam to operate one of the 32,000-kw. units. The maximum steam temperature was fixed at 700 deg. in consideration of the properties of materials at the higher temperatures. While the theoretical gain from higher pressure increases up to the maximum for which any data are available, the full benefit of the thermodynamic possibilities are not at present obtainable in practise without reheating the steam at some point intermediate between the throttle and the condenser. Without reheating, the most advantageous steam pressure, both practically and economically considered, seems to be about 375 lb. gage. With reheating, it appears that about 1200 lb. is a practicable initial pressure, and that 375 lb. is an entirely satisfactory pressure at which to reheat. Accordingly a combination of these two pressures with intermediate reheating has been adopted; the higher pressure with a view to developing its possibilities, the lower pressure with the feeling that it represents the best practise in the single expansion cycle and that operation solely at that pressure will give highly economical results. The character of the future development of the plant will depend upon the relative performance of the two classes of equipment. Feed water is to be heated by two-stage bleeding of the main units and by economizers. All normally running auxiliary equipment is to be driven by alternating-current motors. Power for driving the essential auxiliaries is to be supplied from a 2300-volt alternator of 2500 kv-a. capacity connected directly to each 30,000-kw. main generator shaft, and thus driven by the main turbine, which will have sufficient capacity for driving both generators at full load. This arrangement is expected to give a combination of greater economy and security than any heretofore used. The switch house will be a separate structure, four stories and basement. The upper floor will carry the switchboard and the switch operating mechanism. The three lower stories will house the bus structures, oil circuit breakers and reactors, each phase being isolated to a single floor. The basement will serve as a cable vault and all incoming and outgoing circuits will pass through it. There will be two main ring busses and a transfer bus. The ring busses will be divided into sections, each section fed by two generators and with current-limiting reactors between sections. All circuits will be connected to the busses through two oil circuit breakers in series. No prediction is made of the expected operating performance of the station, but it is calculated that under ideal conditions, acting solely as a 375-lb. single-expansion nonreheating plant, it could produce a net kw-hr. for 15,100 B. t. u. in the fuel and as a 1200 lb. compound reheating plant, it could produce a net kw-hr. for 13,600 B. t. u. These figures show the advance in heat economy that modern developments in steam engineering have made possible and the advantage which the very high-pressure reheat cycle possesses over the more conventional design. The actual plant performance will depend among other things upon the character of the load which it is found possible to put on Weymouth Station and the relative proportion of high and normal pressure equipment that may be operated."
"The new specifications for incandecent lamps determine their quality in terms of life to burnout at a specified mean efficiency. Formerly it was measured by the life to 80 per cent. of initial value. The new tests, therefore, conform more nearly to the actual practise in the use of tungsten filament lamps, as many of these lamps are above 80 per cent at time of burnout. The data on carbon lamps in the paper are based on a life exponent originally determined by Mr. Howell, one of the authors of this paper. Curves showing the relation between life, efficiency and candle power was given by him in a paper presented before the Institute on April 10, 1888. Practically the same life-candle power relation has been found to apply to the GEM, tantalum and tungsten filament lamps. Nowadays the exponent used is that applying to the life-efficiency relation and is different for each kind of filament as they have different candle power-efficiency relations. All data are based on commercial ratings and guarantees. The quality of tungsten filament lamps has greatly improved since their commercial introduction in 1907 as is shown by the fact that the 40-watt vacuum lamp is now over eight times as good as then. There is a difference in the present relative quality of the various sizes of tungsten filament lamps. The 10-watt vacuum lamp, if operated at 10 mean lumens per watt, would live 190 hours and the 1000 watt gas-filled lamp 35,000 hours. The lives of other sizes of lamps at this efficiency is between these two extremes. There has been an enormous improvement since Edison's first commercial carbon lamp of 1880. It is estimated that if the present 40-watt tungsten filament lamp were made for the same mean efficiency as the 1880 lamp, the tungsten filament lamp should have a life of over a hundred and fifty thousand years. And this does not include the enormous improvement in the larger sizes of lamps due to Dr. Langmuir's invention of the gas-filled lamp. Owing to these enormous differences, the other term of quality measurement, indicating the mean efficiency for a given life, is therefore used to show the improvements since 1880. A table gives these data in chronological order. It is estimated that in 1880 about 50 lumen-hours of light were obtained for one cent, covering the cost of current and lamp renewals. The amount now obtainable is very much greater, due to lamp improvements, reduction in their prices and reduction in rates for current. The public has utilized these by using more light. With the present 40-watt tungsten filament lamps and with current at the present approximate general average rate of 4 1/2 cents kw-hr., 1700 lumen-hours can be had for one cent. It is impossible to show what part of this actual increase is due to lamp improvements except to indicate what would have been obtainable with one factor without the other. Thus had there been no rate reduction, 432 lumen-hours would now be had due to actual lamp improvements. Without the lamp improvements 190 lumen-hours would now be had due to the reduction in the general average rate. To indicate the gain due to Dr. Langmuir's invention of the gas-filled lamp, in which the high wattage sizes are the most efficient, 3820 lumen-hours can be had with the 1000 watt lamp at 4 1/2 cents per kw-hr. About half a billion dollars were spent in the United States in 1922 for current used for lighting. If the same amount of light were produced by the original 1880 bamboo carbon lamp, the cost would have been increased 3 1/2 billion dollars requiring about fifty billion extra tons of coal, equal to about ten per cent of the total coal production in the United States."
"The first transmission of the human voice across the Atlantic was accomplished by means of radio in 1915. Since that time substantial progress has been made in the art of radio telephony and in January of this year another important step was taken in the accomplishment of transoceanic voice communication. At a prearranged time telephonic messages were received in London from New York clearly and with uniform intensity over a period of about two hours. These recent talking tests were part of a series of experiments on transatlantic telephony which are now under way, the results of which to date are reported in the paper. A new method of transmission radiating only a single side-band is being employed for the first time. As compared with the ordinary method of transmission, this system possesses the following important advantages: The effectiveness of transmission is greatly increased because all of the energy radiated is effective in conveying the message; whereas in the ordinary method, most of the energy is not thus effective. The stability of transmission is improved. The frequency band required for transmission is reduced, thus conserving wave length space in the ether and also simplifying the transmitting antenna problem. An important element of the high-power transmitter is the water-cooled tubes, by means of which the power of the transmitted currents is amplified to the order of 100 kilowatts or more. The direct-current power for these tubes is supplied from a 60-cycle, a-c. source through water-cooled rectifier tubes. A highly selective and stable type of receiving circuit is employed. Methods and apparatus have been developed for measuring the strength of the electromagnetic field which is delivered to the receiving point and for measuring the interference produced by static. The transmission tests so far have been conducted on a wave length of 5260 meters (57,000 cycles per second). The results of the measurements during the first quarter of the year on the transmission from the United States to England show large diurnal variations in the strength of the received signal and in the radio noise strength, as is to be expected, and correspondingly large diurnal variations in the ratio of the signal to noise strength and in the resulting reception of spoken words. Also, the measurements, although as yet incomplete, show a large seasonal variation. The character of the diurnal and seasonal variations is clearly indicated in the figures. The curves present the most accurate and complete data of this kind yet obtained."
"A precise method of calculation is describ d for determining the skin effect in isolated tubular conductors. This may be used where more accurate results are desired than are given by the curves and approximate methods of calculation previously published by the writer. The present calculation requires the use of certain numerical values of Bessel functions, a table for which is given. Asymptotic series for calculating them are given, which are complete with their general terms. An example is worked out, and the result checked up with the published curves."
"The mechanical stress in the supporting members of any structure or apparatus under steady state is determined by the dimensions of the member and the magnitude of the resultant applied force. Under accelerated motion, however, an additional factor enters, namely, the reaction of the mass; and if the supporting members in this case are resilient, that is, spring-like, then this becomes still another factor which enters the problem of determining the mechanical stress produced by a given impressed force. The determination of the stress in the holding device (bolts, etc.) of reactors under short-circuit condition is just such a problem. If any motion whatever is permitted under this condition, the factors of mass and resilience are active. This paper gives a theoretical analysis of the problem, and shows that if any motion is permitted, thus allowing the factors of mass and resilience to become active, then the maximum stress may be significantly increased above that for no motion. Illustrative calculations show that this increase in practical cases may be of the order of 25 per cent. On the other hand, if motion of the reactors is prevented by sufficient initial bolt tension, or otherwise, then the maximum stress in the holding device obviously need be only as great as that corresponding to the maximum instantaneous peak of the electromagnetic force."
"John B. Whitehead: If I understand Mr. Wiseman aright, he has found an agreement between the results of observation on the dielectric strength of cables and the application of certain empirical laws, based on the behavior of gases. As regards ionization, his suggestion is that it may be possible to explain the laws of cable failures in terms of ionization of the dielectric."
"Frank J. Sprague: I wish to refer to the tests which have been going on on the New York Central Railroad since the 20th day of February, a year ago, on so-called automatic train control. What is the object sought in train control? Simply to marry together the traffic conditions which exist on a railroad, no matter how indicated or governed, whether by manual signals or by automatic signals, with the braking system of a train in such manner as to insure the complete protection of that train movement, the reinforcement of any wayside indications, the amplification of those indications in the cab of the engine, or their replacement, without encroaching upon the prerogatives of the engineer when properly exercised, and without limiting the capacity of the railroad operation."
"W. N. Eddy: As a supplement to his detailed analysis of the voltage-length-current characteristics of short arcs Mr. Nottingham might be interested in the results of some arc tests that were published in 1922.1 These tests were made with the idea of (1) trying out Dr. Steinmetz' equation at longer arc lengths than used by him in 1906 and (2) finding the effect on his equation of different pressures on the arc stream."
"A. E. Kennelly: I think we are all indebted to Mr. Boyajian for bringing to our notice that we shall have to modify our views concerning angles, and their treatment by engineers."
"James J. Pilliod: Metallic conductors interconnecting cities and territories must be used in ever increasing quantities to meet the requirements for long distance telephone service. For many conditions, open wires carried on pole lines provide the best method and t he one with which we are all generally familiar. The other available method and the one with which this paper specifically deals, is to bunch the wires together within the limits of a small lead sheath and this, as might well be supposed, introduces new problems and some of the most important of these are problems of transmission. The two methods mentioned are complementary and both have wide fields of application."
"E. L. Bowles: Mr. Spooner has presented some very interesting data concerning an involved and difficult subject. The analysis of circuits containing what are rather equivocally called “variable constants,” is a difficult and sometimes an impossible problem. At present we are faced with a very serious situation no matter which way we turn. Variable coefficients of resistance are met with in the case of gaseous or thermionic conduction, and they are met with also in the case of circuits containing magnetic materials. In fact, even dielectrics suggest the consideration of variable coefficients. In view of these conditions, it seems that we should talk of the Coefficients of an electric circuit rather than the Constants, for after all, in developing the subject, one must overcome the handicap which results from a treatment of the electric circuit on the basis of constants."
"E. D. Tanzer: Not so long ago, a thermocouple was solely a physicists instrument. At the present time, however, it has a wide field of application among the operating companies. At least, we of the Philadelphia Electric Company, during the past three years have used it extensively in field determinations of the operating temperatures of cable duct lines, cable sheaths and transformer manholes, as well as in research problems pertaining to the operation of an extensive underground cable system."
"P. A. Borden: I am pleased to see Mr. Fryer's reference to the advances which have been made in the use of volt-ampere meters in Canada, with particular reference to the Lincoln instrument. The Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario, with which I am connected, is probably the largest user of the Lincoln meter, either with or without the so-called V.A.D. transformer. The Commission and the 3 0 0 municipalities to which it supplies power for resale use a large percentage of the number of these meters manufactured in Canada, and I may say that both those who sell and those who buy power as metered by this method seem satisfied with the principle as well as with its practical working out."
"E. E. F. Creighton: We have had so much difficulty with large spark lags in vacuums that I should like to ask Mr. Terman a question about his measurements. We have found in all sorts of vacuums a considerable dielectric spark lag and he has, I know, tested this with an oscillator where the duration of discharges can be expressed in thousandths of a second. But I should like to know if he has tried out the spark lag, using a frequency say of about five million cycles per second, and a single discharge."
"C. L. Fortescue: This question of Null measurement is one that has been discussed in the Institute in the past quite a good deal. I think that Null methods of calibrating current transformers are in general use now. We ourselves have used a method of calibrating current transformers which was described by me in the Institute JOURNAL some time ago, in which variable mutual inductances were used. At that time we used d'Arsonval portable type galvanometer, and a synchronous contactor. This method was quite satisfactory so long as the contactor was properly maintained; but as we were using this apparatus right on our test floor, with green operators from time to time, who had to be trained to use the device, it was difficult to get them familiar enough with it to be able to tell when it was working properly, and the results were sometimes erratic."
"The Mexican Government according to a report to the Department of Commerce from Trade Commissioner H. B. MacKenzie, has announced the organization of a National Commission of Motive Power, (Comision Nacional de Fuerza Motriz), for the organization, development, planning and supervision of the commercial exploitation of the natural power resources of the Republic. Studies will be made of the legislation in other countries relative to the developments of hyroelectric power, and the generation and sale of electrical energy."
"Forming the plastic clay body into the finished insulator shape prior to the firing to vitrification is of great importance. Among the methods used to accomplish this are: 1. Dust or Semi-dry Pressing 2. Plastic Forming 3. Casting. Dust pressed insulators are used chiefly in low-tension work. The prepared plastic body is dried out, dampened with a definite amount of water, pulverized and pressed in steel molds. The density of this product is not so great as that made in other ways, but accurately sized, difficult shapes can be made. Turning from pugged blanks, throwing and jiggering are processes in which the body is roughly shaped while in the plastic condition, and might be termed “plastic forming.” Pieces formed this way are trued up or fettled while still damp but stiff enough to hold their shape. The most common method of shaping thin-walled insulators is with a hot press die. Here the plaster of paris mold, having the shape of the outside or top of the insulator, is placed on a horizontally revolving wheel, the plastic clay body being placed in the mold and carefully pressed down so as to conform with the mold. A heated metal part is forced down onto the clay in the revolving mold, and shapes the spinning clay into proper form for the bottom of the insulator. The hot metal causes steam to be formed from the water in the plastic clay body, and this acts as a lubricant, preventing the clay from tearing, and also making it possible to form extremely thin petticoats or walls. Casting is done by preparing the clay body with sufficient water and electrolytes to form a liquid (slip). This is poured into dry plaster of paris molds of proper shape. The plaster absorbs water from the clay, and allows it to stiffen and become firm enough to be handled when the mold is removed after a proper period of time. Properly prepared slip has no more water (hence no more shrinkage) than plastic body. Pouring in the liquid condition makes it possible to form heavy pieces comparatively free from strains."
"There are over a million motor vehicles licensed in New York State. Inasmuch as more than 60 per cent of the State's population lives or does business in New York City, handling the traffic problem on the little island of Manhattan is an enormous task."
"Plans are being matured for t he Pacific coast convention, which will be held in Del Monte, Calif., October 2–5. The program in tentative form is as follows:"
"The 39th Annual Convention of the A. I. E. E., held at Swampscott, Mass., June 25–29, was the largest and probably the most enthusiastic gathering in the history of the Institute. The total registration was 1616, which surpasses by several hundred the attendance at any previous Institute Convention."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the New Ocean House, Swampscott, Mass., on Wednesday, June 27, 1923."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"While it has been generally recognized that the Employment Service, conducted as a joint activity of the four national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers constitutes one of the most valuable activities of these societies and is far more efficient in its present status than when handled as an independent service by each society, the maintenance expense to the societies has been heavy. Also the scope of the service and its value to the individual member and the employer very evidently falls short of what might be possible under a more comprehensive plan of operation were larger funds available. A joint committee to study the service was appointed in November 1922, consisting of two representatives from each of the four societies as follows: American Society of Civil Engineers, J. P. Perry, E. S. Nethercut; American Institute of Mining & Metallurgical Engineers, F. T. Rubidge, J. V. W. Reynders; American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Prof. J. W. Roe, E. W. Swartwout; American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Prof. W. I. Slichter, H. C. Carpenter."
"The Philadelphia Section is preparing under the direction of Chairman-elect Ross B. Mateer for a very active year. New activities are to be inaugurated such as presentation of latest developments in the industry at stated meetings, — selling the aims and activities of the Institute to students, — coordination of relations with other Sections. The finance committee has prepared a definite budget for the year. The following is a list of committees appointed with their chairmen: Finance, J. L. Mac-Burney; Meetings and Papers, R. B. Mateer, ex-officio; Membership, P. E. Tillson; Publicity, E. C. Drew; Attendance, L. H. Rittenhouse; Technical, H. S. Phelps; Student Branch Activities, C. D. Fawcett; Sections Coordination, L. J. Costa."
"The National Research Council, in its division of engineering, has appointed a committee on Core losses in electrical machinery. This committee has in course of preparation, with a view to publication, a bibliography, or list of publications on the general subject of core losses, from 1885 to 1922, including eddy currents, skin-effect and hysteresis, as well as their effects on the behavior of electrical machinery. In view of the great industrial and technical importance of core losses on the output, efficiency, heating and cost of electrical machinery and apparatus, it is very desirable that the subject should be thoroughly studied, so as to reduce such losses to a minimum."
"Engineers are protesting strongly against the removal of Arthur P. Davis as Director of the U. S. Reclamation Service. Secretary Work's action is characterized as prejudicial to the public interest, and the Secretary is described as pursuing a dangerous course."
"The American Electric Railway Association has submitted its specifications for overhead line material for action by the American engineering standards committee, to determine the question of sponsorship and to arrange for the submission of the specifications already developed by the A. E. R. A. to a duly organized sectional or working committee, which will make such revisions and additions as may be necessary to bring these specifications up to the full status of an “American Standard.” The special committee to consider the question of sponsorship and scope of the specifications, which are also of direct interest to other than electric railway interests, is headed by Mr. A. H. Moore, representing the Electrical Manufacturers Council on the A. E. S. C., and includes representation from the National Electric Light Association, American Railway Association, Electrical Manufacturers Council, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Electric Railway Association, American Short Line Railway Association, and the Bell Telephone System."
"A. M. Jacobs, after a stay of three years in the Far East, has returned to his native country and has joined the staff of the Electricity Supply Commission of the Union of South Africa."
"Provides a notice of recent events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Eastman Theatre and School of Music was designed and given to the people of Rochester by Mr. George Eastman for the purpose of teaching and presenting music in its best form and under ideal conditions, using motion pictures as a part of the educational scheme. A great deal of preliminary work was done in planning the auditorium and the lighting to be used during the exhibition of motion pictures so as to eliminate all possibility of visual fatigue. Illumination and Brightness Measurements. From preliminary investigations on a small scale, it was found that fairly high illumination levels can be obtained in the motion picture theatre without any detrimental effect upon the quality of the projected picture. In planning the lighting system of this theatre, an attempt was made to obtain illuminations of fairly high values distributed so as not to cause loss of quality in the picture. Equipment. The electrical installation of a modern theatre, of the size and scope of the Eastman, together with a School of Music embraces a variety of equipment and apparatus. Alternating current is used for the lights and constant speed motors, and direct current for the variable speed motors. The chandelier is equipped with a system of indirect lights, decorative candles, direct lights, and lights for scintillating the crystals. The picture booth is equipped with two sources of direct current one source from the street main, and another from a motor generator set driven by alternating current. The outside illumination consists of a flood lighting system for the entire facade of the building, marquise lights and display and attraction signs. There are six separate telephone systems in this installation — the outside bell system, automatic inside system, a production phone system in the Theatre and another in Kilbourn Hall, the ushers and ticket office system and the dressing room system. Time clocks are installed throughout the institution and a program clock operates buzzers in all studios. There is an employees' and a watchman's time recorder and time stamp system for keeping account of the time spent in the piano and organ practice rooms. A set of chimes in the corridors notify the audience when the intermissions are over. A complete local fire alarm system is installed and also boxes on the Theatre and Kilbourn Hall stages in connection with the city system. Speed indicators at the stage directors stand, music directors stand and organ console indicate the speed of the film and telegraph indicators similar to a marine engine room telegraph provide means for signalling the projectionist. A magnetic douser or system of magnetically controlled shutters provides means of instantaneously changing from one picture machine to another as the end of the reel is reached. Finally, a radio broadcasting station is installed for distributing the musical productions throughout the country and thus fulfilling the aim of this institution which is to promote the education in and appreciation of good music."
"The object of this article is (a) To describe an installation of electric heating of a cotton weave shed. (b) To test the excellency of methods of estimating quantity of heat required for buildings of this kind. (c) To derive a parity between the cost per kw-hr. and a ton of coal for heating in climates where the average winter temperatures are about 22 deg. and 48 deg. respectively. (d) To determine under what conditions electric heating in a textile mill may be used."
"In the early days of power transmission, there was no consistent practise in respect to operating with neutral isolated or with neutral grounded. The rapid growth of transmission systems with their extensive networks soon began to show disastrous results from arcing grounds on isolated neutral systems and now most power transmissson networks have their neutrals grounded in some manner. The discussion of general considerations of neutral grounding is divided into two parts, that of overhead line systems and underground cable systems. He brings out the fact that while most overhead systems are grounded there is some difference in practise as to the extent to which they are grounded, that is as to whether they are grounded solidly or through resistance. Prevailing practise tends toward little or no resistance. Attention is called to different possible methods of grounding a system and shows by diagrams the flow of short-circuit current with the different methods. Underground cable systems are consistently operated with neutral grounded but general practise tends toward the use of resistance in neutral. General considerations as to protection from the voltage strains due to arcing grounds on cable systems are similar to overhead line systems and the author analyzes briefly the character of cable breakdowns and general effect of such breakdowns with a view to determining the importance of the extent to which a cable system should be grounded. The conclusion in regard to cable systems indicates about the same limitations as those found for overhead systems and no very good reasons are found for a distinctive difference in practise. The paper considers the use of grounding resistors of different types and gives some cast figures to show the effect of time and current in the design of metallic resistors. The general conclusion arrived at is that, on either overhead or underground transmission systems, high-voltage strains are more to be feared than high-current strains and that resistance to limit ground current, if used at all, should be of very low value."
"Review of the Subject. — The paper describes the development of the large electric melting furnace; the limitations of large electrode furnaces; the design and construction of the largest electric melting furnace ever built; the advantages of correct heat application in the large furnaces; the influence of the new Soderberg Continuous Electrode on furnace design; and possibility of using large electric furnaces as an intermediate process for the manufacture of cheap steel."
"No means has yet been discovered whereby the abnormal rise of current occurring during short circuits is avoided. Protection against its destructive effects remains, therefore, a subject of major importance. Among the problems requiring short-circuit current determinations, the following are the chief ones: (1) Selection of oil circuit breakers of the required interrupting capacity. (2). Determination of the size of current-limiting reactors. (3) Determination of relay settings in relay systems depending on selective action from over-current and directional relays. (4) Calculation of mechanical stresses in the structural elements of apparatus subject to short-circuit electromagnetic forces. Each of these problems requires the knowledge of the magnitude of short-circuit currents; relay problems frequently require, in addition, the relative phases of currents and voltages at different points of the system during short circuits; in item (4) above the wave-form of the short-circuit current sometimes has to be considered. The available information on the latter subjects, i. e. on phase relations and on wave form during short circuits is relatively meager, probably because it has been required in special cases only. Nevertheless, the demands for these data are increasing — on account of both the tendency towards increased sensitiveness of protective devices and the rapid increase in the magnitude of the short-circuit currents to be handled — and it will be worth while, therefore, if this added information is obtained. This paper is confined to the problems of the determination of the magnitude of short-circuit currents. The magnitude of short-circuit currents depends on a multiplicity of factors which have been enumerated and dealt with in other publications.1 When the impedances of all the circuit elements affected by the short-circuit are known together with the current-time decrement characteristics of all machinery capable of supplying current to the short circuit,2 the problem of short-circuit-current determination resolves itself into one of current division in a given network of electrical conductors under given electromotive forces. In the following paper, the comparative merits of three methods — calculation, a-c. test, and d-c. test — of determining short-circuit currents in networks are briefly discussed. Two d-c. experimental methods applicable to the “short-circuit calculating table” are analyzed in detail. The accuracy of its results, by both methods, is obtained for a variety of circuit conditions. The proper field of use of the short-circuit calculating table, and the best method of its application are determined."
"The Committee on Electrical Insulation of the Division of Engineering, National Research Council, has as its principal purpose the coordination and stimulation of research in this important field. Its ultimate aim is the laying of a foundation of fundamental knowledge of the nature of the phenomena of insulation, on which the solutions of practical problems can be safely erected in a rational scientific fashion."
"During a thunder storm lightning voltages that reach the transmission line appear across insulators, transformers and other apparatus at the extremely rapid rate of millions of volts per second. With this rapid rate of application the voltage may reach a very high value in a microsecond (millionth of a second). Hence, since there is always a delay or lag in the breakdown of insulation, quite peculiar effects result from these voltages. For instance, some remarkable phenomena that take place are: Much higher lightning voltages are usually required to jump a given distance than voltages at normal operating frequency; conductors at normal frequency voltages are often good insulators for lightning voltages; water may be punctured like oil; the wet and dry spark-over voltage of insulators are equal; the lightning discharge has a decidedly explosive effect, etc. In addition to the characteristics just mentioned, a study has also been made of the change in voltage and shape of a lightning wave as it travels over a transmission line at the velocity of light. In order that a laboratory study may be of a practical as well as a theoretical interest, it is necessary to be able to reproduce lightning voltages in the laboratory on a large scale and of known characteristics. This investigation was started some years ago with a 200-kv. generator. The generator has been added to from time to time until now, 2,000,000 volts are available and single lightning strokes can be obtained that increase at the rate of 50 million million volts per second. The power is of the order of millions of kilowatts. It is believed that this generator closely approximates voltage and other conditions that usually occur on transmission lines. The lightning voltages used in this investigation were far in excess of any heretofore produced in a laboratory. This impulse generator discharge must not be confused with that produced by an oscillator. The lightning generator, unlike the ocillator, discharges with a loud sharp report or crack. The photographic study shows the lightning spark-over of insulator strings that are of such a length as rarely to spark-over in practise even in bad lightning country. The photographs of the flashes show all the characteristics of lightning such as a zig-zag path, side flashes, etc. The study of the travel of the lightning wave on transmission lines is of interest. It indicates for instance, a certain protective effect of corona and shows that under certain conditions inductance coils may increase the lightning voltage four fold. Certain phases of the ground wire have also been studied."
"The raw materials should be carefully tested before using. China and ball clays should be tested for fired color, porosity at the regular burning temperature, fineness of grain, etc. Ball clays should be tested for raw physical strength. The grain size of quartz is of particular importance and the fine grain sizes should be determined by elutriation or water separation. Feldspar should fuse to a glass with the fusion of pyrometric cone No. 8, 1280 deg. cent. (2336 deg. fahr.), and its color, degree of glassiness, amount of deformation, etc. noted. The composition and formation of porcelain in firing are briefly described. The limits of composition are wide but the quality of the final product will vary with the composition. Special porcelains for use as spark plug cores are made by eliminating feldspar and quartz and substituting synthetic calcines. During firing the mechanical water is first expelled. Chemically combined water is driven off at 500 deg. cent. (932 deg. fahr.). Alpha quartz assumes the beta form at 575 deg. cent. (1067 deg. fahr.) with a similar expansion in volume. Shrinkage and condensation of the volume of the clay substance takes place at 900 deg. cent. (1652 deg. fahr.). Continued firing contracts the porcelain and decreases the porosity, the feldspar finally melting and gradually taking the more refractory clay and quartz into solution or assisting in converting it into other materials, particularly the clay which breaks up into sillimanite and free silica. The solution of the quartz depends upon grain size and heat treatment. On account of volume change of the quartz grains, it is evident that the fired porcelain, in which the quartz grains are in intimate contact with the glassy groundmass will be placed in a condition of stress after cooling down as the quartz contracts more rapidly than the rest of the porcelain. Naturally the greatest strain occurs around the largest quartz grains and clearly demonstrates the necessity for fine grinding. The properties and testing of porcelain are described. Ordinary porcelain has a tensile strength of from 3000 to 6000 pounds per square inch and a coefficient of lineal thermal expansion of from 4 to 9 × 10−6 per degrees centigrade, while special porcelains have a strength as high as 12,000 pounds and an expansion as low as 2.7 × 10−6."
"Determination of Constants from Input Impedance. Fig. 61 shows a generator (or oscillator) supplying alternating current to a line. This results in waves which travel from A to B. Assuming for the time being that there is no reflection at B and no return waves, the relation of voltage to current is E/I = Z in which Z is the surge impedance of the line. When the generator makes the point A positive with respect to ground it supplies a current in the direction A — B. Let us now imagine the generator and the absorbing terminal circuit interchanged so that the generator supplies current to the end B and the waves travel from B to A. The impedance measured at the terminals of the generator will be the same as before, but when the line is positive with respect to ground the current will be flowing in the direction B — A. Therefore if we define the voltage as positive when the line is positive with respect to ground, and the current as positive when in the direction A — B, then for waves traveling in the direction A — B the voltage is E = + Z I, but for waves traveling in the direction B — A the relation is E = — Z I."
"At the Spring Convention of the Institute, in Pittsburgh, the subject of superpower in its various aspects was discussed by the after-dinner speakers at the banquet. While the engineering details of superpower systems have been discussed at considerable length in previous A. I. E. E. papers, the following addresses depict the sociological and political aspects of the subject which have received less attention. The relation between power and social progress was discussed by Mr. Paul T. Brady, Special Representative, Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., the engineering features in their broadest sense were described by Mr. R. F. Schuchardt, Electrical Engineer, Commonwealth Edison Co., and the political aspects of the subject were discussed by Mr. M. H. Aylesworth, Executive Manager, National Electric Light Association."
"R. E. Doherty: I wish to discuss two points bearing upon this paper: One regarding accuracy; the other, regarding the extension of the use of miniature models to determine, in addition to the short-circuit current distribution under steady state, as covered by the present paper, the most desirable feeder connections for normal load transfer; and further, the behavior of stations and generating units under transient state."
"Frank B. Jewett: To you, members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, and to you, our guests assembled together in New York and Chicago, I wish in opening this first evening meeting of our Midwinter Convention especially to call your attention to the unique significance of the occasion which brings us together and of the epoch in engineering history which it marks, not only in electrical development but in the conduct of human affairs as well."
"A. Le Blanc: Mr. Potter's paper gives a very good idea of the existing differences between American and European practise. I would like to call your attention to some points applying merely to French railways."
"Kenneth S. Johnson: There are certain statements made in the Peters paper to which I wish to take exception and which, unless pointed out, I believe are likely to be misleading."
"A total of 536 public service generating stations in Great Britain is shown by the report of the “Electricity Commission” for the year ending March 31, 1922. Of this number 366 utilized steam as a source of power, 55 producer gas, 47 oil engines and the remainder other means, including water power. The Electrical Division of the Department of Commerce states that only seven stations depend exclusively upon water power, the largest of which produced 18,763,000 of the total of 29,107,000 kw-hr. generated from this source."
"The following figures have recently been compiled to show the approximate annual total and per capita consumption of incandescent lamps in the United States and several European countries."
"A new industrial lighting unit, in which a diffusing globe is combined with a steel reflector or diffuser has recently been designed and is being put into production by a number of reflector manufacturers. The unit, shown in Fig. 1, consists of an enameled steel reflector and a glass diffusing globe which completely encloses the lamp."
"An interesting exhibition of street lighting standards, shown in the accompanying illustration Fig. 1, has been installed at Nela Park, Cleveland, at the instance of lamp and equipment manufacturers. Its purpose is to provide a composite or cross-section of modern street lighting equipments for the study of city officials, civic organizations, engineers, and other interested persons."
"The Spring Convention of the A. I. E. E., held in Pittsburgh, April 24–27, proved a record breaker in point of attendance and was equally notable in the interest and enthusiasm displayed by all present. In both its technical and entertainment features the Convention was a marked success and reflected the highest credit upon the local convention committee whose efficient cooperation and well-laid plans were constantly in evidence in the conduct of the meeting."
"As the week of June 25–29 rapidly approaches, final plans for the summer convention at Swampscott, Mass. are practically complete, and as this issue of the Journal reaches the reader, a harmonious and enticing professional and entertainment program is taking its “permanent set.” The cooperation of all the leading electrical engineering, manufacturing and utility organizations of eastern New England is responsible for a prospective welcome to delegates and guests that will vie with Western cordiality and Southern hospitality in the endeavor to make those attending feel at home among the brethren of the Northeast. The details of this program are published below. Just how keenly the individual members of the Institute who reside in New England are anticipating this visit of their fellow-members and guests would be difficult to put in a few lines of cold type; but as the members of the convention committee have been at work on the plans for the meeting at Swampscott, they have been impressed with the unanimous feeling of joyous expectation with which the local officials and the rank and file of the A. I. E. E. membership are looking toward this memorable week. It is believed that a delightful convention is close upon us."
"The Annual Business Meeting of the A. I. E. E. was held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, Friday, May 18, 1923, President Frank B. Jewett presiding."
"On the evening of Friday, May 18, a group of Past Presidents, present officers, and a few others, including the President-elect, met at dinner at the University Club, upon the invitation of President Jewett."
"Harris J. Ryan, Professor of Electrical Engineering, Leland Stanford Junior University, Palo Alto, California, has been elected President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the year beginning August 1, 1923, as anounced in the report of the Committee of Tellers published elsewhere in this issue."
"As previously announced, the date of the Pacific Coast Convention to be held in Del Monte, Cal., has been changed from September 25–28 to October 2–5, 1923. The local committee has practically completed the general details of the meeting, which will consist of three technical sessions at which papers dealing with various phases of long-distance power transmission will predominate. The presentation of the Edison Medal to Dr. R. A. Millikan, and a banquet are scheduled, and the remaining time during the meeting will be devoted to inspection trips to the many points of engineering and historic interests which abound in this vicinity."
"The Annual Report of the Board of Directors of the A. I. E. E. was presented at the Annual Business Meeting of the Institute held in New York, Friday afternoon, May 18, 1923."
"To the President, American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"As announced in the May issue of the Journal, Past President Schuyler Skaats Wheeler died in New York, April 20."
"Early in 1920, as outlined in the August 1920 Journal, as law requiring “Professional engineers” to be licensed was passed by the New York State Legislature and an attempt was made to administer it, but it was so defective in certain essential details that it was amended in 1921. As amended, it became effective in May of that year, forming part of “the general business law, in relation to licensing of professional engineers and land surveyors, generally.” The law made the licensing of “professional engineers” employed in engineering work in the State permissive up to May 5, 1923, and mandatory after that date. Details relative to the examining board, its first session, etc., were noted in the January 1922 Journal."
"Published monthly by the Institution of Electrical Engineers, London, in association with the Physical Society of London, “Science abstracts” provides all electrical engineers actively engaged in the practise of their profession, with a certain and efficient means of keeping in touch with what is being done and what is being published in the engineering world, a reliable record of progress."
"In commemoration of the founding, 75 years ago, of the Société des Ingenieurs Civils de France, meetings were held in Paris, occupying three days and opened with an address by the President of France, and in New York. A cablegram expressing the felictations of the Institute was sent to the French Society by President Jewett who also appointed A. S. Garfield, A. I. E. E., Honorary Secretary for France, as a delegate to the exercises in Paris. The New York meeting was a joint meeting of the four national societies of Civil, Mechanical, Electrical and Mining Engineers and the American Section of the French society and was held on the evening of May 4. Harrington Emerson, President of the American Section of the Société des Ingenieurs Civils presided. The speakers of the evening were Gaston Liebert, director of the French Bureau of Information; Dr. C. O. Mailloux, president of the I. E. C.; William Barclay Parsons, Arthur S. Dwight and Henry Vigneron. As expressing the sentiment of the meeting, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:"
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, May 18, 1923, at 2:30 p.m."
"On Friday, May 18, a farewell dinner was given at the Harvard Club by the national societies of civil, mechanical, mining and electrical engineers to Dr. Emmanuel de Margerie, French exchange professor to the United States. Dr. Albert Ledoux, past president of the A. I. M. E., presided. A number of French officials were also the guests of the societies, including Dr. Imlay Benet, Consul General in New York. Prof. de Margerie, who as representative of the Ministry of Education has just finished a year of lecturing at Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Pennsylvania and Yale, is an international authority on geology. He has just been awarded one of the highest honors of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States, the Mary Clark Thompson gold medal for services to geology and paleontology. In his address, Prof. Margerie said, “to the engineers, after God and George Washington, the American people owes most of its present prosperity…. Great possibilities are now in your hands, in directing a large part of public opinion towards that fundamental problem of democracy, the proper education of young men”. Other speakers were M. Benet, M. Liebert and Dr. A. E. Kennelly of Harvard, former engineering exchange professor to France."
"The second edition of the E M F Electrical Year Book, has recently been issued by the Electrical Trade Publishing Company. The first edition, published last year, received appropriate comment in the Journal. The new edition is greatly enlarged and contains comprehensive electrical data, covering the field of electricity from many different angles. Some of these are: Definitions of electrical terms, historical and statistical information about electrical applications and activities, biographical sketches of prominent scientists and engineers, information about electrical associations, schools, colleges, patents and exports. The book is arranged alphabetically, so that its use is convenient and simple."
"Electrical Exhibits at the Kansas university engineering exhibit, April 21st, received high honors. The department of Electrical Engineering, Professor George C. Shaad head of department, was awarded a cup for the best department exhibits, by the committee of judges composed of members of the engineering profession from Kansas City. Many of the exhibits representing the various phases of electrical engineering were of a spectacular nature, notably the high-tension transformer exhibit."
"Under this heading are included news items of the National research council and its activities and summaries of progress made by the research committees of its Division of Enigineering during the current month."
"Thirteen men, consisting of six representatives of producers, three representatives of consumers, and four representatives of general interests, constitute the personnel of the Sectional Committee on Illuminating Engineering Nomenclature and Photometric Standards, one of the projects officially before the American Engineering Standards Committee."
"Forty-two men, representing the manufacturers and users of traffic signals, federal and state governmental departments, associations interested in the prevention of traffic accidents, and representatives of the general public, are now at work on the drafting of a national code on the proper colors for traffic signals, which it is expected will not only cut down the annual loss of life through traffic accidents, but will eliminate many of the existing irritations to motorists and to the operators of steam and electric railways."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"A. G. von Norman is engineer for the A. G. Manufacturing Company, of Seattle, Washington."
"O. B. Moorhead, President and Chief Engineer of the Moorhead Laboratories, Inc., of San Francisco, Calif., died suddenly in February, 1923. He was a graduate of the Polytechnical School of Engineering at Oakland, Calif. From 1901 to 1915 he was connected with the Pacific Coast Marconi Wireless Tel. & Tel. Co., and while in this work he installed semi high power stations in Mexico, Alaska and the United States. Later he became the head of the Moorhead Laboratories, manufacturing radio and electrical apparatus and contractors for the U. S. Government and the British Government. Mr. Moorhead was an Associate of the A. I. E. E. and a member of the Institute of Radio Engineers."
"Provides a notice of recent events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A description of the expansion of the Transocean Communication System of the Radio Corporation of America from a few isolated plants to a unified group of electrical plants all controlled for communication purposes from a central traffic in New York City, with a summary of the technical conditions covering the design of the Radio Central Station and of the technical conditions to be met in operating efficiently a modern radio communication system."
"The question of how far to go with duplication of equipment and the installation of safeguards is one that plays an important part in central station design. The extent to which these provisions are made has an important bearing on the cost of installation and has a direct influence upon the dependability of the service rendered. Stations on larger interconnected systems require a greater degree of protection of this nature than is usually the case in stations on small systems on account of the importance of the service as well as the more serious results of short circuits, due to the greater concentration of energy. This article discusses the more important considerations to be taken into account and points out that local conditions will have a determining influence on the decision made."
"High-Voltage insulation testing has been and is usually still done by alternating voltages. High direct voltage was made available for testing purposes by the development of the kenotron tube. When used for testing insulation direct voltage has several advantages over alternating voltage. (1) the power necessary is often much less with direct voltage than with alternating voltage. In apparatus of high electrostatic capacity, such as long high-voltage cables, the size of the alternating-voltage testing transformer becomes excessive, thousands of kilovolt-amperes being necessary. Direct voltages are therefore preferable as they necessitate only a few kilowatts. (2) Excess direct voltage is less likely to permanently damage the insulation than excess alternating voltage. (3) If direct voltage is used conductivity tests can be made and the action of the material on the application of the voltage more thoroughly studied. As the use of high direct voltage for testing purposes is found to be increasing, it is important to determine the relation between the insulation stress produced by direct and that produced by alternating voltages. Little is definitely known of what is called the “dielectric strength ratio of insulation” which is the ratio of the direct disruptive voltage to the crest value of the alternating disruptive voltage. In general, this ratio might be expected to be unity. While such is the case with air some engineers have claimed, however, that some solid insulations stand a higher direct than alternating voltage. Therefore, a very extensive set of investigations was made, with direct and with alternating voltages, on liquid and solid insulations of homogeneous and non-homogeneous structure, over a range of temperature, thickness and rate of voltage application. Their dielectric strength ratios were determined and are given and discussed in the paper. It was found that the dielectric strength ratio may be greater than unity, and sometimes very much so, that is, that the material may stand higher and sometimes very much higher direct voltages than alternating voltages, but also that the ratio with other materials may be less than unity, that is, the material may stand higher alternating than direct voltages. Ratios less than unity were given by oils, petrolatum, powdered glass, etc., that is, they stood higher alternating than direct voltage, though the difference rarely exceeded 10 per cent. Ratios above unity were given by paper, cloth, solid glass and mica, etc., indicating a greater strength for direct than for alternating voltages. The dielectric strength ratio of some materials, such as laminated paper, was found to vary with the condition and in general increase with decreasing temperature, decreasing thickness and increasing rapidity of voltage application. Some materials, such as petrolatum impregnated cable paper, gave a very high ratio, some times exceeding two, while the component materials did not differ much from unity, petrolatum being a little below and air-dry paper a little above unity. It is believed that the observation of the dielectric strength ratio and its changes with the condition of test, will give us a powerful tool for the investigation of insulation, and assist in solving the problem of understanding the mechanism of the breakdown of insulation in an electric field."
"This paper points out the advantages, both to the maker and the customer, of national standard specifications for manufactured articles. The history of standardization in England is outlined. British specifications for electrical instruments appeared first in 1909, and in improved and enlarged form in 1919. French specifications were adopted in 1921, German in 1922. The outstanding features of the three foreign specifications are compared. The British go into much detail concerning scale construction and marking, the French concerning definitions and temperature rises. The German specifications contain very good definitions of instruments and their parts, principles, etc. They prescribe severe tests for mechanical and thermal robustness, and have an elaborate scheme of symbols to indicate the grade, operating principle, kind of current, test voltage, etc. An account is then given of the consideration which the subject of instrument standardization has received in this country. The National Meter Committees have done a related piece of work by having the Meter Code prepared, and revised, and have made recommendations to the makers from time to time concerning matters of instrument standardization. The Instruments and Measurements Committee of the Institute has considered the foreign specifications, and has determined by a personal canvass that a majority of American makers are in favor of standardization. However, this canvass also showed that most of them would have felt much freer to discuss proposed standard specifications rather than the abstract question as to whether specifications should be formulated. The Instruments and Measurements Committee therefore appointed a subcommittee of four members to prepare such tentative specifications, which are given as an Appendix to the paper. The specifications omit some important topics because the Subcommittee wished to include at the start only those on which general agreement could be had without difficulty. The paper concludes with a discussion of some of the features of the tentative specifications."
"The selective relaying of a high-voltage transmission system gives rise to many interesting problems. This is particularly the case when the system is grounded through a high resistance, as the amount of energy available on ground faults is limited and the ground protection introduces a problem entirely separate from that of the short-circuit protection of the system. It is also interesting to note that it is only in recent years that the design of high-voltage large capacity control equipment has been perfected to such a state as to place the protection of high-voltage systems on a par with that of comparatively lower voltage systems. The relay problems involved in the protection of low or high-voltage systems are not materially different except as affected by the equipment available, or by the ever present problem of economics. The system in question presented no unusul engineering features except as presented by the problem of securing circuit breakers of the required voltage and with sufficient capacity to rupture the large blocks of power presented by short-circuit conditions. This problem was successfully solved by the manufacturer. A ring system of duplicate feeders lends itself to various relay schemes to secure protection. A number of these schemes was thoroughly investigated and a summary of the conclusions is given, showing the advantages and disadvantages of the schemes considered. These studies showed the advisability of using the scheme of balanced directional relays for short-circuit protection, and selective differential current relays for ground protection, on the 66,000-volt ring of the Duquesne Light Company. Before putting the relays into service on this system it was decided to make a series of actual service tests on the lines. Accordingly a series of dead grounds were put on the ring and the relays allowed to function to clear the grounded section of line. The dead ground was replaced by a simulated fallen line wire lying on the surface of the ground. This was in turn replaced by a series of arcing grounds accomplished by fusing over a suspension insulator to ground. A total of 28 grounds were thrown on the 66,000-volt ring and successfully cleared by the relays. A description of the tests and a summary of the results are given."
"Directive Effects for Impulses. The question will naturally arise whether directivity curves calculated for continuous waves, are applicable to the steep wave fronts and pulses of static. The experimental evidence is that they are applicable. It is clear that in the case of the wave antenna, waves on the wire will build up in the direction of travel of the space wave, and relatively feeble waves will reach the opposite end of the antenna, whatever the wave shape or number of waves in the train. As applied to antennas or circuits in which a balance of some sort is employed, to give zero reception for continuous waves from certain directions, the explanation of our experience with static is to be found in the great frequency selectivity of our receiving sets. Harmonic analysis of a pulse would show it to be equivalent to the sum of a large number of trains of waves of different frequencies. Of these the receiving set rejects all but the waves of signal frequency. Another view of the problem is the following:"
"AT the Pacific Coast Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held in Portland, Oregon, July 1920, the following resolutions were passed:"
"The three previous articles have been devoted to giving a brief description of the theoretical points involved in the development of porcelain. The following articles will briefly describe the actual manufacturing methods and the application of the theoretical points. Recent developments in plant management and control have been applied to porcelain manufacture in the same manner as they have to other industries, and the old rule of thumb and trade secret methods are fast disappearing. Ample storage room for raw materials is necessary for a uniformly high grade product can only be made when there is ample time to test the raw materials prior to using them, and to permit of the rejection of inferior materials when necessary without causing any delays in production. Accurate methods of weighing the various raw materials to form the final raw body are necessary. Care must be used in determining the per cent of moisture in each raw material so as to compound the body on a dry weight basis. The old method of preparing the body by mixing or blunging, with the idea of merely suspending the raw materials in water without regard for grain size is to be avoided. Many potters are now grinding the materials in pebble mills and working to definite grain sizes. The ground body is passed over a magnetic separator to remove magnetic iron, then passed through a fine mesh (120 meshes to the lineal inch) lawn and filter pressed to eliminate excess water, and thus put the ingredients in a workable condition (approximately 22 per cent water). The materials for porcelain can also be stored easily while in this condition. By storage the plasticity is not only increased, but time is available in which to run actual tests on the materials before releasing them for production. The moisture content in filter press cakes is not uniform throughout the cross-section of the cakes. A greater degree of homogeneity is produced by pugging the body after filter pressing. A pug mill develops uniformity to a high degree when properly handled. Several methods of shaping the body into final form require different methods of preparation. Each of these will be described in later issues."
"Frank B. Jewett: There is very little that I can add to what Mr. Morehouse has outlined to you in the paper except to point out one or two collateral features of this very substantial trend which we are experiencing toward the increased use of machinery to perform functions which ordinarily require human intelligence."
"F. L. Rhodes: Mr. Howe's valuable paper advances our knowledge of a subject which has occupied the attention of engineering investigators for more than three hundred years. Study of the resistance of plates to the motion of fluids against them, goes back to the time of Galileo. Sir Isaac Newton, about 1687, announced the general formula based on theoretical considerations, indicating that the pressure varies with the square of the velocity, that is, P = K V2."
"H. H. Beverage: Since the wave antenna paper was written, more quantitative measurements have been made on the effective height of the wave antenna. The measurements mentioned in the paper gave the ratio of horizontal to vertical voltage gradient as 30 per cent. This measurement was based on comparatively few observations and was not checked simultaneously against an antenna of known effective height. Furthermore, the measurements were based on vertical gradients calculated by Austin's formula, which gives values much lower than observed values at certain periods of the day."
"There is little in standardization as an engineering concept to appeal to the popular imagination. However, in the lighting industry, standardization has progressed to a high degree even though the average lamp consumer has never demanded standardized voltages, bases, or types of lamps. By adhering strictly to the fundamental idea of reducing to a minimum the number of standard voltages, bases, and types of lamps and yet developing a satisfactory lighting service for each field, the standardization movement has contributed materially in increasing the amount of light obtained for a given expenditure."
"A motor driven display for demonstrating the durability of the new Mazda mill-type lamps is shown in Fig. 1. This was built especially for an exhibit at the Convention of the Iron and Steel Electrical Engineers and at the Southern Textile Exposition during the fall of 1922."
"With the increasing vehicular traffic in recent years various types of signal lights for street intersections and safety islands have come into use. To distinguish these lights at a distance from ordinary street lights, red globes are used to a considerable extent. However, the base of the post is not sufficiently lighted when a red globe is used and on this account, there is danger of motorists running into it. This difficulty was overcome by the use of luminaires adopted by the South Park Commission in Chicago, and they have been used on busy intersections of Chicago boulevards with very satisfactory results."
"As this issue of the Journal goes to press all arrangements have been completed for the 39th Annual Convention of the A. I. E. E., at Swampscott, Mass., and the distant members will have started on their way. The Convention Committee in Boston has shown great enthusiasm in planning a full program of trips of historic interest, inspection trips to plants in the vicinity, and a variety of entertainments. An unusually large attendance is expected. A detailed account of this convention will appear in the next issue of the Journal."
"The Pacific coast convention will be held, as previously announced, at Del Monte, Calif., October 2–5. The program is practically decided upon and will combine engineering papers and entertainment features to make a most profitable and enjoyable meeting."
"NOTICE TO AUTHORS — The Meetings and Papers Committee announces that papers intended for the 1924 Midwinter Convention must be received prior to October 12, 1923. Manuscripts received after this date will be considered only for subsequent meetings. In order to review, edit, print, and mail copies of more than a score of papers in advance of the conventions, three months are required. Much advanced engineering work is being done this year. A considerable part of the Midwinter Convention program is already made up of papers crowded out of the Swampscott Convention. Members preparing papers for any of the four conventions of 1924 are requested to send a preliminary note of the approximate title and probable date of completion to the Meetings and Papers Committee."
"Under this heading are included news items of the National research council and its activities and summaries of progress made by the research committees of its Division of Enigineering during the current month."
"Developing participation by engineers in public affairs was strongly evident at the last meeting, held in St. Paul, June 8–9, of the Executive Board of the American Engineering Council of the Federated American Engineering Societies. General round table discussion revealed that local groups in many sections of the country are taking a constructive part in solving community problems. This local effort embraces traffic, smoke abatement, water supply, city planning, state and municipal legislation relating to engineering matters and related subjects."
"J. WALLACE has recently formed a connection with the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Company of Los Angeles, Calif."
"Louis Matty, a French citizen, for many years in engineering work in Mexico and South America, died on September 27, 1922, at the age of forty-five. His work was chiefly connected with installing hydroelectric and other electrical plants in Mexico and was a pioneer in that field. At the time of his death he was Chief Engineer of the Cia. Hidroelectrica e Irrigadora del Chapala, S. A. Mr. Matty became an Associate of the A. I. E. E. in 1923."
"Provides a notice of recent events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m to 6 p. m."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The automatic substation is defined, and its history is traced from the first station placed in service in 1914 to the present time. The number of automatically controlled railway stations up to the beginning of 1922 is given as 142 equipments totaling 86,000 kw. Outside the city of Cleveland, two-unit stations have been installed in but four instances, although a number of these stations are now under construction. With manually operated stations, especially in interurban work, the location of stations is determined by local conditions, availability of labor, etc. rather than by load conditions. But with the advent of the automatic substation it is possible to locate stations more nearly at the proper points to take care of the system loads giving improved voltage conditions with a minimum of feeder copper. Accessory advantages, in addition to the labor saving item, include a reduction in running light losses, a reduction in distribution losses, lower cost of substation and, in some cases, an actual retirement of existing feeder copper. An example is cited of a double track line 80 miles long with figures from a report which shows a net annual return on the investment, including 6 per cent interest, of 34.9 per cent. The labor saving is based on two twelve-hour shifts, and it is further calculated that with three eight-hour shifts the annual saving would be increased by an appreciable figure. The Des Moines City Railway was the first system to install a group of automatic substations for city service, while the Cleveland Railway Company is given credit for installing the first two-unit automatic substation for metropolitan railway service. Reasons are advanced for using two-unit stations in Cleveland in contrast to the general practise of employing single-unit stations in interurban work. Emphasis is laid on the necessity for absolutely uninterrupted service in a large city system, even under such emergencies as either an interruption of the a-c. power supply, or short circuit due to breaking of the trolley wire. A further comparison between the operation of manual and automatically controlled substations is taken from one of the surveys made in Cleveland. The tabulation indicates a net annual saving of $13,900 per year for the automatic over the existing stations. As to the reliability of automatic control equipments, conclusion is reached that an operator is very unlikely to anticipate trouble, whereas with automatic control the protective equipment operates so successfully that various interruptions are a rare occurrence. There is also the possibility of an operator making an error in judgment, thereby causing trouble which might not otherwise occur. A further consideration which should not be overlooked is the possibility of loss of operators due to strikes or other causes. An outline of the equipment used in the Cleveland stations is given with special reference to outgoing feeders and the proposed method of eliminating current-limiting resistance. Description is also given of the remote control equipment now being manufactured, which will enable the several automatic stations to be supervised from a central point by a dispatcher."
"This paper is essentially a treatment of certain types of coupled circuit networks by methods similar to those used in the discussion of the properties of long lines with distributed constants. This method of treating those coupled circuit chains to which it can be applied far surpasses other methods of treatment in several important ways. First, the number of elements in the chain can be made as large as desired without complicating the problem in any way whatsoever. Second, the very method of treatment leads directly to the rational design of selective systems of a type which the older methods of treatment did not even show to exist. Third, this method of attacking the problem is much better adapted to a transient state treatment (following the methods of J. R. Carson and T. C. Fry) than the older methods of handling the coupled circuit problem. In the second section of this paper there is developed the general theory of the properties of identical circuits coupled so as to form a chain. The equations giving the current and voltage of any circuit in the chain are identical in form with those giving the current and voltage at any point of a long line with distributed constants. The propagation constant however, instead of being an algebraic function of the circuit constants and the impressed frequency as in the case for the line with distributed constants, is a transcendental function of the circuit constants and the frequency of the current being transmitted. The nature of this transcendental function is such that sharp changes occur in the characteristic curve which portrays the attenuation constant as a function of the frequency. The third section shows how, by proper termination and design, these sharp changes in the attenuation frequency characteristic can be employed to build up filter networks. The fourth section gives an application of the general theory by presenting a detailed treatment of simple series circuits magnetically coupled so as to form a chain. In this section a number of curves is presented. These curves give a visual picture of the general theory and bring out points useful in the designing of selective networks which must meet preassigned requirements. The fifth section discusses the problem of building up filters using sections of many different types. General methods of attacking this problem are given and design formulas for three different types of filter sections which may be used together in building up a filter system, are derived. Curves are given which illustrate the methods of building up desirable characteristics. The design of selective systems is put upon a rational basis."
"The transient crest meter was developed to investigate several pressing problems in high-voltage transients. It consists of a gold leaf electroscope in series with a rectifying device, an electron tube, which enables the electroscope to charge, but prohibits discharge. The charge that is captured in this manner is proportional to the maximum impressed potential, and where adequate insulation is possible, will remain substantially undiminished for many seconds or even minutes after the transient has passed by. The instrument described is thus seen to be essentially a crest voltmeter. By the proper use of inductance, resistance, and capacitance it is possible to make the applied voltage dependent upon the maximum peak, maximum slope, or maximum area of current and voltage waves, thus giving information regarding the character as well as the size of the transient. The method of calibration, and the precautions that must be taken in measuring transients with this instrument are pointed out in detail in the paper. In particular, care must be taken to carefully insulate the gold leaf. The minute charge stored at several hundred volts makes it necessary to employ special vacuum bulbs with the filament and plate leads coming through opposite ends of the tube. The crest meter has already served successfully in several investigations. The first application was the measurement of the potential of the sphere electrode of a high-voltage oscillator. The method followed consisted in measuring the charging current to the sphere by means of a shielded electroscope resting within this electrode. When combined with a second gold leaf acting as relay contact to give an alarm at a given voltage, the instrument is admirably suited for the study of transmission system disturbances, for the observer need be tied no closer to the test than remain within hearing distance of an electric bell. Such an application was made during four months of the past summer on a 110 kv. line belonging to the Pacific Gas & Electric Company, in an effort to discover the cause of apparently unprovoked flashovers which this particular line experiened from time to time. Other similar applications become evident as their need arises."
"A neutral grounding reactor (Petersen Coil) has been in operation on the system of the Alabama Power Company since October 12, 1921. This is the first of these devices in this country, although there are perhaps several hundred of them in operation in Europe. The present paper discusses the tests made shortly after installation of this reactor. A companion paper by Messrs. J. M. Oliver and W. W. Eberhardt, discusses the operation of the reactor for a period of about a year. It is believed that this device has a somewhat limited use in this country on account of the prevalence and popularity of the solidly grounded neutral. Nevertheless, there are certain installations favorable to the use of the reactor and it is partly the purpose of the present paper to outline the field of this device as well as to show how its rating may be determined for a particular system."
"The work done in the past year in developing commercial forms of lightning arresters based on the “autovalve” principle is reported. Fundamental data given by Dr. Slepian at the 1922 Midwinter Convention are briefly reviewed. The balance of the paper deals with new material and covers further research, development and test. Further research supports the original findings and gives specific information on basic relations. In the development work, required characteristics are first determined, and then structures are developed to give these characteristics. Commercial forms of the arresters are shown and the performance characteristics described, in fundamental units and in comparison with standard electrolytic arresters. Tests in the laboratory and observation under service conditions verify the calculated results and show the “autovalve” arresters designed for station service to parallel the electrolytic in performance. Test methods and results are described and service results reported."
"The development of rail transportation since the day of stage-coaches and horsedrawn tram cars, has been a process of evolution in which some reminders of the past are still noticeable."
"Based upon the theory that the reactance of a three-phase electric furnace does not depend upon the load but is a constant depending on the arrangement of the conductors, the general equations of the three-phase furnace are developed and discussed. It is shown that, due to the fact that the main conductors carrying the current from the interlaced bus bars to the furnace are more or less in one plane, a transformer action is introduced between phase 1 and phase 3, taking power away from 1 and transporting it to 3. The phase rotation being 1, 2, 3. This power may be considerable. When voltages between phases and currents are balanced the power delivered by the three electrodes is quite unbalanced, a fact that is very apparent in large furnaces, electrode 1 seeming dead while electrode 3 takes most of the power. Nevertheless, when only voltage, current and total power are concerned, very simple expressions can be used which are entirely satisfactory in practise. A few methods are suggested to reduce the unbalancing of the load. Finally the two-phase connection of the load is studied to show that the unbalancing of the currents which is inherent in this connection does not check with observations on the furnace under operation. The load must be considered as connected in star, the bottom of the furnace being the neutral. The electric energy is transformed into heat energy in three separate zones situated under the three electrodes. The load resistance is probably furnished by an arc in an atmosphere of vapors under pressure."
"Fig. 43 shows the relations between Ib, Ia and the reflected current, for θ = 180 deg."
"The name pallophotophone has been given to a new device used both for permanently recording speech in a wavy trace on a moving photographic film, and for transforming the air vibrations of sound into exactly corresponding electrical vibrations for transmission directly, for example, to wireless broadcasting generators. The syllables “pallo” of this new word are taken from the Greek and with the following syllable indicate “dancing light.” This particular function, involving a rapidly vibrating beam of light, seems to be the most distinctive one of the combination. To explain the operations briefly perhaps it would be more illuminating to start with resemblances and differences as compared to the well known telephonic devices and talking machines. The dark wavy trace, Fig. 6a, on the films corresponds to the wavy spiral of the victrola disk. “There is the resemblance.” With proper translating means either device can reproduce the sounds recorded. In the translating mechanism is the difference between the two methods of recording speech. The victrola employs a needle set into vibration at one end of a lever, the other end of which is attached to the central point of a thin disk of mica. On the other hand, the dark wavy trace on the photographic film, moved in front of a slot, allows variable amounts of light to fall on a photo-electric cell. In turn, the photo-electric cell varies the electric current passing through it in direct proportion to the change in light. The lower diagram of Fig. 11 shows this arrangement. The human ear cannot hear the wavy light, neither can it hear the variations of current in the photo-electric cell, but if the variations of current are passed into a telephone receiver or loud speaker, either directly or through the intermediary of wireless waves, the diaphragm of the telephone transforms the electric vibrations into air vibrations of sound — “and there you are.” As compared to the simple mechanism of Edison's talking machine, the pallophotophone seems to traverse a wide detour. Each, however, has its particular uses. The pallophotophone has its marked advantages — some of which are quite evident and others hidden until explained. When the artist is available and at the broadcasting studio the pallophotophone dispenses with the record on a film and passes the energy of speech and music to light vibrations, and thence electric vibrations which pass directly to the wireless generators. Important to note, there are no microphones or other telephonic devices involved in these transformations. Nevertheless, the nearest analogous operation to the pallophotophone transmitter is in the familiar telephone transmitter. The telephone has a mouth-piece at the end of which is a diaphragm which vibrates with the sound waves. So also has the pallophotophone. However, its diaphragm is much lighter in weight. But from there on the resemblance disappears. The diaphragm of the telephone receiver pushes against loose particles of carbon and changes their ohmic resistance, thereby giving an electric current proportional to the vibrations of the diaphragm. On the other hand, the diaphragm of the pallophotophone has attached to it, by a lever, a tiny mirror, the combined weight of which is about half that of the head of an ordinary pin. The diaphragm, the lever, and the tiny mirror are the sole mechanical parts which vibrate. The mechanism of the pallophotophone transmitter, being so exceedingly light in weight, is capable of responding to the overtones of sound and music which give the fine distinctive quality and timber of different voices and instruments. While the telephone transmitter still has the practical advantage of compactness, simplicity, and a single step from sound vibration to electric vibrations, it has a greater mass and therefore is unable to respond to the distinctive overtones. While this loss of the overtones has little to do with clearness of speech it takes away from the cultivated enjoyment of musical qualities both of voices and instruments. The pallophotophone has this improving feature that will spread, still further than the telephone can, the emotional pleasures of a fine art. In the pallophotophone the light from an incandescent lamp is focused upon the tiny mirror of the transmitter. The reflected dancing beam of light, illuminating more or less the photo-electric cell, induces a current in the cell corresponding to the frequency and intensity of the sound vibrations that impinge on the diaphragm of the transmitter. Thus the photo-electric cell in the pallophotophone performs a service corresponding to the carbon granules in the telephone transmitter. (Fig. 11). In the realm of small dimensions there are features of interest in what the pallophotophone will accomplish. For example, the photo-electric cell will respond to a movement of the beam of light of one-thousandth inch (0.0024 cm.) at the cell opening, and this movement, too tiny to be visible to the naked eye, will give a fairly loud reproduction of speech or music in a pair of head-phones in the circuit of the first pliotron. Calculating back to the corresponding movement of the diaphragm, the resulting figures seem incredible. The diaphragm's movement is magnified two thousand times in the movement of the light on the photo-electric cell. Therefore, when the light has moved one-thousandth of an inch the diaphragm has moved only a half-millionth of an inch. In other terms, a movement of the diaphragm of only twenty-five times the diameter of a molecule will be reproduced in clear speech and music. If instead of projecting the dancing light on to the photo-electric cell, to translate the dance of light into electric current, the reflected beam of light is caused to fall on a moving film the sound is, so to speak, “canned” photographically on the film for future use. This combination is shown schematically in Fig. 6. The reproduction of the voice either directly or through the means of a film is so identical that hundreds in audiences, who have been asked to decide which reproduction was from the voice directly and which from the film of the same voice, have been unable to distinguish between the two. To follow briefly through the consecutive steps of the pallophotophone — first come the voice vibrations; second, the corresponding vibration of the diaphragm which carries the tiny mirror; and third, reflected from the vibrating mirror the vibration of light which falls either on the moving film to form a permanent record of the sound or, otherwise, on a photo-electric cell which gives faithfully perfect electric oscillations for wireless broadcasting or telephone receivers. The foregoing description gives the essential elements — in addition, there are of course amplifiers of current, motive power for moving films, horns, and the various mechanical parts in detail which will be found described in the text following. The apparatus for reproducing speech from a film is shown in the photograph, Fig. 10."
"The main purpose of this article is to express the calculation of current-carrying capacity in simple formulas. The allowable current for underground cables is usually limited by the maximum permissible temperature of the insulation. The temperature rise is of course a function of the ability of the cable system to dissipate the heat generated. The chief difficulty in the calculation of current-carrying capacity is the determination of the thermal resistances of the path through which the heat must flow. The main part of this paper deals with the errors in the standard formulas for calculating the thermal resistance and geometric properties between the conductors and the sheath. A graphical method of correcting the errors is obtained in terms of what is called the “geometric factor,” the results are tabulated for 2, 3 and 4-conductor cables throughout the range of practical sizes and an empirical formula is given. The check between the results of the graphical correction method and the published experimental data on this subject is very satisfactory, and emphasizes the errors in the standard formulas. The thermal resistance between the sheath and the duct is mentioned briefly, and an approximate method of finding the resistance between the duct and the region at base temperature is outlined. The previous work is then combined into a simple formula giving the allowable current for n-conductor cables, there being any number of similar cables in the duct bank. The formula is also enlarged to cover the case of cables in the metric and square inch systems, and cables buried directly in the ground. The method of including the effect of induced sheath currents in single-conductor cables and of dielectric losses is shown. Finally, the procedure to use in case the cables in the duct bank are not all of the same type is outlined. In Appendix A the geometric factor for three-conductor cables under three-phase voltage is discussed, Russell's formula for this geometric factor being compared with the experimental determinations and an empirical formula for it is given. A formula is also given for the calculation of dielectric losses in three-conductor cables. The geometric factors for three-conductor cables in all other connections (i. e., the geometric factor for one conductor against the other two and sheath, or between any two conductors, etc.) are then derived in terms of the two geometric factors already obtained. In Appendix B are given examples of the calculation of current carrying capacity under various conditions, and of dielectric loss. In Appendix C an example is given which shows the error introduced by using an approximate formula for the calculation of the thermal resistivity of the insulation of a three-conductor cable based upon experimental measurements, the case taken up being a table in the Research on the Heating of Buried Cables."
"This article deals with ceramic raw materials, chiefly clays, quartz and feldspar. CLAYS. The physical properties of clays are of interest. Plasticity is one of the principal properties of clays. The cause of plasticity is probably to be sought in the dispersed nature of the fine clay particles which have the properties of a suspension colloid. Small amounts of alkalies, when added to clay suspensions, cause a marked increase in fluidity. In other words a mass of plastic clay, by adding these alkalies, can actually be converted into a fluid capable of being poured into molds. This application is of great importance commercially since it enables us to form clay articles of a very homogeneous structure without the use of excessive amounts of water and without the high drying shrinkage which would accompany the use of much water. The reactions which take place in firing clay are described. Firing ranges of clays can be determined by the drop in porosity and increase in shrinkage as the firing temperature increases. Continued firing of a clay after it has vitrified produces softening of the mass and produces internal changes including the formation of sillimanite (Al2O3, SiO2) crystals. Continued firing releases gases which produce a porous or vesicular structure known as overfiring. The longer the firing range of a clay the better it is suited for commercial purposes. QUARTZ. Ground quartz which is practically pure silica, (SiO2) in porcelain, serves as a refractory skeleton which increases the stiffness of the mass during firing. Quartz undergoes molecular changes at different temperatures. There are eight forms. Each change is accompanied by a definite volume change. The specific volume starting with the lowest form, increases continuously and abruptly at the inversion points until a final total increase in volume of about 20 per cent is reached when the quartz is fused. FELDSPARS. Used for porcelain contain potash and soda as their fluxing elements. They fuse to glasses at about 1230 deg. cent. (2246 deg. fahr.) Their chemical compositions approximate Na KO Al2O3 6Si O2. They are used as glass forming fluxes in porcelain to cement and unite the other ingredients. Other minerals are also used: — 1. Those which replace feldspar such as alkaline earths. 2. Those which replace quartz and which are preferably constant in volume such as sillimanite, zircon, etc. Porcelains are now being used in which natural and synthetic sillimanite replace quartz, and alkaline earths replace alkalies."
"Drawn wire tantalum filament lamps suffered from crystallization and offsetting so seriously as to restrict their use very generally to direct-current circuits, where these effects were not so pronounced. Drawn wire tungsten filament lamps suffer from similar effects of alternating-current operation, although the manufacturers of Mazda lamps have succeeded in treating the filament in such a manner as to diminish the difficulty to a point where it is of academic rather than practical interest."
"The practise of providing illumination in show windows during the evening hours has long been accepted by merchants as a successful method of promoting sales. However, in the past, there have been few data available which showed the magnitude of the drawing power of different levels of illumination. An investigation was therefore made to provide facts from which the actual value of poorly or brightly illuminated windows could be determined with a reasonable degree of accuracy. The results of this investigation are given in a paper “Effect of Light on the Drawing Power of the Show Window” by Walter Sturrock and J. M. Shute, presented at the annual convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society, September 1922, together with a detailed account of the method of carrying on the investigation and typical log sheets of individual tests."
"Mazda B mill-type lamps, available in the 25 and 50-watt size in the 115-volt class, and in the 50-watt size in the 230-volt class, are designed to fill the need for a lamp which will operate satisfactorily where the service is too severe for Mazda lamps of the regular construction. To those classes of service where severe vibration is encountered are the mill-type lamps particularly adapted."
"Plans for the Spring Convention of the A. I. E. E. have been well matured and as we go to press with this issue of the Journal reports from the Convention Committee at Pittsburgh indicate an enthusiastic meeting with exceptionally good attendance. The subjects to be discussed at this meeting are largely devoted to electrical operation and are expected to prove of unusual interest, especially in the Pittsburgh district where the electrical operation of numerous industries is an outstanding feature."
"New England's latchstring will hang outside the door for the American Institute of Electrical Engineers June 25–29, when the annual summer convention will be held at the New Ocean House, Swampscott, Mass., about fifteen miles from Boston and on the famous North Shore of the Bay State. The local convention committee has been very active in its preparations and has organized an attractive program of work and play for visiting delegates and guests. Local industrial plants, educational institutions and utilities are anticipating visits from many convention attendants; trips to the numerous historic and scenic attractions of eastern Massachusetts are in contemplation, with an attractive program of sports and papers of large significance to the progress of both physical and engineering phases of electrical activity, and the comfort and enjoyment of the ladies are being carefully provided for."
"One of the chief attractions of the Swampscott convention of the Institute will be the beautiful surroundings which will form an appropriate setting for the activities of the delegates, enhanced as these are by a wealth of historical interest closely identified with the early days of our country. There is a charm about this historic atmosphere peculiar to New England; the old-time flavor of colonial days lingers despite the development of modern engineering civilization and New England's brilliant contributions to the later phases of American life and her share in the triumphs of the World War have never dimmed the glories of Lexington and Concord, Bunker Hill and Plymouth. Here were laid the foundations of liberty on this continent; here liberty is still sought amid the changing conditions of present-day industrialism. If the Past has done much for New England, the Present none the less sees her in the midst of a mighty development, and the peculiarities of this region but give added piquancy to its interest and its natural attractions."
"Attention is called to a change in date of the Pacific Coast Convention at Del Monte, Cal., from September 25–28 to October 2–5, 1923."
"The Annual Business Meeting of the Institute will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, Friday afternoon, May 18, 1923, at four o'clock. The results of the annual election of Institute officers will be announced and the report of the Board of Directors for the year ending April 30 will be presented."
"At the meeting of the Standards Committee on May 11, final action will be taken on the following minor changes in the Standards Rules, which have already been tentatively adopted by the Standards Committee."
"The seventh annual meeting of the Pacific Division, American Association for the Advancement of Science to be held in conjunction with a summer session of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the Southwestern Division at the University of Southern California, September 17, 18, 19 and 20, promises to be a unique event in scientific annals. The occasion of this meeting in southern California is primarily the total eclipse of September 10 which will draw to this locality astronomers from all parts of the world. It is estimated that that over 50 visiting astronomers will be present besides the local contingent from Mount Hamilton and Mount Wilson Observatories."
"Baltimore. — May 18, 1923. Subject: “Lighting of Factories and Office Buildings.” Speaker: Earl A. Anderson, Engineer, National Lamp Works."
"News comes from London that Sir Alfred Yarrow has given 100,000 pounds to the Royal Society. His philanthropy is another step toward the identity of effort which engineers and men of science are striving to accomplish throughout the Anglo-Saxon world."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present addresses of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Dr. Schuyler skaats wheeler, engineer, inventor, President of the Crocker-Wheeler Company died suddenly of heart trouble April 20, 1923 at his home, 755 Park Ave., New York. Dr. Wheeler, who was President of the A. I. E. E. 1905–1906 was born in New York, May 17, 1860. He was educated at Columbia College; was awarded D. Sc. from Hobart in 1894 and M. Sc. by Columbia in 1912. In 1881 he left college to become assistant electrician of the Jablochkoff Elec. Light Co. Later he became one of Edison's engineering staff in charge of work at the first power station in 1883, when the incandescent light was introduced, and installed several other stations. In 1886 he left the Edison Co. and was connected with the C & C Motor Company, which with Charles G. Curtis and Francis B. Crocker he helped to organize. They were the pioneer manufacturers of small electric motors. In 1888 the Crocker-Wheeler Co. was organized with Dr. Wheeler as President. During his many years since then as the active head of that company he has been particularly prominent in the development of the electric motor and its application to machine tool drive. Dr. Wheeler was electrical expert for the Board of Electrical Control of New York, 1888–95. Among inventions of Dr. Wheeler's may be named the electric elevator, electric fire engine, series multiple motor control, paralleling of dynamos, etc. He received the John Scott medal of the Franklin Institute in 1904 for invention of the electric fan. Dr. Wheeler was one of the nine incorporators of United Engineering Society in May, 1904, being one of the three representatives of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. He was Trustee of the U. E. S. from 1904 to 1907 and its treasurer for the year 1904–05. In 1901 he presented to the A. I. E. E. the remarkable collection of electrical books of the late Latimer Clark, of London, including practically every known publication in the English language previous to 1886. It was during his term as trustee that the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York was erected by the U. E. S. At Milwaukee in May 1906 Dr. Wheeler delivered his presidential address on “Engineering Honor” and it was from this address that the ideas were taken for the “Code of Ethics” for Electrical engineers finally adopted by the Board of Directors in 1912. He always took an active interest in the work of the Committee on Code of Principles of Professional Conduct of which he was chairman at the time of his death. He was also member of the Edison Medal Committee 1911 to 1916, Research Committee 1920–22; Manager of the Institute 1887–1904, 1904–05; Vice-President 1890–91 and 1902–04; President 1905–06. He was also a member of the A. S. M. E., the University Club, the Chamber of Commerce, Automobile Club, St. Nicholas Society and Somerset Hills Country Club."
"Our apologies are hereby extended to Mr. Walter A. Schmidt, President and General Manager, Western Precipitation Company, Los Angeles, California, for an unfortunate error resulting in the inclusion of his name in our obituary column in the April issue of the Journal, due to confusing his name with that of Mr. Walter Schmidt, of White Plains, New York, whose obituary is published in this issue."
"Provides a notice of recent events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN AVAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"EXECUTIVE available as general manager, work manager, or supervising engineer for financial, utility or industrial corporation. Broad experience organization, financing, administration, production control, economical operation, cost accounting and analysis. E-4250."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The object of this paper is to point out that the existing methods of measuring power when applied to unbalanced three-phase systems are not equitable for symmetrical polyphase machinery. On the other hand, unsymmetrical loads on polyphase systems are not sufficiently penalized for the trouble which they create in the system. It is first of all shown that a symmetrical generator cannot deliver power except through the balanced components of current. The unbalanced currents are capable of resolution into two balanced systems of currents, one of which is of the same phase sequence as the generator e. m. f., and the other component is of reversed or negative phase sequence. The generator cannot deliver power through the medium of this latter component of the currents, because the instantaneous product of the generated voltage and these currents in the three phases is always zero. However, the volt-ampere product per phase is of great significance, because it is a measure of the effect of the current unbalance on the system. The generator therefore delivers power only through the medium of the positive phase sequence currents. Any power that appears in the system through the negative phase sequence currents is positive phase sequence power which has been supplied by the generator and degraded through unbalanced loads and fed back to the system in the form of negative phase sequence power. This power is always additional loss in all rotating machines on the system, and with the present method of charging, the consumer having symmetrical machines is charged with this additional power, which serves him no useful purpose but reduces the output of his machine and decreases his load power factor. In the paper it is proposed that the positive phase sequence power output only be measured, and the power charges be made on the basis of this measurement. It is further proposed that the unbalanced k-va., which is the product of the positive sequence voltage and the negative sequence current be measured either by means of a negative sequence ammeter, indicating or recording, or a k-va. meter, and a charge made for the amount of unbalance. The user of symmetrical polyphase rotating machinery should then be given a lower rate, based on the estimated cost of unbalance, and the consumer having unbalanced loads should be charged directly for the amount of unbalance he creates, or else should have his positive phase sequence power rate increased, based upon the estimated cost of unbalance. It is pointed out that the unbalanced kv-a. is a factor of the same order of importance as reactive kv-a. and in any system subject to unbalanced conditions this factor should be considered and the unbalanced factor, as well as the power factor, should be measured. The unbalanced factor is the ratio of the negative phase sequence kv-a. and the positive phase sequence kv-a., the former being obtained by taking the product of the positive phase sequence voltage and the negative phase sequence current. Devices for measuring these quantities are being developed and the outfit for making these measurements will be no more complicated than the present existing measurement devices. In fact the tendency is towards greater simplicity. In presenting this subject the author has no intention of suggesting how rates should be made, but merely wishes to point out what factors enter into the question of equitable rates when the polyphase system is subject to unbalance."
"THE broadcasting of regular programs of entertainment and instruction was begun in the Fall of 1920. It was not long before the service became quite generally used, although at first this was due to its novelty. Judged by present standards, the character of the programs rendered, and the quality of modulation attained, was susceptible to great improvement; and the development of better apparatus and methods of modulation has gone hand in hand with the broadening of the scope of entertainment offered."
"The alternating-current series motor may be adapted to regeneration in a number of important respects more readily than a similar direct-current series motor on account of the following features: (1) The a-c. motor always employs a cross-field winding which prevents armature distortion. (2) A relatively low impressed commutator voltage is used reducing the danger from flashing. (3) With the a-c. system a transformer can be used to obtain desired variation in motor voltage. The advantages of this feature are outlined at length with reference to its effect on regeneration. The several schemes of regenerative connections are divided into four classes as follows: (1) Series excitation; (2) self-excitation, or cross excitation; (3) shunt excitation; (4) separate excitation. The first two connections have not been commercially used. A number of fundamental assumptions as to the theory of the single-phase motor are given as a basis for vector diagrams, which are used to analyze the conditions for both motoring and regeneration for the four types of connections. A detailed presentation of the conditions which obtain with these connections is then given by the author. When using the first connection for regeneration it is necessary with series excitation to reverse the main field with reference to the motoring conditions. With the alternating-current series motor a sudden decrease in the line voltage will not increase the regenerated current as in the case of direct current, but will tend to decrease it. In a like manner an increased speed with any given impressed voltage will also decrease the regenerated current. Objectionable characteristics are: first, a strong tendency to pick up as a direct-current generator with the secondary transformer winding acting as a short circuit; second, a like tendency for low-frequency currents to be set up; third, undesirable speed torque characteristics. These features are cited as the reasons for not seriously considering this type of motor and connection for railway application with regeneration in this country. The second system employs an extra set of brushes located midway between the normal brushes on the commutator. This system is handicapped by the fact that armatures and also the commutators of the motors must have increased capacity because of the necessity for carrying exciting as well as load currents during regeneration. This is particularly objectionable on account of the space limitations existing in connection with railway application. Another disadvantage is the necessity for extra brushes around the commutator. This method of connection, however, has the advantage of giving a shunt speed torque characteristic and permitting power factor compensation during regeneration. The third connection using the so-called shunt excitation has the advantage of simplicity and reliability. The chief disadvantage lies in the fact that power factor correction cannot be made during regeneration. It is handicapped to some extent, due to the fact that the same continuous torque between armature and field winding cannot be obtained as was possible with the series connection. In a majority of commercial applications, however, this connection will provide sufficient tractive effort. Only two units are required to obtain regeneration: first, a substantial reactor and, second, a change-over switch for controlling the same. The fourth system utilizes separate exciters either of the (1) constant speed or (2) variable speed type. Under the constant speed systems, either phase converters or motor generator sets may be used. With the variable speed, either separate axle generators or one of the main motors is used as an exciter. This system, although in general requiring more apparatus for regeneration (hence costing and weighing more) than some of the other systems, is also more flexible. The desired speed torque characteristics can be obtained and, with a constant speed exciter, power factor compensation is available as well as power for driving auxiliary apparatus. The conclusion is reached that regeneration can be properly and successfully obtained with one or more of the several systems outlined. In the several appendices, explanation is made of the vector diagrams by means of which the author analyzes the conditions for each system of connection."
"Review of the Subject. — There are many engineering problems which can be solved step by step, and there are others which contain two or more inter-dependent unknown quantities and therefore cannot be solved step by step. For example, the diameter of a short transmission shaft, mainly subjected to torsion, can be computed directly for a desired shearing stress; then the pulley can be designed, the belt for the pulley, etc. This is a step-by-step solution. On the other hand, let it be required to determine the diameter D and the length L of a cylindrical tank, to hold a given quantity of liquid and to possess a given cooling surface. — This problem either requires-two simultaneous equations for D and L, or else has to be solved by trials. The problem of determining theoretically the internal voltage drop and voltage regulation of a given synchronous generator at a given load is one of the second kind, that is, several conditions must be satisfied simultaneously. The problem of predetermining the armature current and the power factor of a given synchronous motor at a given excitation and load is of a similar nature. The purpose of the kinematic device described in the paper is to enable one to solve these two problems on synchronous machines mechanically, almost without any mathematics and without constructing vector diagrams. The device can be used even by a person who does not know its theory, just as thousands of computers who use the slide rule could not explain the theory of its scales. A knowledge of the performance characteristics of a synchronous machine is of considerable practical importance, both to its designer and to the user; it has therefore been deemed advisable to simplify and to standardize the procedure so as to make the process as nearly automatic as possible. This should give more time to progressive engineers to think about other problems connected with synchronous machinery, problems which are only partly solved, such as the temperature rise, insulation, transient phenomena, etc. Two factorsin particular complicate the performance of synchronous machines (especially with salient poles), namely the armature reaction and the variable saturation of the magnetic circuit. The effect of the armature reaction is to weaken (or to strengthen) the field flux and also to shift it sidewise. The method of predetermination of voltage regulation given in the A. I. E. E. Standards is admittedly an approximate one, and in designing the Blondelion a more accurate method of taking these two components of the armature reaction into account has been used. This method is known as Blondel's theory of two armature reactions. The curves in Figs. 10 to 13 show a close check between the experimental curves of certain machines and the points read off on the kinematic device. The Blondelion can be readily simplified for use in accordance with the A. I. E. E. method. The variable saturation of the magnetic circuit is taken care of in the device automatically, by means of a proper linkage. To illustrate the principle upon which the Blondelion is built, let us take again the above-mentioned tank problem and see how a mechanical device could be made for its solution. Let various values of tank diameter D be marked on a certain scale and let the values of tank length L be marked on another scale. Assume that each scale has an index which can slide along it and that these two indexes are kinematically so interconnected that a pointer indicates directly the corresponding volume of the tank on a third scale. The arrangement is somewhat indefinite in that the same volume can be obtained with an infinite number of combinations of values of D and L. Let now the same indexes be also interconnected by another kinematic linkage, such that another pointer, on a fourth scale, gives directly the area of the cylinder. Here again, an infinite number of combinations of D and L will give the same area. In order, however, to make the third pointer indicate a desired volume, and the fourth pointer simultaneously indicate a desired area, the D and L indexes have to be set at perfectly definite points on their respective scales. These points are readily found by shifting the indexes back and forth. The problem is thus solved, and to use the device one does not even have to know either the cylinder formulas or the nature of the kinematic linkages. In a synchronous machine there are certain four conditions (explained in the paper), which must be satisfied simultaneously. Therefore, the Blondelion has four independent linkages each of which may assume almost any desired shape. When, however, these linkages are interconnected and certain points and lengths are fixed, the remaining links assume perfectly definite positions, and the desired unknown lengths (which stand for electrical quantities) can be read off directly. In other words, the four linkages represent a system of four simultaneous equations with four unknown quantities, just as the above described tank linkage represents two equations with two unknown quantities. In both cases the solution is entirely automatic, and with properly designed linkages cannot be wrong if the particular setting is right."
"The usual methods of testing alternating-current high-voltage paper-insulated cables are based upon the ability of the insulating material to withstand excessive potentials in order to determine its condition. Accordingly, these methods are not suitable for routine tests imposed for the purpose of determining the degree of deterioration existing in any particular cable. In an effort to develop a routine test, which will serve to detect an impending fault, use has been made of the kenotron as the source of high-potential direct-current. By means of it a large volume of data has been secured concerning the input-current, for a cable, as a function of time after complete electrification at a constant high potential. These data when plotted, as curves, show by their shape the condition of the cable insulation. Curves showing a sharp decrease in the magnitude of input-current during the first minute and a gradual but persistent rate of decay for the succeeding six or seven minutes indicate that the insulation is in an acceptable condition from the operating point of view. Curves showing little, if any, decrease or a persistent tendency to increase during the time interval of the test indicate that the insulation has deteriorated to such a point that the cable may be expected to fail at an early date if retained in service. The degree of deterioration is indicated first: by the time which has elapsed since complete electrification before the increase occurrs, and second: by the sharpness of the upward trend of the curve in any instance. The value of this method of testing has been demonstrated by its actually having detected a considerable number of impending cable faults before they became a menace in operation. Additional refinements in the methods of measuring the input-current for different classes of cables may be desirable. Further investigations are being carried on to determine this necessity. Investigations of certain theoretical features are also being carried on. These include, among other things, oscillographic studies of the input-current and voltage under test conditions."
"Review of the Subject. — During the year 1920 the total production of Portland Cement in the United States was 99,694,000 barrels. Of this amount 25,197,000 barrels or, approximately, 25 per cent were made in the Lehigh District, or in the plants located in Eastern Pennsylvania, and New Jersey. On account of the industrial depression the production for the year 1921 was somewhat lower than that stated above. If we assume that one barrel of cement is made with an expenditure of energy amounting to 16 kw-hr., it will be seen that there is required in the 20 mills which comprise the plants in the Lehigh district, an aggregate load of approximately 46,000 kw. to make the 25,197,000 barrels for one year. These figures are interesting in view of the fact that so much thought is being expended today on the superpower system. It is well to remember, however, that about 80 per cent of the total energy required to make a barrel of Portland cement can be obtained by utilizing the heat in the waste gases from the rotary kilns; the balance, or 20 per cent, will have to be either generated by ordinary methods, or purchased from power companies. At the present time comparatively few cement plants are utilizing the waste heat from the rotary kilns, but from the success which has been obtained by those who installed the waste heat system, there is every indication that before long the major portion of the power required in cement plants will be obtained from the heat now carried off in the stack gases."
"Review of the Subject. — A small bungalow in a grove of oak trees just outside of Riverhead, Long Island, with a line of poles along a country road, carrying two copper wires, and ending by a stream nine miles southwest of Riverhead, — this in brief describes the Atlantic coast “ear” of the Radio Corporation of America, where the wireless messages from England, France, Germany and Norway are received, disentangled, amplified, converted into current of telephonic frequency and automatically relayed over telephone circuits to the Broad St. Office in New York, where operators take the messages by ear, or automatic recorders mark the dots and dashes on tape. The present paper deals with the two copper wires on the line of poles, for they constitute the wave antenna which has not only marked a distinct advance in the reduction of interference and “static,” but because of its aperiodic nature and effectiveness as an energy collector, has made possible the sumultaneous reception of a large number of messages by one antenna, and the automatic relaying of the messages over land wires. The use of two wires is not an essential feature of the wave antenna but permits flexibility in the location of the receiving station. In its elementary form the wave antenna consists of a straight horizontal conductor. (See Fig. 10) of the order of a wave length long, parallel to the direction of propagation of the desired signal, with the receiving circuit located at the end farthest from the sending station and with the end nearest the sending station grounded through a resistance of the proper value to practically prevent reflections. Under these conditions the desired signal waves produce comparatively feeble currents at the end nearest the sending station and strong currents at the receiver end, while disturbances coming from the opposite direction cause feeble currents at the receiver end and strong currents at the end farthest from the receiver (nearest the transmitting station) (See Fig. 2). This comparative immunity of the receiving set to disturbances coming from a direction opposite to the desired signal is lost if reflections are permitted to occur at the end farthest from the receiver. The growth of current in the direction of travel of the space wave depends on the velocity of propagation of waves on the antenna in comparison with the velocity of the space waves, the received current being strongest if the two are equal. If the characteristic wave velocity on the antenna is less than that of the space waves (or less than the velocity of light) increasing the length of the antenna increases the received current up to a certain point, after which further increase in antenna length reduces the received current. The length for maximum signal depends on the velocity ratio and wave length. The slower the antenna or the shorter the wave length received the shorter the length for maximum signal. It is very frequently the case, however, that the best directive properties are obtained with an antenna longer than that which gives the strongest signal. The effect of the space wave is to produce in the wire a signal frequency electromotive force which affects the different parts of the antenna progressively as the space wave passes over the line. On this basis the received current can be calculated in terms of the frequency and intensity of the induced electromotive force, the direction of the space waves and the length and electrical constants of the antenna. By assuming the direction to be changed while all other factors remain the same, and calculating the relative value of received current for various directions of signal wave, we can determine the directive properties of the antenna. The result is best shown by means of a polar directive curve. For each assumed direction for which the received current has been calculated, a radius is drawn, with length proportional to the received current. The curve drawn through the ends of these radii is known as the directive curve for the antenna. Directive curves are given (Figs. 35 to 41) which bring out the effects of antenna length, relative to the wave length, velocity of propagation, and line attenuation. The directive curves are for the most part drawn with the maximum radius taken as unit length, since this makes comparisons of directive curves easier. In general, it is found that moderate line losses are not appreciably detrimental to the directive properties of the antennas, while the fact that velocities obtainable with unloaded lines are materially below that of light, results in an actual improvement in directive properties in most cases. As a rule the longer the antenna the sharper its directive curve. While it is possible to obtain fair directive properties with antennas less than a half wave length long, this length is considered about the shortest that can be recommended. By a process of balancing, it is possible to produce a “blind spot” or direction of zero reception, at any angle more than 90 deg. from the signal. One method of obtaining this result is by producing reflections of certain phase and intensity at the end opposite to the receiver. Reflections at the receiver end of the antenna, on the other hand, do not alter the directive properties of the antenna. Experimental work thus far has given a qualitative check on the theory and calculations of the wave antenna, and it is hoped that further observations and measurements will shortly be made. Experimental data on wave front tilt, on which the action of the wave antenna depends, is especially meagre. Data on wave velocity and line losses on an existing antenna can be obtained by means of a radio frequency oscillator and one or two hot-wire milliammeters. Measurements taken by the writers show much higher attenuation and lower velocities for ground return circuits than for metallic circuits. Ground resistance explains this effect. The mean depth of return currents at the longer radio wave lengths appear to be of the order of several hundred feet. The more wires in multiple in the antenna, the lower the velocity and the higher the rate of attenuation (See Fig. 66 and 68). Reduction of atmospheric disturbances or “static”, has probably received more attention from experimenters than any other one phase of radio reception. Of the various lines of attack none has been more fruitful than the employment of directive receiving systems. Every increase in directivity has resulted in an improvement in stray ratio. The wave antenna carries the principle farther than any previous type. Conditions on the eastern coast of North America are especially favorable for taking advantage of differences in direction, for the European stations are to the northeast while the predominating direction of static is from the southwest. Various practical engineering problems in connection with the wave antenna, including its application to short wave reception, are discussed toward the close of the paper."
"During recent years the value of presenting data by a plotted line has been recognized in all branches of industry. However, in all cases where data are so presented, there are none where graphical representation is more useful than in spectrophotemetry. In presenting such data, each author has usually used his own methods in plotting and a lack of uniformity has been the result. The material in this paper has been compiled with a view to presenting some of the details in plotting spectrophotometric curves which will aid in establishing a uniformity of practise."
"Buildings and objects on the street having a greater relative brightness than the objects in a show window are reflected in the plate glass hindering the visibility of the display in the window. Such reflections are a source of considerable annoyance in show windows. The apparent transparency of the glass is reduced to such an extent that it is impossible to discern the details of a display within the window; the result is a corresponding decrease in the effective value of the display. When one realizes that store managers whose windows are located on an important, busy street estimate the advertising value of their windows at from $50,000 to $150,000 a year, the undesirability of daytime reflections can be appreciated."
"Announcement has previously been made of the publication of Bureau of Standards Circulars 120 and 121, entitled “Construction and Operation of a Simple Homemade Radio Receiving Outfit” and “Construction of a Two-Circuit Radio Receiving Equipment with Crystal Detector,” respectively. These two circulars describe crystal detector receiving sets and either of them can be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C., at 5 cents a copy."
"In high-voltage power circuits, such as transmission lines and the high-voltage coils of large power transformers, not infrequently disturbances are observed of a frequency differing from, and usually very much higher than that of the power supply, and differing from the typical transient of energy readjustment, in that they do not gradually die out, but increase in intensity until either destruction occurs, or they finally limit themselves. Such cumulative oscillations or arcing grounds derive their energy from the machine power of the system, and so constitute a frequency transformation, of which the mechanism has been little understood. Physically they may be derived from the typical condenser discharge by the conception of a negative resistance, in combination with a source of power, which supplies the energy given out by the negative resistance. Attention is drawn to a class of conductors — to which arcs and gas discharges belong — the so-called “third-class conductors,” in which the voltage decreases with increase of current, and it is shown that these conductors can be considered as a combination of a negative resistance with a source of power, and as such are capable of transforming the low machine frequency into a high oscillation frequency of alternating currents, and their presence in an electric system thereby may produce cumulative oscillations. The general equations are then derived of a system comprising a third-class conductor shunted by an inductive circuit containing capacity, and supplied with voltage over an inductive circuit from an alternating low-frequency source, and it is shown that in such a system currents and voltages of two distinct frequencies may continuously exist, of which the one is the machine frequency, the other a high oscillation frequency. It is further shown that the voltage of the latter is limited only by the resistance of the oscillating circuit, and in low-resistance circuits may build up to very high values. Furthermore, the high oscillation frequency is essentially limited to the circuit shunting the third-class conductor and but little of it enters the supply circuit, while the supply frequency enters the shunt circuit to a limited extent only, and both frequencies are superimposed in the third-class conductor as the frequency converter."
"Review of the Subject. — A general survey is presented of the nature and distribution of failures and interruptions due to lightning upon the circuits of a large city supply system. Recommendations are given for improving conditions without specifying particular makes of arresters, in recognition of the fact that a considerable number of different types is proving adequate to meet the conditions imposed upon them on the moderate voltage systems under consideration. The subject is treated under three principal divisions: 1st. Troubles on 115–230 volt distribution circuits. 2nd. The 2300. volt circuits, and 3rd. The 13,200 volt circuits. It is shown that line failures on the low-voltage circuits are so infrequent as to be practically negligible, and that the blowing of fuses and injuries to other parts of the equipment on customer's premises are infrequent except in the case of house meters. A considerable number of meter burn outs are recorded, and it is shown that trouble from this source increases with the length of the secondary circuit. To guard against future trouble, especially as secondary networks are developed, it is recommended that a simple spark gap or other equivalent type of arrester be installed at the customer's premises as a part of the equipment in his service box. For the 2300 volt circuits, it is found that lines which run over high ground and open country are more exposed to transformer burn outs and the blowing of transformer fuses than lines in the built-up sections where buildings screen the circuit. Also, that the amount of damage to the exposed lines decreases as the number of arresters increases and that a transformer directly protected by an arrester is in a very large measure guaranteed against complete breakdown and to a less extent against the blowing of its fuses from lightning. Also, that the effectiveness of this protection is decreased with high resistance in the ground connection. Finally, for the 13,200-volt aerial circuits, it is shown that on lines at a considerable distance from generating points most of the damage from lightning is in insulator breakages and without interruption to service, but where line reactance is not sufficient to prevent flow of heavy dynamic current at the time of discharge, the conductor is often fused allowing the line to fall. To guard against these troubles, arresters should be distributed along the line at not more than two mile intervals and near generating stations the three arresters of a group should be mounted on successive poles and provided with independent ground connections."
"Prospects for a splendid convention at Pittsburgh April 24–26, indicate a program that will be very attractive to operating engineers. The Protective Devices Committee has furnished the keynote papers for the meeting and has assembled a splendid group of papers which will be presented at three sessions. The other two technical sessions will contain papers of general interest, one or two papers on the electric furnace and papers on the application of radio to interstation communication and to multiple street lighting control are expected to be available."
"Plans are well under way for the June Convention which will be held at Swampscott, Mass., June 25–29. A feature of the convention will be a lecture by Captain R. R. Belknap, U. S. N., on the “North Sea Mine Barrage.” Captain Belknap will illustrate the lecture and bring out the electrical features associated with the war job of adequately placing mines in the North Sea during the war."
"The Pacific Coast Convention Committee at its last meeting confirmed the tentative decision to hold the convention at Del Monte, Cal., September 25–28. It was also decided to hold three technical sessions at which nine papers will be presented, each representing an outstanding problem now facing the industry. Seven of the subjects have been announced as follows:"
"The constantly increasing importance and popularity of the Institute Midwinter Conventions in New York was emphasized by the results of the eleventh annual Midwinter Convention held in the Institute headquarters, New York, February 14–17. This convention easily surpassed all its predecessors in points of attendance, variety and character of papers presented and novelty and scope of its entertainment features. The registered attendance of members and guests totaled about 1200 and the attendance at the technical sessions was so large that it was found necessary to transfer several sessions from the fifth floor assembly rooms for which they were scheduled, to the main auditorium."
"The convention was formally opened by President Jewett who called the first session to order Wednesday afternoon at 2.30 o'clock. After a few words of welcome Pres. Jewett disclaimed any intention of prolonging an already crowded program by making a formal address, and introduced Mr. E. B. Meyer, chairman of the Transmission and Distribution Committee, who presided during the rest of the session. The following papers were then abstracted by their authors:"
"President Jewett called the joint New York-Chicago Meeting to order Wednesday evening. This session was one of unusual interest, being the first meeting ever held in which two audiences 1000 miles apart were connected by means of two-way long-distance telephones with loud speaking instruments. All of the addresses, papers and discussions were also broadcasted. The significance of the meeting was well brought out in the opening remarks of President Jewett who said:"
"One of the parallel sessions on Thursday morning was under the auspices of the Telephony and Telegraphy Committee and President Jewett, after opening the meeting turned it over to O. B. Blackwell, chairman of that committee, who presided. Three papers were presented by the authors as follows:"
"This session was called to order at 2.30 p. m. by Mr. O. B. Blackwell, Chairman of the Telephone and Telegraph Committee and after preliminary remarks he called for the presentation of the paper Machine Switching Telephone System for Large Metropolitan Areas. The paper was presented by Mr. Morehouse and the discussion which followed was by F. B. Jewett, Bancroft Gherardi, L. D. Bale, F. J. Chesterman, E. B. Craft and H. P. Charlesworth. The next paper Wind Shielding Between Conductors, was presented by the author, F. J. Howe and discussed by F. L. Rhodes, E. C. Keenan and K. L. Wilkinson. The last paper of the session entitled The Wave Antenna, by Harold H. Beverage, Chester W. Rice, and Edward W. Kellogg, was presented by Mr. Kellogg and discussed by O. B. Blackwell."
"Mr. F. W. Peek, Jr., Chairman of the Electrophysics Committee presided at this session and after some remarks by President Jewett, called for the presentation of the following papers: Dissymmetrical Electrical Networks, by A. E. Kennelly; Physical Interpretation of Complex Angles and Their Functions, by A. Boyajian; Radiation from Transmission Lines, by Charles Manneback; New Equation for Static Characteristics of Electrical Arcs, by W. B. Nottingham; Electromagnetic Forces; A Search for More Rational Fundamentals; A Proposed Revision of the Laws, by Carl Hering; Permeability, by T. Spooner."
"The final technical session of the convention was called to order by Mr. John Mills, in the absence of President Jewett, and after some brief remarks Mr. Geo. A. Sawin, Chairman of the Instruments and Measurements Committee took the chair. The following papers were then abstracted by their authors:"
"On Thursday, February 15, several hundred members and guests of the convention visited the publishing plant of the McGraw-Hill Company, where a buffet luncheon was served, followed by an inspection trip through this company's large and well-equipped publishing plant. The visitors were transported from the headquarters of the Institute to the McGraw-Hill plant at 10th Ave. and 36th St., by means of busses. They assembled on the 12th floor, where after a brief address of welcome by a representative of the company, luncheon was served. The party was divided into different groups of about a dozen each, and each group was in charge of a guide who conducted it through every part of the plant, including the business, editorial and art department and through the mechanical department, which includes printing, binding and mailing. The visit was thoroughly enjoyed by all who attended and the visitors were brought back to the Engineering Societies Building just in time for the afternoon session."
"A reprint of the Code of Principles of Professional Conduct, adopted by the A. I. E. E. in 1912, has recently been published and is available for free distribution upon application to the secretary of the Institute. This brings to mind the decided trend during the past few years toward the formulation and adoption of codes of ethics by numerous organizations in different fields of activity. Such codes have become important agencies in upholding high ideals in the constantly broadening social, economic and industrial relations of the various groups concerned."
"On January 22, 1923 the organization meeting of the Southern Virginia Section of the A. I. E. E. was held at Richmond, Va. The meeting was called to order by W. C. Bell and the following Executive Committee was elected: W. C. Bell, Chairman; H. C. Leonard, Secretary; C. H. Quinn, W. S. Rodman, L. W. Webb. By-laws were adopted and resolutions passed advocating cooperation with various other engineering societies in the State in the formation of a Technical Council. An informal discussion of plans for the ensuing year followed."
"The governing bodies of Columbia University have placed at the disposal of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers a scholarship in Electrical Engineering in the Schools of Mines, Engineering and Chemistry of Columbia University. The scholarship pays $350 toward the annual tuition fees which vary from $340 to $360, according to the details of the course selected. Reappointment of the student to the scholarship for the completion of his course is conditioned upon the maintenance of a good standing in his work."
"Through the generous gift of Mr. Cyril F. Elwell, there is available in the Electrical Engineering Department of Stanford University for the academic year 1923–24 a scholarship carrying a stipend of $500. This scholarship is designated by the authorities of the University the “Elwell Scholarship.”"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The First Annual Meeting of the Bombay Association of the Institution of Engineers (India) was held on November 28 and 29 at Bombay. Two papers were presented: “The Advantages and Disadvantages of the Intercepting Trap in the Drainage System in Bombay,” by K. B. Dadyburjor, and “Pulverized Coal as a Fuel,” by T. S. Dawson. There were two inspection trips, and a dinner on the last evening at the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel."
"Some months ago the United Engineering Society adopted a resolution offering the facilities of meeting rooms in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, to the members of the American Section of the French Society of Civil Engineers. The invitation was accepted and a few meetings have been held."
"The next annual meeting of the Electric Power Club will be held on June 11th to 14th, inclusive, at the Homestead, Hot Springs, Virginia, where this Association was organized in 1908."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"The following extracts are taken from the report of the Treasurer of the United Engineering Society, covering the calendar year 1922:"
"Robert E. Chetwood, Plant Engineer of the Western Union Telegraph Company, died on Thursday, January 25, 1923. Mr. Chetwood who was born in Elizabeth, N. J., February 15, 1873 was a graduate in electrical engineering of Lehigh University, class of 1895. He immediately entered the Engineering Dept. of the A. T. & T. Co., specializing in the construction and maintenance of the outside plant. He left the A. T. & T. in 1910 to become Engineer of Construction for the Western Union Telegraph Co. Eventually be became Plant Engineer in charge of the engineering design of the entire plant including buildings and equipment. He held that position at the time of his death. Mr. Chetwood entered the A. I. E. E. as an Associate in 1903 and transferred to Member in 1912. He was a member of the Telegraphy and Telephony Committee from 1916 to 1921 then becoming Chairman for the year 1922–23. He was also a member of the Meetings and Papers Committee for 1922–23."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street."
"Provides a notice of recent events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"OPPORTUNITIES. — Desirable opportunities for service from responsible sources are announced in this Bulletin, and no charge therefor is made. MEN A VAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. Announcements will not be repeated except upon request received after a period of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files. NOTE. — Notices for the JOURNAL should be addressed EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., the employment clearing house of the National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers. Notices for the JOURNAL are not acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will appear in the issue of the following month. All replies to either “Opportunities” or “Services Available” should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and forwarded to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, as above. Replies received by the bureau after the position to which they refer has been filled will not be forwarded, and will be held by the bureau for one month only."
"TECHNICAL GRADUATE. Nine years' experience as resident, plant and general electrical engineer. Desires position with established company ase stimator, contractor's follow-up man, installation road representative, or salesman along engineering lines in the metropolitan district. E-4154."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The electric wave-filter, as regards its general transmission characteristics and its extremely important rôle in communication systems, is well known. Its physical theory was discussed in detail in the preceding number ot this Journal by its inventor, G. A. Campbell. In the present paper it is proposed to present systematic general methods of wave-til ter design, together with representative designs, which have been developed in connection with the practical utilization of this desile in the plant of the Bell System."
"IN this paper is described in a general way the interesting application of motor vehicles and their associated apparatus in connection with outside plant construction and maintenance work, outlining through the successive stages of development what has been accomplished in this respect up to the present time. In order to present a comprehensive picture covering this field of activity, the more primitive types of equipment, together with the manual methods of doing work, are shown in comparison with representative instances of higher development during the past few years in which this phase of the work has been given particular consideration."
"The application of telephone repeaters has made it possible to use small gauge cable circuits to handle long distance telephone service over distances up to and exceeding 1,000 miles. A general picture of the long toll cable system which is being projected for use in the northeastern section of the United States was presented recently by Mr. Pilliod and published in the July number of the Technical Journal. Many of the circuits in these toll cables are so long electrically that a number of effects, which are comparatively unimportant in ordinary telephone circuits, become of large and sometimes controlling importance. For example, the time required for voice energy to traverse the circuits becomes very appreciable so that reflections of the energy may produce “echo” effects very similar to echoes of sound. The behavior of the circuits under transient impulses, even when two-way operation is not involved so that “echoes” are not experienced, is very important. In order to keep within proper limits of variation of efficiency with frequency over the telephone range special corrective measures are necessary. Owing to the small sizes of the conductors, the attenuations in the longer circuits are very large. Special methods are, therefore, required to maintain the necessary stability of the transmission, including automatic means for adjustment of the repeater gains to compensate for changes in the resistance of the conductors caused by temperature changes."
"IN many importa nt practical operations the constant probability of an event happening in a single trial is extremely small. but the number of trials is so large that the event may actually occur a sufficient number of times to become a matter of importance. The curves of Figs. 1 and 2 show the probability P of such an event happening at least c times in a number of trials for which the average number of occurrences is a. The probability range shown is from 0.000001 to O.999999 and the average extends from 0 to 15 in Fig. 1 and to 200 in Fig. 2. An open scale is obtained at both ends, even when the probability approaches to within one part in a million of the limits 0 and 1, by employing an ordinate scale corresponding to the normal probability integral."
"Many no doubt, have seen copies of th e Bell system sleet storm map which has been prepared to show t he relative in tensities and frequencies of sleet storms throughout the United States. In the midst of the current sleet storm season it may be of interest to discuss some of the factors which have led to the preparation of this map, and to outline in a general way, the means by which its indications are utilized in the design, construction and upkeep of the pole and aerial wire plant."
"This paper has a very direct bearing upon the pumping or exhausting of the vacuum tubes used in telephone repeaters and similar thermionic tubes. The telephone repeater bulb, as is well known, holds a vacuum of the order of 10=6 mm. of mercury. In order to produce this vacuum it is necessary during the manufacture of the tube to not only remove the air from the space within the bulb but also to allow very considerable amounts of various gases to diffuse out from within the glass of the bulb and the metal parts of the tube structure. The volume of gas which is frequently removed from the metal plates, for instance, may be roughly estimated as 100 times the volume of the plates themselves, the volume of the gas being measured at atmospheric pressure. To remove these gases from the bulb and metal parts, it is necessary to maintain during the pumping process a temperature which is far above the normal temperature and a fair degree of vacuum within the bulb for a period of time which varies from a few minutes to an hour or more depending upon the type of tube. With a view to simplifying the pumping process, the authors have found that a glass relatively free from absorbed gases can be produced by using special precautions in manufacture. The authors have also measured and analysed the gases evolved from glasses of various composition. Seven different samples representing four distinct types of glass have been experimented with. Six of these samples of glass have been carefully analyzed and definite relations found between the amounts and kinds of gases evolved and the chemical composition of the glasses. — Editor."
"THE electric wave-filter has been very fully discussed with respect to its remarkable steady-state properties.1 In the present paper it is proposed to give the results of a fairly extensive t heoretical study of its behavior in the transient state. This study is of particular interest and importance in connection with the wave-filter, because, as we shall find, its remarkable selective characteristics are peculiarly properties of the steady state and become sharply defined only as the steady state is approached. To this fact, it may be remarked in passing, is to be ascribed the uniform failure of wave-filters to suppress irregular and tran sient interference, such as “static,” in anything like the degree with which they discriminate against steady-state currents outside the transmission range. This limitation is common to all types of selective networks and restricts the amount of protection it is possible to secure from transient or irregular interference. In fact the general conclusions of the present study are applicable to all types of selective circuits."
"IN the January issue of this Journal was discussed the adaptation of transportation equipment to telephone construction and maintenance work. Closely associated with the operation of such equipment is the problem of utilizing various labor-saving machinery which in many cases has been so designed as to form an integral part of the transportation unit."
"IN connection with many teleph one problems of an economic character, it is necessary to develop methods for making estimates and forecasts of the effects of changes in conditions. When the changes in conditions are such that direct experimentation is impracticable the development of logirnl methods and bases for estimates involves analyses of past experience in specific situations and, in so far as is feasible, the generalization of such experience. It is the purpose of this paper to describe briefly a graphical method by which complex economic data may be generalized for use in forecasting probable future conditions."
"The magnetic alloy described in this paper is a composition of about 78.5% nickel and 21.5% iron and at magnetizing fields in the neighborhood of .04 gauss and with proper treatment has a permeability running as high as 90,000. This is about 200 times as great as the permeability of the best iron for these low magnetizing fields. This high permeability is attendant upon proper heat treatment and also upon other factors among which is freedom from elastic strain. The presence of other elements than iron or nickel and specially carbon, reduces the permeability, but slight variations in heat treatment produce large changes compared with those due to small quantities of impurities. So far as discovered, other physical properties show no peculiarities at the composition which brings out the remarkable magnetic properties of permalloy. The equilibrium diagram, electric conductivity, crystal structure, mean spacing between adjacent atom centers and density are among the physical properties which have been studied. To the engineer in electrical communication the development of permalloy is very significant. It assures a revolutionary change in submarine cable construction and operation and promises equally important advances in other fields. — Editor."
"Some of the important developments contemplated in the apparatus and equipment for long toll cable circuits are described. The large number of equipment units per station in the cable plant and the greater number of stations in a given length of cable than in an open-wire system have made the economic importance of the equipment design such that a comprehensive program of development, affecting many types of equipment, has been undertaken. The outstanding features of some of the more important of these, including the telephone repeater equipment, test board equipment and signaling equipment, are described. The necessity for compactness in the dimensions of equipment units, uniformity in assembly arrangements, and simplicity in design, together with the need of careful correlation of the electrical and mechanical requirements, are emphasized. The methods proposed for meeting these requirements generally, are described."
"The paper describes the development of a two-way radio-telephone system and its use in extending the Bell Telephone System to connect with ships at sea. The electrical considerations and the experimental work involved in determining the system-design of the radio link are discussed. Two land stations were established, one of them a permanent three-channel station on the New Jersey coast. Two coastal vessels and finally one trans-Atlantic liner were equipped. These installations are briefly described in the paper. The operation of the combined radio and wire system is explained, particularly in respect to the transmission characteristics of the overall system and the effect thereupon of the movement of the vessel and of variations in atmospheric conditions. Measurements of the variations in the field strength received from field vessels at sea show why it is possible to receive over very long distances at favorable times at night and not during the day. The method of establishing combined radio-telephone-wire circuits to ships is described and representative results are given of the considerable telephone traffic which was handled over the system experimentally during a period of trial operation. Tests of multi-channel telephone operation to several ships through the Deal Beach shore station, and also tests of simultaneous telegraph and telephone operation from the same vessel are described. Connection of a vessel thru the transcontinental telephone line to the Catalina Island radio-telephone system, whereby the vessel in the Atlantic talked with an island in the Pacific, is briefly described, and finally the outstanding conclusions of the entire development work are given."
"THE transmission of alternating currents over any transmission line between specified terminal impedances depends only on the propagation constant and the characteristic impedance of the line (at the particular frequency contemplated). In this sense, then, the properties of transmission lines may be classed broadly as propagation characteristics and impedance characteristics. In telephony we are primarily concerned with the dependence of these characteristics on the frequency, over the telephonic frequency range."
"IN 1918 it was announced that the engineers of the Bell System had perfected carrier current telephone apparatus to such a point that four talking circuits had been added to one pair of wires already in use for telephone and telegraph communication and were being used commercially between Pittsburgh and Baltimore for providing needed telephone facilities. Since that time the growth of carrier application in the Bell System has been quite rapid. The purpose of this paper is to summarize the applications of carrier up to the present time and give a few typical examples where it has been found economical to provide circuits by means of carrier rather than by other types of facilities."
"From the earliest forms of telephone switchboards to the modern types, the development of the switchboard has been marked by the increasing use of automatic methods to supplement the manual operation wherever this would result in better service to the public or more efficient operation. In addition to all that has been done in developing and introducing automatic operations with manual switchboards, it has been found desirable and practicable to go further in the direction of introducing automatic operation in the telephone plant and a machine switching system has been developed in which the bulk of the connections are established without the aid of an operator. The complexity of a large metropolitan area and the exacting requirements which a machine switching system must meet are outlined briefly, and the system which has been developed to meet these requirements is described. The application of the system to a typical large metropolitan area and the means provided for permitting its gradual introduction into the existing plant are discussed."
"This paper discusses generally the characteristics of carrier transmission as applied in radio and in carrier current communication over wires and analyses the factors which affect the faithfulness with which such systems reproduce the signals imparted to them. Modulation is shown to generate two side bands which, with respect to frequency, lie just above and just below the carrier frequency, the frequency width of each side band being the same as the frequency width of the original signals. Upon detection, currents of frequencies corresponding to the difference frequencies between all the possible pairs of component frequencies of the side bands and carrier are produced and, in general, are all found in the received message. It is therefore impossible to transmit messages, either telephone or telegraph, by carrier which will be absolutely free of distortion, but since the amplitude of any particular difference frequency is proportional to the product of the amplitudes of its two generating frequencies the distortion can be reduced below a troublesome value by maintaining the amplitude of the original carrier sufficiently large with respect to the amplitudes of the signal components. The distortion which arises from phase shifts between the component frequencies of the transmitted message and carrier is also considered. The paper discusses single side-band transmission and carrier suppression with homodyne detection and their various merits are pointed out. Single side band transmission reduces the width of frequency band required for each message. Carrier suppression results in a saving of power, or a more economical expenditure of power, it having been determined that for proper freedom from distortion the power of the carrier component alone, when transmitted, should be rather larger than the peak power in a carrier suppression system. The use of local carrier in homodyne radio telephony assists in frequency selection in the same way as does the heterodyne wave in radio telegraph reception. The same applies also to static interference, and, as the object of high power stations is to make the signals large compared with static, there is a gain in concentrating the power in side bands rather than in carrier. Consideration of distortion arising from phase shifts shows that in homodyne telegraphy distortion can most readily be avoided by transmitting both side-bands, while in telephony these factors favor the transmission of only one side-band. The power of the reproduced signals is twice as great with two side-bands as with one, but there is no choice between one and two side-bands on the basis of the ratio of signals to interference. The result of using a local detecting frequency which is not exactly equal to the original carrier frequency is discussed, and a balanced detector is described by means of which the distorting effect of the received carrier may be very much reduced. Considering a local carrier which is out of synchronism with the original carrier, it is again found that single side-band transmission is most favorable in telephony, and the transmission of both side-bands is best in telegraphy. — Editor."
"A public address system comprises electrical equipment to greatly amplify a speaker's voice so it will reach a much larger assemblage than he could speak to unaided. Beginning with the presidential conventions of the two major parties in 1920 and the inaugural address of President Harding in March 1921, when a special address system installed by the telephone engineers enabled him to address an audience estimated at 125,000, there followed in rapid succession, many public events demonstrating the value of such systems. One of the most notable of these occurred on Armistice Day 1921, when the speeches, prayers and music at Arlington, Virginia, were heard, not only by 100,000 persons gathered there at the National Cemetery, but by some 35,000 in New York City and 20,000 in San Francisco. On this occasion the three public address systems, one for each of these cities, were joined by long distance telephone circuits. The fundamental requirements of a satisfactory public address system are naturalness of reproduction and wide range of output volume. The meeting of these two requirements for music proves more difficult than for speech. The public address system here described is most readily considered in three sections — “pick-up” apparatus which is placed in the neighborhood of the speaker and converts his words into undulatory electric currents; a vacuum tube amplifier for amplifying these currents; and a “receiver-projector” for reconverting the current into sound waves and distributing the sound over all of the audience. In the present system each of these three parts of the equipment has been designed with the intention of making it as nearly distortionless as possible, so that the various parts might be adaptable for audiences ranging in size from possibly one thousand to several hundred thousand, and might also be used in connection with the long distance telephone lines and with either radio broadcasting or receiving stations. One of the larger public address systems is easily capable of magnifying a speaker's voice as many as 10,000 times. The pick-up device whether of the carbon microphone variety or a condenser transmitter need not be placed close to the speaker's lips but will operate satisfactorily when four or five feet away. The loud-speaking receiver mechanism is so designed that it will carry a power of several watts with small distortion. Under normal conditions, 40 watts distributed among a number of receiver-projectors arranged in a circle is ample to reach an audience of 700,000 persons. — Editor."
"The combination of the public address system and the telephone lines makes it possible for a speaker to address, simultaneously, audiences located at a number of different places. Such a combination has been used in connection with several public events and a description is given of the system as used on Armistice Day, 1921, when large audiences at Arlington, New York and San Francisco joined in the ceremonies attending the burial of the Unknown Soldier, at the National Cemetery, Arlington, Virginia. More recently the public address system has been used in conjunction with telephone lines to attain two-way loud-speaker service. This arrangement permits the holding of joint meetings between audiences in two or more locations, separated by perhaps thousands of miles, in such a manner that speakers before each of the audiences can be heard simultaneously by the other audiences. A demonstration of two-way operation was given at the mid-winter convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in February, 1923, and took the form of a joint meeting between 1,000 members in New York and 500 in Chicago. The electrical characteristics of any telephone line which is to be used in conjunction with loud-speaker equipment must receive special attention. In commercial telephone service the main requirement is understandability, while with the loud-speaker naturalness of reproduced speech is very important. People are accustomed to hearing through the air with very little distortion and naturally expect the same result with loud speakers. A satisfactory line for this purpose must show freedom from transients, echo effects, etc., as well as good uniformity of transmission over the proper frequency range. The public address system, apparatus and methods has also been applied to radio broadcasting. The combination of the public address system with lines and radio makes it possible for one speaker to address enormous numbers of people located all over the country. — Editor."
"Formulas are derived for the direct-current mutual resistance and inductance between circuits grounded at the surface of the earth. For circuits composed of straight filaments, the mutual inductance is reduced to known Neumann integrals which involve only comparatively simple expressions for the case of horizontal, coplanar conductors above, below or on the surface of the earth. Numerical values for these integrals may be readily obtained from new and accurate graphs for straight filaments which meet at a point or start from a common perpendicular. It is shown that these new results supply a useful first approximation to the actual alternating-current mutual impedance of grounded circuits, when the frequency and extent of the circuits are not larger than occur in many practical applications."
"Note: The present material was originally prepared for the National Research Council for use in a proposed Manual on “Physical Research Methods and Technique.” As the appearance of the Manual has been postponed, the Committee in charge of its preparation has kindly consented to the separate publication of some of the sections in various technical magazines. In order to meet the requirements of the Manual, the form of expression has been made as compact as possible with practically no discussion of theory and no derivation of formulas. Since this style of presentation leaves much to be desired from some points of view, references have been given to the original literature wherever possible. However, many of the vacuum tube circuits presented have not as yet been treated in the literature. In the preparation of the new material the author has been greatly helped by persons whose contact with these subjects is at first hand."
"Note: Dr. Darrow, the author of the following article, has made it a practice to prepare abstracts and reviews of such recent researches in physics as appear to him to be of special interest. The results of Dr. Darrow's work have been available to the staffs of the Bell System laboratories for some time and having been very well regarded, it is thought that such a review, published from time to time in the Technical Journal, might be welcomed by its readers. The review cannot, of course, cover all the published results of physical research. The author chooses those articles which appear significant to him or instructive to his readers, without attempting to pass judgment on the scientific importance of the different papers published. It is not intended that the review shall always assume the same form; at one time it may cover many articles, at another be devoted to only a few, and it may occasionally treat of but a single piece of work. — Editor."
"The first transmission of the human voice across the Atlantic was accomplished by means of radio in 1915. Since that time substantial progress has been made in the art of radio telephony and in January of this year another important step was taken in the accomplishment of transoceanic voice communication. At a prearranged time telephonic messages were received in London from New York clearly and with uniform intensity over a period of about two hours. These talking tests were part of a series of experiments on transatlantic telephony which are now under way, the results of which to date are reported in this paper. A new method of transmission, radiating only a single side-band, is being employed for the first time. As compared with the ordinary method of transmission, this system possesses the following important advantages: The effectiveness of transmission is greatly increased because all of the energy radiated is effective in conveying the message; whereas in the ordinary method, most of the energy is not thus effective. The stability of transmission is improved. The frequency band required for transmission is reduced, thus conserving wave length space in the ether and also simplifying the transmitting antenna problem. An important element of the high-power transmitter is the water-cooled tubes, by means of which the power of the transmitted currents is amplified to the order of 100 kilowatts or more. The direct-current power for these tubes is supplied from a 60-cycle, a-c. source through water-cooled rectifier tubes. A highly selective and stable type of receiving circuit is employed. Methods and apparatus have been developed for measuring the strength of the electromagnetic field which is delivered to the receiving point and for measuring the interference produced by static. The transmission tests so far have been conducted on a wave length of 5260 meters (57,000 cycles per second). The results of the measurements during the first quarter of the year on the transmission from the United States to England show large diurnal variations in the strength of the received signal and in the radio noise strength, as is to be expected, and correspondingly large diurnal variations in the ratio of the signal to noise strength and in the resulting reception of spoken words. Also, the measurements, although as yet incomplete, show a large seasonal variation. The character of the diurnal and seasonal variations is clearly indicated in the figures. The curves present the most accurate and complete data of this kind yet obtained."
"The author states his purpose to be the presentation of certain facts of audition which have been determined recently with considerable accuracy and the discussion of the theory which best explains these facts. Making use of data of Knudsen's as well as his own measurements of the auditory sensation area, the author estimates that the normal ear can perceive approximately 300,000 different pure tones. This is taking account of all possible variations in both pitch and intensity. Knudsen's data show that for considerable ranges the minimum perceptible difference in intensity bears a constant ratio to the intensity and the minimum perceptible difference in frequency bears a constant ratio to the frequency. These relations have been termed by psychologists “The Law of Weber and Fechner.” A loudness scale is proposed such that the difference in loudness between two tones is equal to ten times the common logarithm of their intensity ratio. A pitch scale is proposed such that the difference in pitch is equal to one hundred times the logarithm to the base two of the frequency ratio. A method for measuring the loudness of complex sounds is mentioned but is to be discussed in a later paper. A method is proposed for expressing quantitatively different degrees of deafness. Reference is made to data obtained by the author on the masking of one pure tone by another. The minimum audible intensity of a pure tone depends upon the presence of another tone of different frequency. A low pitched note will, in general, exert a surprisingly large masking effect upon notes of higher frequency. The masking of a low note by a higher is not nearly as pronounced. From his observations, the author draws certain interesting conclusions. For example, given a complex tone consisting of three frequencies 400, 300 and 200 cycles with relative loudness values of 50, 10 and 10, respectively, the ear would hear only the 400 cycle tone and the 200 cycle tone. If the sound is now increased 30 loudness units, without distortion, the 400 cycle tone and the 300 cycle tone only, will be heard. Binaural masking in which each ear receives one of the two sounds is considered and the conclusion reached that the masking effect noted results from conduction of the masking tone through the bones of the head to the ear receiving the masked tone. It is stated on the basis of data obtained by Wegel and Lane that the oscillatory system of the ear, comprised by the membranes and little bones of the middle and inner ears, does not obey Hooke's Law regarding the proportionality of stress and strain. Consequently, the ear, when stimulated by a pure tone, introduces harmonics and the workers cited have observed harmonics as high as the 4th order. The non-linear transmission characteristic of the vibratory system of the ear is held to account for the greater masking of a high frequency by a lower. A theory of hearing is advanced which pictures the basilar membrane as being caused to vibrate by incident sound waves. In the case of a pure tone, the membrane is supposed not to vibrate uniformly throughout its length but the region of maximum amplitude determines the pitch of the tone as interpreted by the ear and the maximum amplitude determines the intensity. — Editor."
"Had this paper been prepared ten years ago, or even five years ago, it could hardly have borne the title I have given it. Almost inevitably it would have taken the interrogative form: “Has the motion picture a place in education?” Happily that question has now been answered and answered in the affirmative. Hence we are privileged rather to examine the question of precisely what place should be accorded to the motion picture in our educational process."
"Scientific research efforts, especially during the preceding half “decade, apparently have resulted in more rapid strides toward perfecting the film for high speed photography than was evidenced by the mechanical development for the fullest utilization of the speed incorporated in the emulsion by the chemists. Theoretically, exposures upwards of two hundred and more per second are as easily obtained as sixteen; however, in the absence of a continuous movement camera, the laws of inertia of moving objects, and the comparatively low tensile strength of film, have constituted very serious obstacles for an intermittent movement camera."
"The camera man in the studio runs two machines. The lights bombard surfaces with radiant energy. The camera records tho time-space-intensity distribution of a selected portion of the energy these surfaces reflect. No camera man can have more delicate control over this double mechanism than the delicacy of his control of the lights. So, unless the light machine is a trifle better than the camera, the studio is going to feel that light is no better than a necessary evil."
"A Manufacturer of a portable motion picture projector asked me some time ago where he could get a steady, solid light source of high brilliancy, evenly distributed over a small area and having a high candlepower with little heat and which is simple and easy to operate and control on either alternating or direct current. Quite a large order, you will agree—an order which to date, has not been filled. However, such an ideal light source is not absolutely necessary as there are several sources available which contain enough of the above qualifications to give quite satisfactory results."
"Contrary to the popular idea, the history of attempts to record sound vibration photographically is not new. It dates back almost as far as the birth of the telephone itself. In 1879, Prof. Alexander Graham Bell and his associate, Tainter, succeeded in telephoning a short distance over a beam of light, using as a transmitter a very small mirror attached to a diaphragm. Less than a year after these experiments were published a man by the name of Fritts filed a patent application disclosing exactly the transmitting methods employed by Bell and Tainter, and in addition a moving photographic plate upon which the vibrating beam of light was to be photographed through a narrow slit transverse to the motion of the photographic surface. Fritts did nothing in the way of working out a practical method. The Fritts patent application was two generations ahead of the art and remained merely a “paper” patent."
"Attempts to send pictures electrically, and to see by wire, i.e., “television,” are very old, dating back well-nigh a hundred years. And as radio differs from wire only as a means of carrying the picture characteristics over the intervening distance between stations, with the advantages in favor of radio, it is quite natural that the early workers should immediately begin the adaptation of their apparatus to radio as soon as radio was available."
"The principles underlying the production of reproducible sound records by means of photography are discussed and methods of investigation of the adaptability of luminous discharges in gases and in mercury vapor are described. Diagrams are given of methods to modulate various forms of luminous discharges by means of sound controlled audio- and radio-frequency currents. Description and photographs are included illustrating the apparatus developed by the author for talking motion pictures and for testing of photographic sound records."
"After all is said and done, the proof of the “picture” is in the print, for the positive print is the final link in the chain which leads to the eye of the public. But print proof is dependent upon projection and screening; many a good print which reflected unusual negative value has been criticized or condemned because its excellence and utmost were dimmed by faulty screening."
"The use of motion picture machines on board vessels and at stations of the Navy has been permitted for several years, but only recently has it been decided to furnish these machines as part of the regular standard Navy equipment. More specifically these machines were previously supplied through contributions from the individuals of a ship's crew or in some other manner from their own funds. Thus, whichever machine had the services of the most persuasive salesmen or by some other way most appealed to the fancy of the individual making the purchase, that machine was the one which any particular unit of the Navy used."
"All films used in motion picture projection contain organic materials which will be damaged or destroyed by excessively high temperatures. This applies both to the inflammable and to the noninflammable films; the difference is mainly the kind of damage. One type of film may stand a little higher temperature before damage than another, but both are within what might be called the easily damaged zone."
"The efficiency of the light production in a projection arc is determined by two main factors; first, the intrinsic brightness per unit of surface of the crater; and second, the effective area of the crater. By effective area is meant, of course, the horizontal projection of the actual crater area on a plane perpendicular to the optical axis; and consequently the angle which the carbon carrying the crater makes with the optical axis becomes an important consideration. It is at once apparent that right angle operation of any carbon is a material factor in its light producing efficiency"
"Being well aware of the difficulty of securing uniform development of photographic plates by any of the ordinary methods of dish or tank development, it occurred to the writer that it would be interesting to make a study of the degree of uniformity of development usual in the commercial development of motion picture film. For this purpose, it was proposed to employ motion picture film free from irregularities in the thickness of its sensitive coating, to expose a number of lengths of such film as uniformly as possible to a moderately wide range of light intensities, and to have them developed in several different commercial laboratories. In the attempt to produce uniform exposures over each picture area, one of the regular commercial printing machines was first employed. It was found, however, that the illumination was far too uneven for our purpose, and this leads me to suggest that users of motion picture printing machines will be well advised to examine carefully from time to time the uniformity of the illumination by which they are printing their pictures, since it is evident that it is very easy to spoil the beautiful gradation of a picture by printing it unevenly. In the experiments upon which the following short note is based, irregularities due to lack of uniformity of the exposure over the area of a single picture were reduced to a small amount by exposing the film in a kinema camera to a sheet of white blotting paper, uniformly illuminated by a bank of mercury vapor lamps, while lack of uniformity in coating is doubtless very small in amount owing to the use of commercial motion picture film of known excellence. I may say, however, that in prosecuting this work further, it will be desirable to adopt a different method of exposing the film, since the camera method employed in these experiments did not prove entirely satisfactory. The small irregularities arising from this cause have, however, been eliminated by the method of computation adopted. Lengths of film 200 ft. long were exposed in the manner mentioned at four different lens apertures and were then sent to a number of different laboratories engaged in the commercial development of motion picture film for development. On their return, ten picture areas at each exposure were carefully measured in a photometer at five different places on each picture area (three lying along the center line of the film, the other two being at the middle of the sides of each picture area). The results were grouped to determine the average density for each location and the average departures from these mean values were then calculated. The same procedure was, of course, adopted for each of the four differently exposed areas. Results obtained from seven separate rolls of film are dealt with in this note. In this way, it was found that although there was evidence of a small lack of uniformity in the lighting of the picture areas, this was insufficient to render doubtful the conclusions to be drawn later concerning development. By considering the average deviations in density at each spot separately, we have determined the liabilities to fluctuation in density over each portion of the picture apart from the above mentioned small irregularities due to exposure. Our results do not disclose any regular tendency towards larger fluctuations of density at one part than another of each picture area due to irregularities in development and drying conditions, and this is true whether the film had been developed in a machine or on racks by the ordinary tank system, but I should not like it to be inferred that irregularities of this kind cannot happen, since in certain circumstances, I think they are likely to arise."
"This article deals with the handling of motion picture film by the reel and trough and rack and tank systems during the operations of developing, fixing, washing, and drying."
"One of the immediate results of the introduction of the high current incandescent lamp into the motion picture industry has been the emphasis placed upon an old problem of applied optics; that is, the production of a field of uniform illumination from a non-uniform light source. The crater of the carbon are, which preceded the incandescent lamp in projection service, is sufficiently uniform in brilliancy from edge to edge to give an almost constant illumination at all parts of the screen, but the incandescent filament not only varies in brightness in different parts but it has open spaces of about half the filament area in extent. The illumination at the aperture and on the screen has a natural tendency to show an image of the filament, and the suppression of this image is the problem with which we are here concerned."
"The manufacture of portable motion picture projectors as a branch of the great motion picture industry is only in its infancy and just what course its development will take is a matter of conjecture at this time."
"The Discrola is a machine for the projection of motion pictures in the home, and has been attained by the invention of continuous motion in picture mechanisms, and a picture record, which consists of a plurality of paper discs."
"This paper is essentially an exposition of the scope and principles of motion picture apparatus, relevant to the amateur and the home and equally applicable for use in industry, scientific, and educational work. Photographs of the apparatus and mechanism and drawings of the principal features are given to show more clearly the work done in endeavoring to embody compactness, simplicity, lightness, practicability, and economy. The principal features in this instance are discussed at length. In general, the paper constitutes a comprehensive answer to the problem of “Motion Pictures for the Home.”"
"For use with the new substandard film described in a previous paper, the Eastman Kodak Company has developed a new motion picture camera and projector. The camera, which it is proposed to call the Cine Kodak, was designed and built in the instrument shop of the optical factory and is, on the whole, of standard type. The lens equipment consists of a Kodak Anastigmat of 25 mm. focal length, working at f/3.5, with a focusing mechanism which can be operated from the back of the camera, the lens being focused by scale for any distance from infinity to four feet."
"The system of amateur motion picture photography which has been worked out by the Eastman Kodak Company is founded on the use of film smaller than that used in the standard camera and on a new process for finishing it, the object being to reduce the cost of the finished picture to as Iowa point as possible."
"The Spirograph is a motion picture projector employing a disc film for the inexpensive production of moving pictures in miniature, in the home, school, office or elsewhere, wherever cost of reproduction is of primary importance and is manufactured by the Urban Motion Picture Industries."
"An Inventor is very much like a conjuror. From the recesses of his mind, he brings forth the bright bauble and the practical utility with the smiling intent to please his public."
"This article presents standard symbols for electrical equipment of buildings."
"AN OLD man sat amidst his paint pots and soldering tools;—a tinker of toys was he;—in his hand he held a cylinder of tin, with long narrow slits in its surface;—a strip of painted animals rested on the inner surface of this tin disk. In the fading light, he spun it around and smiled—a new language was born."
"WHEN droplets of water come into contact with motion picture film either before or after the film is exposed and previous to development spots are formed which later appear as objectionable defects on the film. Markings are also apt to be produced if all superfluous moisture is not removed from the film before drying or if the rate of drying is changed during the progress of drying. Moisture spots are always produced on the emulsion side of motion picture film and never on the base side, since the film base is resistant to moisture."
"WE ARE living in an age of specialization, an age of standardization and scientific control. It is safe to say that no great industry can operate smoothly, successfully and economically without utilizing the services and knowledge of the engineer. The Motion Picture Industry, perhaps more than any other, needs highly skilled technical men at every stage, and is one of the most profitable and fertile fields for the application of specialized engineering. Motion picture engineering must of necessity lead to specialization, for the subject is altogether too broad to be covered by individual knowledge and experience. An engineer is defined as one of inventive ability capable of carrying through an enterprise, and the pioneers in motion picture work—the men who blazed the trail—were engineers in the truest sense of the word, and in addition, men of courage and conviction, combining a true research instinct with indefatigable energy. If they had not been the industry would not be where it is today. There is need for more and more trained specialists in this branch of engineering, and an attempt will be made in this paper to outline the qualifications and knowledge necessary to cover the field of motion picture engineering from the raw materials to the screen."
"THE analogy between motion picture film running over sprockets, and the metallic link belts or power transmission chain running with chain sprockets can exist only when the pitch of the film is identical with the pitch of the sprocket teeth on which it is being run. In the manufacture of power transmission chain and sprockets every effort is made to maintain identical pitch in both chains and sprockets. Commercial accuracy of metal power transmission chain admits of a tolerance of approximately 1/32″ to 1/16″ per foot. This is equivalent to approximately ¼ to ½ of one per cent, but in a chain there is always elongation corresponding to negative shrinkage in the case of film. The tools for locating holes in chain members being accurate as to center distance all discrepancy in pitch is equal to the accumulated tolerances in working fit of pins and holes. This may be compensated for to a certain extent in cutting the teeth of the sprockets. But even though the conditions are not perfect, the chain will accommodate itself to the sprocket in a measure and give satisfactory results."
"PERHAPS the progress which has been made in the perfection of the high speed camera which the writer brought to the attention of the Society at the Buffalo Meeting, October, 1921, might be interesting to you as engineers, as it points out the unique character of the instrument now available for the study of unusually high speed motions."
"SINCE the presentation at the Atlantic City Meeting of the methods and apparatus employed in the transmission and reception of photographic images by radio, development has progressed quite satisfactorily. The quality of the reproduction has been raised, while the time required for the transmission of photographs has been reduced to less than a minute."
"IT IS well known that excessive heating has a detrimental effect on the useful life of motion picture film. This injurious effect results from physical and chemical changes in the material induced and accelerated by higher temperatures. Thus, if the film be subjected to relatively high temperatures, the decomposition reactions, which at normal temperature proceed at a very slow rate, are greatly accelerated and evaporation of the more volatile constituents proceeds at a much greater rate than at lower temperatures. The exposure of the film to abnormally high temperatures therefore results in excessive shrinkage and marked increase in the brittleness of the material accompanied by a decrease in its tensile strength. It is obvious that these changes are detrimental to the film and must shorten its useful life for projection purposes. If proper conditions for storing, transporting, and handling the negatives and positives are adopted, the only time at which the film is subjected to abnormal temperatures is during projection."
"I BELIEVE we all will agree that when a moving object has been photographed for reproduction as a motion picture, if it is to appear upon the screen in all respects as the original object appeared to the “eye” of the camera, the speed of its projection must be exactly the same as was the speed of its taking—the same as the camera speed when it was “shot.” We will, I think, all heartily agree that any departure from perfect synchronization of the taking, or camera speed, and the speed of reproduction, or projection, must, and inevitably will cause the moving object to appear differently upon the screen than it appeared to and was photographed by the camera, hence under such conditions the spectator cannot and will not see the moving object as the camera “saw” it."
"RECENT developments in condensing lenses for motion picture projection embodying the use of non-spherical surfaces call for changes in other parts of the optical train in order to reap the full advantage of condensers of this type. Aside from the aperture, whose size is fixed, the other elements of the optical system have been designed and positioned to fit the objective lenses available. The assumption has been that since any change in the design of the objective lens involved in addition to its relation to the optical system, such factors as definition, flatness of field, freedom from chromatic aberration and distortion, it was far simpler to alter the other elements of the system, possibly at a sacrifice of their own efficiency."
"AN optical instrument will work with highest possible efficiency when each of the optical and mechanical components themselves are of the efficiency required for the case and so co-ordinated that their functions do not interfere."
"THERE is a difference between motion picture money and other money. Persons in respectable occupations insist upon dealing with the industry on a “strictly cash” basis. They seem to think we shall all be splashed when the “bubble” bursts. The studio with its shadowy, fabulous millions appears to them a fiction of publicity men."
"THE Stereoscope is older than Photography."
"DURING the course of certain experiments in tone reproduction as applied to motion pictures in color, the need for an instrument capable of measuring the small areas of density in motion picture images became apparent. At that time no instrument entirely suitable for this purpose was available."
"BY THE TERM developing machine, as used in the title of my paper, I mean a machine for developing, fixing, washing, tinting and drying."
"WHEN pictures first began to be used for entertainment, the question of splicing and continuity was given practically no consideration whatever, and it was thought that all that was necessary to patch a film was simply to stick the two pieces of film together, and this was done in the crudest manners, without any knowledge on the part of the people who inspected the films of what was required of the film in the theatres. Furthermore, at the time which I mention, everybody was making so much money in the picture business that it overshadowed any damage to film, or damage to presentation through lack of proper handling of film. After everybody got a little experience and more education in the picture game, and profits were not so great, it began to dawn upon the distributors that film damage was causing them great sums of money, as prints were being returned to exchanges practically unfit for further use, and they immediately took the operators to task, (operators, now more properly called projectionists) for the film damage."
