"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A generous share of Southern hospitality is promised all who attend the convention in Birmingham, April 7–11. The technical program presents an interesting and diversified group of papers. Of particular value will be the presentation of practises in various sections of the country which will offer a valuable opportunity for comparison. Water power, transmission and allied subjects will occupy a prominent part of the program and there will be excellent papers on mining applications, metallurgical applications and machine developments."
"The attention of the membership is directed to a more detailed announcement published elsewhere in this issue regarding the various engineering and related meetings to be held in London and on the continent in July of this year."
"The study of insulation problems is the subject to which the Research Committee is at present devoting most of its efforts. This committee, it may be pointed out, serves also as an advisory committee on electrical engineering to the National Research Council. In this relationship the Committee has directed its principal attention to questions of electric insulation, and many of its members are also members of the Committee on Electrical Insulation, Engineering Division, National Research Council."
"The work of the Industrial and Domestic Power Committee this year has consisted largely in investigations of specialized equipment and systems for use in a number of industrial fields which at the present time offer wide opportunities for the application of electrical power."
"NORVIN GREEN, the first president of the Institute, was born in New Albany Ind., April 17, 1818. While he was quite young his family removed to and settled permanently in Kentucky. In the year 1840 he graduated with honor from the Medical Department of the University of Louisville, later being appointed physician in the western Military Academy at Drennan Springs, Ky."
"The wisdom of the policy of the Shipping Board in promoting the conversion of steam driven cargo vessels to motor ships is illustrated by the fuel economies shown during a 13,329-mile voyage from New York to the Pacific Coast by the motor ship Seekonk recently converted to Diesel drive."
"In an address by Chairman C. T. Allen of the Western Centre of the British A E. E. he takes engineers to task for their modesty and lack of self assertiveness in the following language :"
"The paper discusses the theoretical basis of a special turbo-generator ventilation system, in which the cooling air divides into several branches, and passes through the stator core radially in and out. An extended series of experiments on a full-size model, embodying this system, has lately been carried out by the Westinghouse Co. The tests are described in a paper by C. J. Fechheimer under the Title: “Experimental Study of Ventilation of Turbo-Alternators.” The fundamental questions in regard to the flow of air in any ventilation system are: 1. How high pressure is required to force through a certain volume of air per unit time? 2. How will the air distribute, axially and radially, in the different intake and discharge vents? 3. What will be the “balanced stale” of flow, if several branches of air meet and divide in a tube, the intake and discharge taking place normal to the walls of the tube? These questions are given a thorough analysis, under certain simplifying assumptions, and it is shown that 1. The total pressure required for a certain volume of air per unit time is expressible by means of hyperbolic and trigonometric cotangents of a certain argument, which contains the geometrical dimensions of the air-circuit. 2. The air is distributed according to a simple hyperbolic or trigonometric sine-law. 3. The “balanced state” depends on the solution of a system of simultaneous transcendental equations. A method of solution is outlined, which is applicable for such cases where the arguments are small. In such cases the transcendental equations reduce to simple algebraic equations. A numerical example is finally worked out in order to show the application of the derived formulas."
"The name “super synchronous” has been given to a certain type of motor, not because the motor operates above synchronous speed but because it has the ability to develop super torque in starting. There has been a demand for a long time for some type of synchronous motor that would develop during the starting cycle a torque as great or greater than that of an induction motor of the wound-rotor, external-resistance type. The first applications of synchronous motors, where considerable starting torque was required, were accomplished by the use of friction clutches. A type of synchronous motor has also been developed, which in its design is quite closely an induction motor but having somewhat larger air gap and a secondary containing a larger amount of copper and wound with reference to the voltage at collector rings required for excitation. Such a motor involves the use of external resistance and changing the connections of the secondary from a polyphase starting net work to a singlephase synchronous field winding. It also inherently has lower efficiency, due to the higher core losses and the greater exciting energy required."
"This paper is an extension to the author's paper in Vo. XXXIX Pages 997 to 1047 on Eddy current losses in armature conductors. In this present paper additional formulas are given for the cases where transposed coils are used and also methods given for quickly estimating the increased loss due to eddy currents."
"The recording of strains produced in bridges by trains or motor trucks passing over them has been made possible by a new electric telemeter or strain gage developed at the Bureau of Standards. The gage has two points which are clamped to the part of the bridge truss on which the measurements are to be made, and two stacks of carbon disks. A change of load on the truss causes a change in the distance between these points, and this is arranged to cause a change in the pressure on the carbon stacks and a consequent change in their resistance. The electrical apparatus can be made to record very rapid changes. The recording apparatus can be used with several gages at once."
"In the communication art transformers are used to transfer inductively the energy of speech currents from one electric circuit to another. In addition to this primary function which must be efficiently performed without distorting the speech significance of the transmitted energy, there is a variety of secondary functions such as making possible the super-position of phantom circuits on ordinary telephone circuits, discriminating between speech and telegraph or signaling frequencies, isolating circuits carrying direct current, and preventing inductive interference between adjacent circuits. A discussion is presented of the frequency range over which telephone transformers must operate efficiently in transferring energy between two circuits and the three most common limiting impedance combinations of these circuits, namely, both circuits resistances, one circuit a resistance and the other a positive reactance and one circuit a resistance and the other a negative reactance. The efficiency with which energy is transmitted is measured by comparison with an ideal transformer which is one which introduces no losses and has the best ratio to connect the two circuits. In studying its action the transformer is replaced by its equivalent T network which affords a ready means of analyzing its losses. The variation of the transformer losses with frequency is discussed for the three above mentioned combinations of circuit impedances and characteristic curves are shown for transformers of different mutual impedances. Characteristics are also given showing the operation of the input transformer into the vacuum tube as the mutual impedance and the transformer ratio are varied. The circuit conditions of the input transformer represent a common special case of the third combination of circuit impedances. The mechanical construction of various transformers is shown, namely, that of the ordinary battery supply repeating coil, of the telephone induction coil, and of three more recent types of transformers used principally in various vacuum lube circuits such as telephone repeaters, carrier frequency and radio circuits. These transformers are all constructed so as to give the desired accuracy of speech transmission under their particular circuit conditions. The climatic conditions present in the widely distributed telephone plant have been carefully considered and the transformers designed to maintain their initial efficiency over a long period of years."
"A signaling system is described which serves to extend to the field of radio telephony the same sort of calling facilities as are now available in wire telephony. By its means the radio attendants or subscribers are enabled to signal each other without requiring that the called party should have to listen with a receiver. The system is intercommunicating with a capacity for a large number of stations on one wave length. It has a range of operation extending as far as a radio channel suitable for the commercial transmission of speech can be reliably maintained, and offers a very satisfactory degree of freedom from interference. Furthermore, it employs simple, standard types of telephone apparatus. Some possible fields of usefulness of the system, its outstanding characteristics, and the apparatus which it employs are described."
"The conditions of stability of a system are discussed and it is pointed out that while the various transmission line diagrams as used at present implicitly assume the terminal voltage at the two ends to be constant the degree of voltage regulation as determined by load conditions is an important factor in the determination of the limit of output. A type of combined diagram is proposed whereby this factor and other characteristics of the load may be included. The effect of the inherent regulation of synchronous condensers is taken up particularly with respect to compound transmission lines. A numerical example of a 300-mile line is considered and various characteristic curves are drawn. The relation between the maximum output and the capacity of condensers installed at the mid-point shows the benefit obtained by increasing the condenser capacity — within certain economic limits. Mathematical analyses are presented to cover a number of different conditions."
"The Bureau of Standards in cooperation with the Signal Corps and the Air Service of the Army is developing an improved type of radio beacon, which it is believed will do much to increase the safety of navigation both on the water and in the air."
"The classes of electrical equipment that have been approved by the Department of the Interior, through the Bureau of Mines, for use in mines, are steadily growing and the number of each type are as follows: Electric cap lamps, 5; electric hand lamp, 1; a-c. and d-c. shortwall coal-cutting machines, 20; portable electric drills, 4; single-shot firing devices, 2; storageb attery locomotives, 5. These are all described in Technical Paper 333."
"Radio broadcasting has drawn attention to the problems involved in obtaining high quality in systems for the electrical transmission and reproduction of sound. This paper gives the general requirements for such systems, discusses briefly the factors to be considered in design and operation and indicates to what extent the desired results can be obtained with the means now available."
"In the sale of electric power especially in large amounts at high voltages, current transformers are universally used to operate the meters from the readings of which the bills are made out. While the secondary currents of such transformers reproduce fairly faithfully on a smaller scale the conditions of current strength and phase existing in their primary circuits, meter engineers are realizing more and more the importance of checking up the accuracy of this link in the chain of measurements. Many possible methods have been suggested for testing the accuracy of current transformers. Some are delightfully simple and inaccurate while others involve relatively intricate connections and sensitive apparatus, but give correspondingly more exact results. The present paper gives a critical discussion of the various possible methods with data as to the advantages and disadvantages of each, in order to serve as a guide to the meter engineer in selecting the method best suited to the particular working conditions of accuracy, speed, volume of testing, and intelligence of labor, existing in his plant. In all eleven distinct methods are described, and supplementary suggestions are made concerning various types of detecting instruments, etc."
"A new water-cooled, high voltage, X-Ray tube, developed by Dr. W. D. Coolidge of the General Electric research laboratory, has received a hearty medical endorsement, following a thorough trial in cancer treatment by Dr. James T. Case, a prominent X-Ray specialist of Battle Creek, Michigan. Doctor Case installed one of these tubes in the radiotherapy department of the Battle Creek Sanitarium in the summer of 1923, where a large series of animal experiments was undertaken. Since the first of August, 1923, all the clinical material requiring roentgenotherapy at that institution was handled with the new tube."
"A discussion of the function of the horn, together with theoretical consideration as to the design of the horn to perform this function in the best way are given. In the body of the paper, a proof is given to show that the exponential increase in section gives the best results. For this reason, a large part of the appendix is given to the analytical solution of sound propagation in exponential horns. From the results of this work and the well known equations relating first order effects in the telephone receiver, formulas are developed which make possible the design of horns."
"E.V. Pannell: Mr. Dreyer, on the fourth page of his paper, makes particular reference to the matter of excessive swinging of insulator strings where the vertical loading disappears. On the subject of dangerous swing of insulators where the horizontal load is unbalanced, the facts seem to show that the tie-down string is somewhat unsatisfactory, but Mr. Dreyer makes no mention of the possibility of using weights and I would like to know whether he has made any experiments in this respect. The use of a weight in place of a tie-down string has the advantages that a vertical component is provided at the same time the flexible characteristics of the line are not impaired and the arrangement would seem to be inherently superior to imposing dead-end stresses on a point which is not designed as a dead-end. In several installations in this country weights are being used instead of downs and I also know of work in Japan where weights have superseded tie-downs with greater satisfaction. It is necessary, of course, that clearances shall not be impaired but if this condition is satisfied I believe weights will be found the most satisfactory device."
"R.J.C. Wood: We have encpuntered some little trouble in crossing mountain ranges in snow countries, supposedly due to the loss of the snow or sleet load from a span and the conductor coming in contact with the one above it. On the double-circuit steel tower line, in question, the conductors are offset a foot and a half from the vertical plane of the one above it. We have had considerable discussion as to just what happens to cause these conductors to come together. One theory being that the sleet falls off the one span and still remaining on the adjacent span, the lighter span is pulled up into the one above it."
"L.M. KLAUBER: I wish to point out one fact, namely, that a line of such importance, crossing a water way open to traffic where great clearances are necessary, would naturally involve special structures and relatively high costs. One not familiar with long spans might deem it essential that whenever such spans are constructed, regardless of the character of the line, equally expensive structures are essential. I would like"
"E.B. Shand : It is desired to draw attention to the conditions of line charging by an a-c. generator. One method which has been frequently used to determine this effect consists in taking the voltage characteristics of the generator when excited by the armature current directly from the no-load saturation, and the short-circuit saturation curves. By plotting the volt-ampere characteristics for the capacity effect of the external circuit, the intersection of the two curves will give the value to which the terminal voltage will rise, with the field un-excited. This method involves quite an appreciable error, due to the fact that when the generator is excited from the field, the voltage is generated only by the flux in the magnetic circuit of the armature, but when excited from the armature an additional voltage is generated due to the leakage fluxes which are not present in the other case. It is evident, therefore, that the relation between voltage and ampere turns will differ under the two conditions of excitation."
"R. Treat: The device which was developed by Mr. Wilkins, appeals to me as being applicable to investigations of other similar problems. It appears to be a very simple, and it is hoped, reliable device which may be used for determining among other things, the pressures in the interior of oil circuit breakers at the time of opening the circuit and the stresses which are brought to bear upon bus insulators at times of short circuit."
"R. W. Sorensen: My first point is in connection with the statement that we use our insulations under stresses which rarely exceed the breakdown voltage of air, though tests show a strength of 10 to 20 times that of air for many of the insulations used. This plea for a more strenuous use of insulating materials is interesting in the light of a request in another paper given this morning, in which the author recommends a decrease in the test voltage applied to transformers with one terminal grounded."
"A.W. Copley: In amplification Mr. Koontz's paper and xcarrying out the thought a little farther, it may be pointed out that there is a very definite power limit on a transmission line on which the values of generator and receiver voltage are fixed. The addition of synchronous condenser capacity beyond a certain limit does no good as far as increasing the capacity of the line is concerned. For instance, on a 200-mile line with 200 kv. maintained at both ends, the addition of synchronous condenser capacity beyond the point which allows a load of about 220,000 kw. at the receiver end, does not increase the capacity for transmitting power. The power limit of such a line being in the neighborhood of 220,000 kw., it can be seen that, at least on projected lines, the limit is being approached. It is, however, possible to increase the power limit of the line by making, in effect, two lines in series. For instance, on a 400-mile line, with synchronous condenser capacity at the receiver end, the limit of capacity is around 120,000 or 125,000 kw. By breaking the line in two parts of 200 miles each, the power limit of the upper end of the line is about 220,000 kw. and with that power delivered to the middle of the line, the balance of it again has the oipacity of 220,000 kw. minus the losses, which bring the delivered power down to about 200,000 kw. That is, by the introduction of condenser capacity in the middle as well as at the receiver end, the line capacity is increased from 125,000 to 200,000 kw."
"The M.S. Cubore, first cargo ship to be equipped with the new type Bethelehem oil engine and a full complement of automatic magnetic control deck machinery, was given her sea trials February 8, a day's trip outside of Baltimore. Because of the wide interest in the unique equipment of this ship, many persons prominent in naval architecture and shipbuilding, including representatives of the Emergency Fleet Corporation, made the trip."
"The 40th anniversary of the Institute was fittingly celebrated during the Philadelphia Midwinter Convention at a meeting held Monday evening, February 4th, at which President Harris J. Ryan presided. Addresses were delivered by Elmer J. Sperry, T. Commerford Martin and Elihu Thomson, all charter members, and by John J. Carty, past-president of the Institute. President Ryan presided, and in opening the meeting said:"
"Two all-electric, 2000-ton capacity hopper dredges built for the Engineer Corps were recently launched from the yards of the Sun Shipbuilding Company. These dredges are electrically driven throughout, no steam being generated on t h e ship. The main propulsion is obtained from Diesel engines driving directcurrent generators which, in turn, operate the propelling motors. Electricity is used for cooking, heating, ventilating, and all other purposes. These are probably the largest vessels that have been completely electrified and mark a new step in the progress of the art."
"We are told on the best of authority that factory and other work efficiencies are enhanced by increase of illumination. Are we then speeding up our bodies at the expense of our eyes? While there are but little experimental data upon which to base such an opinion at the present time, much good work bearing upon another phase of the question makes it possible to state without much fear of contradiction that if the lighting, although of high intensity, be properly arranged in relation to the work, not only will no harm result but there will be an actual benefit."
"“Almost every measure put forth to safeguard industrial employes against accidental injury requires, as a primary and fundamental condition, proper lighting,” states A.C. Carruthers in Safety Engineering the official publication of the American Society of Safety Engineers."
"The North Side of Pittsburgh, known as “Old Alleghany,” will be “New Alleghany” as far as street lights are concerned. 2113 lamps of 600 candle power each are displacing the ancient arc-lighting system. Under a new contract, the city will pay $1.00 more per light per year than formerly, a good investment in vastly superior illumination. Philadelphia is doing the same thing on Broad Street, using 1000 candle power lamps. St. Louis has started work on its $8,000,000 city-wide street lighting program. Danielson, Connecticut; Utica, N. Y.; Sioux City, la.; Longview, Washington; in these and in dozens of other towns, street lighting is being modernized."
"Southern engineers will welcome the Institute in Birmingham on April 7–11 for the first t'me in many years and preliminary reports indicate that each visitor will have a generous share of the famed Southern hospitality. The local convention committee through its chairman, W.E. Mitchell, reports a cooperative movement throughout the whole South among Institute members for making the meeting a memorable occasion. A glance at the tentative papers shows that a very interesting and well balanced program has been prepared, which has a national aspect through having papers by authors from all parts of the country who stand in the front rank of engineers."
"A pleasant and most profitable visit is anticipated by all who plan to attend the Annual Convention at Edgewater Beach (Chicago) in the week of June 2 3. As is suitable for the Annual Convention, a large part of the time will be devoted to the lighter side of convention activities which include social, entertainment and sports events. Edgewater Beach, located several miles outside of Chicago, on Lake Michigan, is a most pleasant place to visit as there are many facilities for sports and social features."
"The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Philadelphia, on Thursday, February 7, 1924."
"A limited number of copies of the Report of the 1921 Paris Meeting of the International commission on illumination are available to interested parties by enclosing ten cents for postage to Howard Lyon, Secretary-Treasurer, U. S. National Committee of the International commission on illumination, Welsbach Company, Gloucester, New Jersey."
"The 12th Midwinter Convention last month was the first of its kind to be held outside of New York City, and doubt was expressed in some quarters as to the feasibility of changing the location of this function which had always been a pronounced sv ccess in New York. The convention in Philadelphia, however, dispelled all doubts on this score as it proved to be the largest convention in the history of the Institute, with an attendance of 1738 registered members and guests."
"Following the World Power Conference various other meetings, excursions, and other events are being arranged by the leading professional engineering societies of Great Britain."
"Over eight hundred members of the engineering societies cooperating with the War Department representing the New York sections of the Army Ordnance Association, the A.S.C.E., the A.I.M.E., the A.S.M.E., the A. I. E. E. and the S.A.E. assembled at the Hotel Commodore on Tuesday evening, February 5, at a dinner, after which a program for the rapid mobilization of the nation's industries in the event of emergency was explained and discussed. The purpose of this gathering was to bring the War Department's plans for mobilization of materials, as well as men, directly to the engineering profession as a means of speeding up production. It was the general tone of the meeting that industrial mobilization plans were not militaristic but were to be regarded as the best insurance against war."
"The Executive Committee of the New York Section of the A. I. E. E. appointed a Nominating Committee on February 15th as follows: Calvert Townley, Chairman, H.A. Kidder, G.L. Knight, R.D. Parker, W.K. Vanderpoel. This Committee will receive and consider any suggestions that may be offered by any member of the Section. Nominations by petition signed by not less than ten members of the Section may also be made and should be received by the Nominating Committee or"
"The Fourth National Standardization Bulletin of the American Mining Congress has just been published. The bulletin contains a comprehensive report on standardizing mining methods, practise and equipment in coal and metal mines. The following subjects are covered: timbering, drainage, underground transportation, mechanical loading, firefighting equipment, drill steel, mining and loading equipment. Copies of the bulletin may be obtained at a cost of $2.00 each by addressing the American Mining Congress, 841 Munsey Bldg., Washington, D.C."
"In January 1921, Engineering Foundation, of New York, beganprinting twice a month little leaflets entitled Research narratives. Each contained a five-minute story of research, invention or discovery. The stories, or the materials for them, were contributed by scientists and engineers of international reputation."
"Representatives of national engineering organizations on the Executive Board of the American engineering council for the coming year have been chosen as follows:"
"During the year, the Foundation printed its annual report of 120 pages and 24 Research Narratives. The annual report contained the second progress report on fatigue of metals, a report on graphitic corrosion of cast iron by J. Vipond Davies and other statements. The Narratives are going directly to many parts of the world and some of them are being reprinted in technical journals at home and abroad. A book of research stories is being prepared at the request and with the assistance of a group of directors of research in large industries. Foundations services as a clearing house and a bureau of information have continued."
"1923 was a successful year with ro outstanding features. Engineering Societies Building and its equipment have been well maintained and a few improvements effected. There have been requests for offices which could not be granted because the building has constantly been fully occupied."
"Numerous European Standards Committees have issued copies of electrical engineering standards and they, may be seen at the office of the American engineering standards committee. A brief outline follows:"
"Attention has been called to a new slide rule for standardparts, which was recently put on the market in Switzerland and exhibited at the international standardization conference at Zurick. The danger of making mistakes in transferring standard dimensions to drawings and computations is practically eliminated and, furthermore, it is used much more quickly and conveniently than the usual tables of standard parts. A reprint, giving a picture and detailed description of this slide rule, is available upon request to the American Engineering Standards Committee, 29 W. 39th St., N.Y.C. at whose offices samples of the rule may be seen."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N.Y."
"It may be of interest to persons concerned in the commercial relations between the United States and Switzerland, to learn that we have received a notice from the Consulate of Switzerland in New York, that the Swiss Industries Fair will be held from May 17th to 27th. It has for its main object, along with the consolidation of the inland markets, the promotion and restoration of international commercial relations."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a.m. to 6 p.m."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made; these are taken from the preface or the text of the book."
"JOSEPH STRUTHERS, treasurer of United Engineering Society from 1911 and of Engineering Foundation from the organization of its Board in 1915, died at the French Hospital in New York, February 18, 1924. He was secretary and treasurer of the Engineers' Club of New York since 1909. He was born in New York, 58 years ago and was educated in the public schools, College of the City of New York and Columbia School of Mines. He received the degree of Ph. D. from Columbia University in 1895, where he taught from 1885–1900. Subsequently he had various engagements connected with mining and metallurgical engineering and 1918–1920 was in the Ordnance Department of the U. S. Army. He was a member of American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, of which he was assistant editor 1903–05, assistant secretary 1906–10, editor 1906–12, a director in 1911, and secretary 1911–12."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient, not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"FORTY years ago a small group of enthusiastic electrical engineers, imbued with foresight and courage and full of professional pride, formed the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. A few days hence — on Monday evening, February 4 — in the City of Brotherly Love hallowed by Benjamin Franklin and other revered founders of the nation, the Institute will celebrate its fortieth birthday. These pioneers of 1884 created wisely and built well — in fact, better than they then could realize. Happily, many of them are still living to marvel at the great professional organization which stands as a monument to their work and which wields a worldwide influence for good. It has kept unsullied the splendid ideals of that early day, which were implied in the objects so felicitously enunciated — “The advancement of the theory and practise of electrical engineering and of the allied arts and sciences, and the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members, and the development of the individual engineer.”"
"IT is a far cry from the laws of Newton, Faraday and Maxwell to the League of Nations, world unrest, and international politics, and it is interesting to note that Dr. M. I. Pupin will attempt to make an analogy between the underlying laws of heat, electricity and gravity, and the laws underlying the forces of society and of economics. Yet the more special analogy between the uncoordinated energy of heat in a gas resulting in the indiscriminate mutual bombardment of molecules and the present social and political activities of mankind is very pretty and appealing to the mind of scientific training."
"ONE subject ever a topic of discussion when electrical engineers gather at conventions is that of adequate and proper permanent housing for existing historical electric machines and devices."
"AT intervals more or less frequent situations are presented in the daily press which point to the desirability of engineers interesting themselves in public affairs. Editorial writers on occasion sound a cry for the service of engineers in National, State and local affairs, the inspiration springing from the need of eliminating waste and of insuring economy in the expenditure of the public's money."
"The Meetings and Papers Committee of the Institute has undertaken to prepare some suggestions to authors with a view to laying down certain rules and specifications to be followed by authors in the preparation of manuscripts of Institute papers. The great increase in volume of Institute publications make specific rules necessary for the conservation of both money and time required in publishing papers."
"The need of information at one point as to power conditions in large systems for load dispatching, billing, or other purposes has led to the development of various methods of transmitting power readings over long distances. The development of superpowet emphasizes this need and the perfection of means of communicating complete information as to power and load conditions will hasten the development of superpower. We wish to discuss various automatic methods which may be employed for remote metering. Our paper will describe the following methods:"
"The following points are developed in the paper: 1. A proof of the circle diagram maintaining therein the idea of the angle between the generator and receiver voltages. 2. It is shown how the characteristics of the synchronous condenser limit the maximum power that can be transmitted over a line. 3. The effect of character of load on stability. 4. Comparison of 500-mile straightaway line with 500-mile line with condenser at mid-point."
"The static condenser is particularly desirable as a power factor corrective device since it requires no attention. To fully capitalize this advantage static condensers must be reliable. The reliability of insulation subjected to a constant potential stress, depends on the ratio between the working stress and the disruptive stress. This ratio has been kept large in all electrical apparatus and years of successful use have followed. Static condensers are described, which have been designed with insulation factors of safely such as have proved dependable in other apparatus for years. These ratios have been maintained and the product still kept on a reasonable commercial basis by increased economy in construction and use of material and by accurate check of insulation quality in every unit."
"In the larger central station steam plaids, efforts to increase the over-all economy and ease of operation were responsible for the use of motor-driven auxiliaries receiving their power from auxiliary turbogenerators, called house turbines, the exhaust from which is used for heating feed water. This scheme is reliable and economical. It is handicapped by the fact that over a considerable range of load some of the auxiliary power must be taken from the main bus or some of the energy generated must be fed to the main bus. This resulted in transfer motors generators, etc., which were additional complications. Still greater economy is possible by bleeding steam from the low-pressure stages of the main unit to heat the feed water. Considerable heat that would otherwise be rejected with the condensing water is reclaimed, thereby allowing of a smaller condenser than would otherwise be required, the performance of the main turbine also being improved due to somewhat relieving the congestion of steam in the low-pressure stages. To utilize fully the advantages of stage bleeding, the auxiliary power must be obtained from the main turbine. In order to insure an uninterrupted supply of auxiliary power to the essential drives it is suggested that an auxiliary generator be connected to and driven by the main turbine, thereby supplying the necessary reliability as long as the main turbine is available for load. Due to the advantages of variable speed drive for circulating pumps, boiler feed pumps, etc., and the necessity of having direct current for excitation, a direct-current generator may be used to advantage. The use of the direct-connected auxiliary generator with stage heating, gives a maximum of flexibility, is especially reliable in that it entirely eliminates all small turbine and gear troubles, and permits of the use of the unit scheme of grouping and supplying auxiliaries, with what appears to be a maximum of economy at no apparent increase in cost. Furthermore, the use of closed heaters with the fresh water storage located within the coiidenser hoi well seems to offer an economical and highly satisfactory solution for the de-aeration of the feed water and to eliminate the possibility of the water picking up further air after leaving the condenser."
"This paper includes a brief description of the power circuits and radio equipment used in the carrier-current system: the method of calling employed, and use, of this system as a. trouble detector and recorder of switch operation."
"In the general study of the electrical conductivity of refractories, being conducted by the Department of the Interior at the Columbus, Ohio, experiment station of the Bureau of Mines, tests have been completed ore Maryland, Indian and Italian talcs from 500 deg. cent., to and including 1000 deg. cent. These talcs at thepresent time are being used for the manufacture of electrical insulators and cores for electrical heating appliances. Since 1000 deg. cent, represents the maximum temperature at which these talcs are burned and used, tests were not carried to a higher temperature. Preliminary tests have been made on diaspore and magnesite."
"The Bureau of Standards issued in March 1918 its Circular No. 74, entitled “Radio instruments and measurements.” The demand for this circular has been such as to warrant the preparation of a revised edition, work on which is at present under way. Owing; to the rapid growth of radio communication the appliances and methods used have undergone frequent and radical changes. In this growth progress has been made largely through new inventions and applications and comparatively little attention has been paid to the refinements of measurement. This circular contains information on the more important instruments and measurements actually used in radio work. Many of the subjects with which this circular deals are, or have been, under investigation in the Bureau's laboratories and are not covered in existing publications. No attempt has been made to deal with the operation of apparatus in sending and receiving. A number of corrections and revisions have been made in the present edition and the bibliography of radio publications has been considerably extended. This publication is not yet ready for distribution."
"In considering methods for increasing the speed of telegraph circuits, the engineer is confronted by the problem of transmitting over a circuit the maximum amount of intelligence using a given frequency range, without causing undue interference, either in the circuit being considered or from that circuit to other circuits. In this paper the following two fundamentally important factors in connection with this problem are given principal attention: 1. Signal shaping, i. e., giving signals the best wave shape before impressing them on the transmitting medium so as to be able to send signal elements at maximum speed without undue interference into other circuits. 2. Choice of codes so as to transmit the maximum amount of intelligence with a given number of signal elements. These factors are discussed with the idea of indicating the best methods, as well as to give an idea of what ay be expected from these methods. In connection with the choice of codes, consideration is given to the effect of codes differing in the number of “current values” employed. By this is meant the number of different current values which are employed in a system in forming the different characters. To illustrate, an ordinary land line telegraph circuit makes use of two current values — that is, zero current and the current which flows when the battery is connected to the circuit, or it may use a current value in one direction when battery is connected to the circuit with one polarity and a second current value in the opposite direction of similar magnitude when the battery is connected to the circuit with the opposite polarity. Submarine cables, on the other hand, ordinarily employ three different current values, that is, a definite value in one direction, a similar value in Ike opposite direction, and zero current. If a quadruplex circuit is analyzed, it will be seen that there are four different current values employed. There is, of course, no theoretical limit to the number of current values which may be thus employed. The paper also contains a discussion of certain telegraph systems which have been advocated, and an endeavor is made to clear up various misconceptions relative to the possibilities of these systems"
"IN a recent broad discussion of the problems of engineering colleges, Gano Dunn, past president of the Institute, speaking of the training which should be given students, said: “Ground them thoroughly in the English language, a lack of command of which in writing and speaking is the greatest single defect in the college training of most engineers. It is not enough for an engineer to be skilled; he must make his skill prevail, and the power and culture that come from familiarity with English are tremendous forces in the success of an engineer.”"
"The results of 36 combustion tests made on a 468-h.p. boiler fired with pulverized coal at a power station of the Milwaukee Electric Railway and Light Company, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, are given in Bulletin 223, just issued by the Department of the Interior, through the Bureau of Mines. The tests were made by the fuel section of the Bureau of Mines in cooperation with the research department of the Combustion Engineering Corporation. Illinois coal was used as fuel. The object of the tests was to obtain authoritative results of the performance of pulverized coal under various conditions of furnace operation and with coal of different fineness and moisture content. The results of the tests show that in this plant an over-all boiler efficiency of 80 to 83 per cent was obtained."
"Maintenance of the transmission efficiency of the telephone plant is conducted by a special force using methods and apparatus that have been developed for this purpose. This paper gives a brief description of the transmission characteristics of some of the common types of telephone circuits, outlines a general method for measuring their transmission efficiency and describes several of the most modern types of transmission measuring sets together with a brief mention of the oscillators which supply the power for testing."
"Undoubtedly the most constructive of all the measures now being developed for the industrial advancement of Southern Italy is that for the artificial lakes in the Sila Plateau which is now well under way. This plateau reaches an altitude varying from 4,160 ft. to 6,080, covering an area of some 450 sq. miles. Two dams are being built forming a lake with a content of 500 million cu. ft. of water and another with a content of 200 million, connected by a tunnel over a mile long piercing the Monte Nero. These works when completed will supply a constant average of 160,000 h.p. Five electric central stations will be fed by this hydraulic power, the largest of which at Timpa Grande on the river Neto is already being built. It will generate a constant average of 85,000 h.p. and will be equipped with engines of 140,000 h.p. This power scheme includes plans for irrigation. Two storage dams will be built with their respective irrigation canals and ditches serving an area of 24,000 acres in the Piana di Cotrone where land reclamation schemes approved by the Ministry of Public Works are now being undertaken."
"A press notice appearing in various newspapers imparts the information that five of New York's electric signs require a total of 36,000 electric lamps which consume about 900 kilowatts of electricity. This is roughly twice the amount of electrical power used in the entire country in 1881."
"Permanently grounded transformers must be given the insulation lest by inducing the necessary voltage across the windings. The A. I. E. E. Standards specify that the time of induced voltage tests be the same as for high potential test. In certain cases where the transformers are of very large capacity the induced voltage must be made at a frequency several times higher than normal. Since the dielectric strength of most insulating materials decreases with an increase in the frequency, an investigation has been made to determine the proper and fair length of time to make induced voltage test when the frequency is higher than normal. Following are the main points brought out in the investigation. Above a certain voltage, time of voltage application as well as voltage causes failure of insulation. The dielectric strength can be expressed as a function of both time and voltage by an equation of the form $Kv. = A(a + {1-a \\over \\root {1} \\of T})$ in which A is the kilovolts necessary to cause failure in one minute, “a” is a constant representing the ratio of strength for infinite time to the one minute strength and T is time in minutes. The value of “a” varies for different materials apparently depending mostly on the dielectric loss. The breakdown by creepage over solid insulation with the electrodes either on the same side or on opposite sides of the sample (arranged in such a manner that the solid insulation is under considerable stress) is not affected by time nearly so much as is the puncture voltage of solid insulation. The behavior of oil without barriers is so erratic that no very definite relation can be obtained between time and dielectric strength. In general time decreases the strength quite rapidly for the first few seconds after which the effect decreases and probably disappears entirely after two or three minutes. The momentary strength ranges from 25 to 30 per cent higher than the one minute strength. The effect of time on the strength of solid insulation and oil in series is about the same as for solid insulation alone until the oil distance exceeds the solid insulation thickness after which it begins to be the same as for oil without barriers. The strength-time curves for solid insulation are of approximately the same shape for all frequencies from 60 to 420 cycles, although the strength decreases with an increase in frequency F approximately in accordance with the formula kv. = 1.75/ F0·137 Failure by creepage over the surface of solid insulation which is under no stress (i. e., with the electrodes on the same side of the barrier) takes place at approximately the same voltage for all frequencies from 60 to 420 cycles; but if the electrodes are so arranged (on opposite sides) that the insulation is under considerable stress the failure voltage decreases with an increase in frequency in about the same order as the puncture voltage of solid insulation does. The rupture voltage of oil is the same for both 60 and 420 cycles. The effect of frequency on the puncture voltage of solid insulation and oil in series is the same as for solid insulation until the oil distance exceeds the thickness of solid insulation, after which the effect decreases and as the oil distance increases the effect approaches that for oil without barriers. By considering the effects of both time and frequency on dielectric strength it is shown how to determine the proper length of time to make the voltage strain at higher frequencies equal to the strain at 60 cycles for one minute. 8. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS It is desired to acknowledge the valuable assistance rendered in the Testing Department by Messrs. N. M. Albert, H. L. Garver, C. F. Green, L. D. Martin and W. F. Weikel in carrying on the long and tedious tests, covering a period of three to four months."
"It is well known that when the receiver of a telephone circuit is placed face to face with the transmitting microphone, continuous oscillation may be set up, and the telephone “howls,” i. e, a continuous note of definite pitch is heard. Experiments suggested by this phenomenon have been carried out by Prof. J., T. MacGregor-Morris and Prof. E. Mallett, and are recorded in the Journal of the Institution of Electrical Engineers."
"SOME time ago, some of my work called for the accurate measurement of the peak value of voltage waves. The existing schemes for such measurement, based on a rectifier charging a condenser, did not strongly commend themselves for my purposes. Finally, I devised a scheme for measuring voltage peaks that requires only standard apparatus that is easily portable, and that can be carried to any degree of accuracy desired, without especially skillful handling. It can be applied to any periodic voltage, pulsating or alternating. As it is a zero method, it can be used where a method requiring flow of current would introduce serious error."
"The tremendous increase in inter-city passenger and truck automobile travel has brought better business to small cities situated in the line of travel. It has at the same time brought these small cities face to face with a condition of traffic and crime hazard which was not even thought of when street lighting plans were being formulated a few years ago. There is not only a general increase in local traffic over the whole city, but also a cumulative concentration of traffic on main thoroughfares resulting from inter-city traffic. Some of these highways now carry much more traffic than important streets in large cities. Unfortunately, also, with this traffic there has come the entry of reckless criminal elements from nearby large cities. Thus the small lamps and wide spacings of street lighting systems which were once considered sufficient for towns and smaller cities are now totally inadequate; in fact, the street lighting requirements on the principal thoroughfares in these towns are practically as exacting as those of the big cities."
"Dr. Elihu Thomson, Past President of the Institute, has received notification from London that the Kelvin Gold Medal has been awarded to him."
"The 20th award of the John Fritz Gold Medal was made January 18th, to Ambrose Swasey, of Cleveland, Ohio, for the building of great telescopes, benefactions to education, founding of Engineering Foundation, and the invention and manufacture of fine machine tools, precision instruments and military and naval range finders."
"The annual meeting of the American engineering council of the Federated American Engineering Societies was held in Washington, D. C., January 10–11, 1924. About fifty delegates of the twenty-seven societies represented upon the Council were in attendance, and President Mortimer E. Cooley presided."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given here, with the address as it now appears on the Institute records. Any member knowing of corrections t o these addresses will kindly communicate them at once to the office of the secretary."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient, not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Presents the title page for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"SO far as the tasks of the inventor and the engineer in improving systems of electric transmission of intelligence are concerned there is a difference in the problems of the “wire” and the “wireless” engineer."
"This paper is a study of the transmission of very large blocks of power for extraordinary distances and has for its purpose the bringing out of the major operating characteristics of such a system, the characteristics which it possesses ivhich are different from those of shorter transmissions and the duties imposed upon generators, transformers, synchronous condensers, switches, etc., primarily as affecting their design. The paper defines a superpower transmission line as a line of great length in which the charging kilovolt-amperes per mile of length is of the same order of magnitude as the reactive kilovolt-amperes developed by the full-load line current passing through the reactance of the line and in which the resistance is small relative to the reactance. Such a line is adapted for economical transmission only for a fairly definite amount of load and any great increase or decrease below this point leads to poor economy or unstability. Since, however, the load appropriate to a given line depends upon the voltage, an appropriate line can be laid out for any reasonable amount of power to be transmitted. In order to secure a definite set of conditions to serve as a specification for determining the performance of generators, transformers etc., all applying consistently to the same system, a typical hypothetical transmission has been assumed, namely, a delivery of 400,000 kw. over a distance of 500 miles over four circuits 220,000-volt at each end. The characteristics of this line are worked out showing the efficiency, condenser capacity required, data on circuit breaker arrangements, protective relays connection to receiving network, provision for spare parts, switching of units and ratings of various apparatus. It is shown that such a system is very sensitive to the receiving end voltage; when this voltage drops there will be a tendency for the generators to run away if the system is not properly laid out. In addition a discussion is given of the effects of various prescribed values for the terminal voltage between 220,000 and 245,000 to show the effect of increasing the voltage 10 per cent. of maintaining the generating end 10 per cent higher than the receiving end and also of stabilizing the middle point with synchronous condensers. The typical hypothetical case chosen shows one layout, it being recognized that other layouts may be chosen. This particular layout is operated without any high-tension switching of live lines. The layout is intended to relieve the duly on circuit breakers and as a matter of fact no breaker can be called upon to interrupt a short circuit of more than 3/4 of a million kilovolt-amperes; this is a very favorable condition and is secured without materially limiting the equalization of the load. The layout connects with the assumed distribution net al a considerable number of points and no large portion of the total delivered power can be concentrated at any one point; this serves to secure a very intimate connection between the network and the transmission, and at the same time prevents any one breakdown, however, complete, from materially disturbing the major portion of the transmission system."
"The 150-kv. system operated for some years by the Southern California Edison Company has not made use of automatic operation of circuit breakers. The multiplication of generating stations and connections which accompanied the change to 220-kv. makes desirable the automatic section-alizing of the line in cases of trouble and, therefore, requires circuit breakers for automatic operation similar to that obtained on more moderate voltage systems. Circuit breakers have been manufactured for this service with high rupturing capacity and the designs have followed closely the standard designs for more moderate voltages."
"It has been suggested frequently that the failure of high-voltage armature bars might be due to deterioration caused by gaseous ionization in entrapped air spaces. In an earlier paper a series of tests on a number of 6600-vollage mica folium armature bars made up with different degrees of mica content was described. The variations of the dielectric losses with voltage and with temper lure were studied and by means of the application of pressure it was shown to what extent losses due to internal ionization were present. The influence of these ionization losses on the life of the bars was also studied. The tests of the foregoing paper are continued in the present paper, extending to a wider range of type of armature insulation. The general results are as follows: 1. The absolute values of loss due to internal ionization in well constructed armature bars are small compared with dielectric losses of other types. 2. The losses due to internal ionization do, however, cause a progressive deterioration of the insulation. This is shown by a gradual increase in the loss and power factor of the insulation. 3. It is indicated that the principal function of mica in this type of insulation is in the reduction of the conductivity of the insulation and the withstanding of the action of internal ionization. The indications are that full mica folium content can be safely reduced only by use of the best grade of mica folium and the best conditions of application without variation. Several bars having relatively low mica content have compared favorably with those having the maximum mica content, indicating reliable insulation over long periods. It appears that high mica content is necessary in order to maintain a high factor of safety to cover the variations in factory processes. 4. In the drying out period this type of insulation is subject to great danger from relatively brief periods of application of voltage. During these periods the losses are high, internal temperature is raised, with further increase of loss, leading to breakdown. The greatest increase of loss in this danger period is in the range 25 deg. to 50 deg. cent. 5. The drying out period at 125 deg. cent. and during which normal voltage may not be applied to the insulation for more than a minute or two, varied in the specimens studied from fifteen days to three months."
"This paper describes unusual and very desirable results that are obtained on priming tungsten filament three-electrode vacuum tubes with an alloy of potassium and sodium when such tubes are used as detectors of radio frequency currents in receiving circuits. The method of preparing lite tubes and of introducing the alloy is described in some detail. Data obtained for these alkali vapor tubes are shown in the form of curves. They show the static characteristics of the tube, the operation characteristics rohen used as detectors, also the effect of filament temperature increase upon their performance. The results obtained when the tubes are used as detectors include — lower optimum plate voltage (5 to 10 volts), less critical adjustment of plate voltage, steady action, considerably greater sensitiveness to weak signals than for gas content lubes, and no distortion in detector action."
"This paper briefly reviews the development of power transmission, pointing out the power limitations of long distance, high capacity transmission systems. The paper serves as a general introduction to a group of papers, giving the results of analytical and experimental investigations of the power limits and stability of transmission systems. This group of papers which is to be presented at the A. I. E. E. Midwinter Convention includes, in addition to this paper by Mr. Hanker, papers by R. D. Evans and H. K. Sels; R. D. Evans and R. C. Bergvall; and C. L. Fortescue and C. F. Wagner."
"The A. I. E. E. rules for the use of the sphere gap require a correction to be made to the indicated voltage for any variations of either temperature or barometric pressure from the standard values.1 Where this correction has to be performed frequently the straight line chart here described has been found both to save time and insure accuracy."
"The most important chapters in electrical engineering are those dealing with efficiency, heating, magnetism and insulation."
"THE now classic and interesting experiment of Onnes is quite instructive. By reducing the resistance of a solid copper ring to very nearly zero (by lowering its temperature to nearly absolute zero) he found that when a current is started in this ring it continues to flow for a long while, because the resistance to its flow is nearly zero."
"Review of the Subject — Several independent studies have been made recently to determine the economies of a large, uniform power system. The two studies of more general interest were those conducted by the Department of the Interior, under the direction of W. S. Murray, for the Superpower Zone, and by F. G. Baum for the United States. Both of these investigations are available in published form. During the progress of the Superpower Survey, one of the longest transmission lines proposed was that extending 350 miles from the Niagara Falls Development to New York City. Under emergency conditions on this line, the power limit for the maximum amount of power was approached by two twin-circuit lower lines with three circuits carrying the emergency load. The maximum power limit would have been exceeded if two single-circuit tower lines had been employed, even though the transmission voltages and the total copper cross-section were the same as with the two twin-circuit lower lines. Similarly, several long, high-voltage lines will be required in a nation-wide system, especially through the middle western region as shown by Mr. Baum's report. The tendency to extensive transmission systems has emphasized the necessity of considering the factors which will limit the amount of power that can be transmitted any distance with the highest practical transmission voltage. On account of the transmission line characteristics, the power limits will be greater when the system is regulated by synchronous apparatus than when those such apparatus is used so that two power limits will be considered in this paper; first, for an unregulated system; and second, for a regulated system. However, while we are primarily interested in high-voltage systems in this paper, it should be kept in mind that these same methods of calculation may be applied to lower voltages in determining the power limitations of station tie lines. It is commonly accepted that different types of networks have certain power limitations. For example, a very simple case quite generally known is that of a simple resistance circuit in which the power delivered is a maximum when the resistance of the load is equal to that of the line. Another familiar case is that of the electric arc furnace where the maximum power occurs when the resistance of the furnace arc is equal to the reactance of the electric furnace leads. The general phenomenon of maximum power limit in circuits of fixed reactance and variable resistance or load has been recognized and Us theory worked out for numerous cases, such as short transmission lines, rotating machines, and transformers. A power transmission system may be regarded as a special type of network. Ordinarily it consists of long, high-tension transmission lines and apparatus connecting generating stations with distant load centers which may be either at the terminus or at intermediate points on the high-tension lines. In large systems, the high-tension lines may form a network similar to an ordinary local distribution system. Where synchronous condensers are not installed, the problem of the maximum amount of power which may be delivered through the system is similar to the simple resistance and reactance cases cited above in that additional load or shunt impedance simply alters the load and voltage in accordance with the relative impedances of the system. The employment of synchronous condensers at the load centers or along the transmission lines to alter the power factor and maintain the voltage at the load materially increases the maximum amount of power that may be desired over a given transmission network. The theoretical maximum amount of power however, cannoi be obtained under operating conditions because the synchronous equipment at the receiver drops out of step with the supply. Also, fluctuations in load will produce unstable conditions, which may accumulate sufficiently to cause the momentary swings in load to exceed the power limit, resulting in the receiver falling out of step with the supply at a lower load than it would under steady conditions. This is usually characterized as “hunting out of step.” In order to investigate the power limitations of a transmission system, it was necessary to rearrange and extend the present methods of transmission line calculations to make them more convenient for the study of the practical limit of maximum power. The method which has been found best adapted for this purpose is a development of the power circle diagram combined with the characteristic curves of the synchronous machines used to regulate the system. This power diagram has been mode applicable to all the types of transmission systems by including the transmission line, step-up and step-down transformers, series and parallel circuits, so that the most complex transmission system may be represented by a single equivalent set of transmission constants. A general discussion of the methods of calculation, the maximum power limits, the practical operating limit and illustrated examples is given in Part I of the paper, and the analytical development upon which the discussion is based is given in Part II"
"The demand for small rectifiers has grown during the last few years because of the increasing use of small portable storage batteries requiring low charging currents and also because of the increasing practise of charging larger batteries at low rates, known as “trickle charging.” On account of this growing use and the general lack of information about the performance of such rectifiers the Bureau of Standards undertook a study of their comparative efficiencies under different conditions of service."
"The current edition of the National Electrical Safety Code is being revised according to the Rules of Procedure of the American Engineering Standards Committee. The revision of Part 2 dealing with underground and overhead line construction was started last year and is being handled by a large Sectional Committee and eight sub-committees. The same Sectional Committee will consider changes to Part 4."
"Low-speed electric elevators, using d-c. motors, came into use about 1890. Later, a-c. motors were employed, but on account of the difficulty of speed control could not be used for the high speeds necessary in tall buildings. Since the height of buildings is dependent upon the elevator system, and in many districts only a-c. is available, the need for high-speed equipments that can be operated from a-c. is evident. A solution to the problem is found in the variable voltage system of control."
"Interestiscontinuing to grow in the coming Midwinter Convention which will be held in Philadelphia, February 4 to 8. The special featuresoftheconvention which willattract wide a ttention are a series of talks by railroad officials and other prominentmen, thecelebration of the for tie than niversary of the Institute, thepresentation of the Edison Medal and the dedication ofthe Moore School of Electrical E ngineering. In the technical programt here are included papers on transmission, measuring instruments, electrical machinery, elevators, telephony electrophysics and anumber of other engineering subj ects. Philadelphia is a city of unusual historic interest and v sits to places famed in history as well as those which hold engineering interest will add to the pleasure of the meeting. Other enjoyable entertainment features also are being arranged."
"The Edison Medal for the year 1923 has been awarded by the Edison Medal Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers to John William Lieb of New York, N. Y., “for the development and operation of electric central stations for illumination and power.”"
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The regularbi — monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute head quarters, New York, on Friday, December 14,1923."
"The Library Board has long wished to establish a lending department in the Engineering Societies Library, but has found it impossible to do so, as its resources were not large enough to permit the necessary duplication of books. Recently, however, a plan has been proposed for lending books on a rental basis. This plan, having been endorsed by the Founder Societies and the United Engineering Society, has been adopted."
"As provided in Section 19 of the Institute By-Laws, candidates may now be proposed for no mination for th e offices tobe filled at the next an nual election in May, 1924, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less thantwenty-five members. The petitions or separate endorsementsmust be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25,1924. For the conveniences of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available. A member is not limited in the number of candidates he may endorse in this manner."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Foun'der Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Atlanta. — November 27, 1923. Subject: “Physical Construction of Grounds.” Speaker: H. M. Towne, of the General Electric Co., Discussion followed the talk. Attendance 30."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"The Engineering Societies Employment service is conducted by the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available to their membership, and maintained by the joint contributions of the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN A VAILABLE. — Under this heading brief announcements will be published without charge to the members. These announcements will not be repeated, except upon request received after an interval of three months, during which period names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau. Employers are referred to previous issues of the Journal. Notice for the JOURNAL should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City. Such notices will not be acknowledged by personal letter, but if received prior to the 16th of the month will usually appear in the issue of the following month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A bulletin of engineering positions available will be published and will be available to members of the societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions. It is believed that a successful service, can be developed if these contributions average $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum, temporary positions (of one month or less), three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, and forwarded to the Employment service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled, will not be forwarded."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An enjoyable way of seeing some of the most wonderful scenery of the West is being offered in the special trip which will be made from the East in connection with the Fall Convention of the Institute at Pasadena, October 13–17. A special train or special cars will carry a large group of Institute members, making stops at a number of places of interest. The round trip will require about one month, starting late in September. Special rates will be available. Although the plans for the trip have only recently been formulated a large number of prominent members is already on the list of those who intend to take the journey, and the list is growing daily."
"Increasing voltages employed in transmitting large amounts of power over long distances emphasize the need of a better line insulator for this purpose. This paper outlines the conditions under which a suspension-type insulator has been experimentally developed for such use. In the form described, it consists of metallic terminal members to suitably distribute the electric flux and an insulating, impregnated wood (or other material) mechanical strain member, concentric with the hollow electric field produced between the metallic terminal members. The unit described is designed for use on 110,000-volt power lines,. two similar units in series for 220,000-volt lines and, when necessary, three units in series on 330,000-volt lines. The fundamental principles of the insulator are established and later continued experience in service may or may not modify detail."
"A great many uncoordinated researches and observations have been made of lightning on transmission lines both in the field and in the laboratory. It is the purpose of this paper to coordinate this work with a view of determining the various types and order of magnitude of predatory voltages to which transmission lines are subject. No claim is made for exact results. If it were possible to obtain such results, they could apply only to specific cases. A knowledge of the general types of disturbances and their order of magnitude should be of great value in determining the best means of providing against them. Failures of apparatus can be provided against in a number of ways, for instance, by excessive insulation; by less insulation but a design to prevent local high stresses; by prevention of high lightning voltages by placing the line under ground; by greatly limiting the possible voltage by a ground wire; by limiting the time of application of the high voltage by arresters; or by combinations of the above. Obviously, the matter of design and economics is also of importance in considering the problem of protection. The technical part of the discussion will not be limited to cloud lightning, but will cover other disturbances. Recent work of the author with his lightning generator and model transmission lines with and without ground wire will be included."
"THE past few months has seen the completion of a new 20–16 in. hot strip mill in the plant of the West Leechburg Steel Company at West Leechburg, Pa. The mill is entirely new and designed to roll thin strips. The finishing stands are arranged in tandem in close proximity to each other so that the work on the thin metal is completed before it has time to suffer any great loss in temperature."
"The practises of the station operator in regard to circuit breakers are largely governed by his previous experience, his system and conditions on his system. For instance, a very large system may cover a very large area and have a very great capacity connected, but be of such a character that there is very little interconnecting, with very simple switching, and it may have no very great power capacity concentrated at any one point. On the other hand, the system may be very great in power capacity and cover such a small area that the potential of the system is rather low, and on account of the dependability of low potential and the lack of the necessity of numerous ties, the concentration of power is easily limited. In the first case, we find potential so high, and the breaker has to be so large to safely handle the potential, that lightning is not much of a factor, and the current is so small that it is really insignificant in such a large breaker. In the second case, the currents are greater and the breakers of necessity have to be large and substantial to withstand the great magnetic stresses, but such systems generally are confined to a small, closely built area, largely underground, where lightning is a small factor, and they are not interconnected to a great extent on account of the greater reliability of the low potential of the system. The breakers are not subject to such excess capacities, hence the low-potential breaker problem is not such a difficult one."
"UNTIL a short time ago little thought was given to the hydroelectric possibilities in the South and still less was its economic value appreciated. Coal was cheap and easily obtainable. Consequently, power could be generated cheaper with coal than by water. It is, therefore, an everlasting tribute to those pioneers with vision and courage, who in the face of such adverse conditions ventured into developing water powers and laid the foundations for the great hydroelectric developments that we have today in the South."
"Surfaces or pole-face losses are assumed to be governed by ten factors and the influence of each on the resulting losses is considered. After reviewing the work of the previous investigators an account is given of some rather extensive tests recently completed by the writers. These tests cover results obtained on an experimental salient pole machine and an experimental 3-phase induction motor. Data are given for various types and thicknesses of commercial sheet. For a given material and machine the surface losses are assumed to be a function of the air-gap induction, ratio of slot width to single air gap, tooth frequency and slot pitch or width. The laws of variation of surface losses with respect to these variables are determined from experimental results and are shown to be in general exponential. The relation between hysteresis and eddy-current losses and the effect of variations in thickness and resistivity of laminations is considered in some detail. Simple methods are given for applying these results to actual design problems which involve plotting the various functions on double log paper, a slide rule being then sufficient for all calculations. The appendix gives a description of a graphical method of separating the various types of core losses which exist in a polyphase induction motor."
"The paper discusses the various methods of meeting the substation problem at the mines, with particular reference to the automatic control of such stations. A brief outline of the method of operation and protection provided for both synchronous converter and synchronous motor-generator equipments, is given. Conclusions are drawn as to the advantages of automatic operation."
"In this paper, the author presents a physical conception and simple non-mathematical analysis of the short-circuit phenomena of alternating-current generators. Formulas are developed for the maximum instantaneous values of the armature and field short-circuit currents delivered by both single and polyphase generators, which are equipped with and without damper windings."
"THE advantages and disadvantages of synchronous motors are well understood. Broadly speaking, such machines have a poor starting and good operating characteristic. They can be made to operate at almost any desired power factor but are not always free from “hunting” and come to an abrupt stop when overloaded. It is not easy to secure high overload capacity together with high weight efficiency."
"Nickel anodes, such as are used for replenishing the solution in nickel plating, have formed the subject of a recent investigation at the Bureau of Standards. The purpose was to determine the relative behavior of different forms of nickel, such as electrolytic, rolled, and cast nickel, in the solutions used for electroplating. A study was also made of the effect of impurities, both accidental and purposely added."
"The increasing demand for electrical energy has made necessary the interconnection of present systems and the development of additional hydroelectric power projects. These new developments are in many cases at points remote from load centers, and the transmission problems involve distances, amounts of energy, reliability, and voltages for their economic transmission in excess of previous operating practise."
"Pursuant of the recent practise, the report of this committee is submitted in two principal sections; the first being an outline of the committee's plan (of October 11, 1923, in which the plans for the year were generally formulated) and work, and the second a brief resume of the advance in lighting for the year."
"The committee was organized, subcommittees were appointed and the first meeting was held November 8th. Three subsequent meetings were held. A good portion of the time of the committee's members has been devoted to the work of the Sectional Committee of the American Engineerin Standards Committee for Electrical Installation on Shipboard."
"During the past Institute year this committee had charge of an Institute Session at the Midwinter Convention in Philadelphia where two papers on the “Electric Elevator” were presented followed by a very interesting discussion of this important topic."
"The Publication Committee in recent months has received a number of letters bearing upon the subject of the type of engineering literature which should predominate in the JOURNAL. The only letters published have been those which favor an increase in the amount of highly technical and mathematical material. Several such letters have been published in the JOURNAL in recent months. A letter from Mr. William J. Shore, here reproduced, is typical of the letters received which take an opposite view"
"In the above-named article by H.B. Dwight [ibid., Vol. XLII, 1923, August, p. 827] the formula derived and presented by was first derived by Oliver Heaviside and published by him in the \"London Electrician\" for August 6, 18R6 (p. 252). The article is reprinted in \"Electrical Papers,\" Vol. 2, p. 67. Heaviside's formula for the case of a circular tube in which the current distribution is not affected by the return circuit is given in his equation (50b), p. 69, and again in a different form in (52b) in the \"Electrical Papers.\" Dwight aknowledges the earlier work of Heavyside and comments on the use of Bessel functions in calculating the results."
"Just as tables of recommended illumination values have had to be revised upward again and again as accumulating experience has demonstrated the value of higher illumination levels, so has it been necessary again to increase the upper limit of the foot-candle meter scale. The latest type of instrument will read any illumination value from twelve-thousandths of a foot-candle to one hundred foot-candles. It may be used equally well for measuring the illumination from street lighting equipment or the intensity in a well lighted show window."
"The World Power Conference held in London June 30th to July 12th proved to be an exceedingly important and successful gathering of Engineers and others interested in the development, conservation and utilization of the power resources of the World."
"The Institution of electrical engineers had arranged a particularly attractive programme for the entertainment of the visiting Electrical Engineers in London July 10–15. About a year previously the Institution had extended an invitation to the A. I. E. E. to send a delegation to London to participate in a special series of Meetings and other events. In response to notices published in the JOURNAL about 65 members filed their names and were designated by the President of the Institute as members of the delegation. They were accompanied by approximately an equal number of ladies of their families."
"At the June meeting of the Executive Committee of the Library Board it was decided to adopt the policy of interlibrary loans which is in use by the more important libraries of the country. The rules of the American Library Association for the conduct of inter-library loans will be followed. This will make it possible for members to borrow, through local public or college libraries, books that are rare or unusual and that are needed in research work, and which are not available through our regular lending service."
"An exceptionally good list of papers, a gathering of Institute pioneers, exeeutivess and prominent engineers, a special trip from the East and the scenic wonders of the West are the outstanding attractions of the coming Pacific Coast Convention in Pasadena, October 13 to 17. Much interest is already being shown in the excursion trip from the East in which the members will have an unusual opportunity for traveling together in a congenial party. More details about this trip are published elsewhere in this issue."
"The Executive Committee of Geographical District No . 2  met at the Penn-Harris Hotel, Harrisburg, PA, USA, on June 6th. Representatives of the Baltimore, Erie, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Washington, DC sections attended. Vice-President William F. Jame s of Philadelphia presided as Chairman and R.B. Mateer, chairman of the Philadelphia Section, acted as Secretary.  After a brief resume of the work accomplished in the District in 1922 and 1923, the delegates were invited to suggest subjects for discussion in regard to ways of benefiting the Section."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Edgewater Beach Hotel, Chicago, IL, USA, on Thursday, June 26, 1924. The meeting's results are reported."
"This item describes a summary report by The Storage of Coal Committee of the AEC that is the result of more than a year's survey of the national coal situation."
"A brief biography of Benjamin G. Lamme is given highlighting his professional achievements. At the time of his death he was chief engineer of the Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., and chairman of the board of editors of the \"Electric Journal,\" its engineering magazine. He was one of two members of the Institute who were appointed on the Naval Consulting Board during the [First World] War, and was chairman of the Inventions' Committee of that Board."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, NY. All members are urged to notify the Institute headquarters promptly of any change in mailing or business address, thus relieving the members of needless annoyance and also assuring the prompt delivery of Institute mail, the accuracy of our mailing records, and the elimination of unnecessary expense for postage and clerical work."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient, not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"At a session of the Meetings and Papers Committee held November 14th at Institute Headquarters a number of important matters was discussed. These included the coming Midwinter, Spring and Annual Conventions, district or regional meetings, and the relation of Technical Committees to Standards work."
"A description is given of the physical and electrical characteristics of the Pit-Vaca 220-kv. transmission likely to affect corona loss. The line contains three distinct configurations and two sizes of conductor. Corona loss measurements were made from Pit Power House on the three configurations and from Vaca Substation on one of the configurations. Three methods of measuring corona losses were used at Pit and four at Vaca. The measured corona losses were found to follow exponential laws in three distinct phases; below visual corona, visual corona and visual corona with losses sufficiently high to produce voltage distortion. At no point did the losses follow a quadratic law. A review of the reports of the results of corona loss tests on other lines indicates that the corona losses followed exponential laws."
"THE timber resources of the Great West are estimated at about 1450 billion feet of saw timber or about one-half of the total stand in the United States. Of the remaining stands, the South has about one-fourth and the remainder of the United States one-fourth."
"The advances in the field of electrical advertising have by no means lagged behind developments in other fields. This fact has been revealed with more emphasis than ever before with the appearance within recent months of a new electric sign in New. York City of enormous proportions. This sign is nearly a full city block in length and is as high as a five story house. O∼er its vast framework, 21 miles of wire distribute 267 kilowatts of energy to its 19,000 lamps."
"It is the purpose of this paper to present a general picture of the practical applications of methods of measuring transmission efficiency in the Bell System which have been developed by study and experience under plant operating conditions. The rapid growth of the telephone industry has made it necessary that these methods be such as to allow them to be applied on a larger scale in a systematic and economical manner."
"This paper represents a brief graphical-analytical exposition, followed by a mathematical development of the harmonics due to slot openings not included in this abridgement. These were proved to be even and odd multiples of the number of slots plus and minus one. The modifications upon the torque speed curves of these harmonics have been discussed. A simple Fourier analysis underlies the whole phenomena."
"The maintenance of telephone circuits in a high state of efficiency with respect to balance is important since unbalances contribute to crosstalk between telephone circuits and to noise when such circuits are involved in inductive exposures. Methods and apparatus are described which afford operating telephone companies means for maintaining their circuits in the condition of minimum practicable unbalance. Different types of unbalance are discussed, also their effects under different conditions of energization of the unbalanced circuit and neighboring conductors. Methods are described for determining: (1) The general condition of circuits with respect to balance by crosstalk measurements from their terminals, (2) The approximate location of unbalances along a line by measurements over a range of frequencies with a bridge at one end of the line, and (3) The final location of unbalances by field measurements with an unbalance detector which may be operated by a lineman and does not usually require interruption of telephone service, except momentarily. Toll circuit office unbalances are briefly discussed and a special bridge for detecting, locating and measuring the unbalances of composite sets is described. In an appendix is given a mathematical treatment of the bridge method for locating unbalances and a discussion of the necessity of terminating the circuits involved in the tests in their characteristic line impedances."
"The present paper is an extension of my earlier work which was found necessary in order to account for the observed convection for both large and small temperature differences."
"To prevent in large generating and distribution systems the possible concentration of enormous amounts of electrical energies at certain critical points, makes the extensive use of the current-limiting reactor a necessity."
"The investigation of transient conditions is vitally important in elevator engineering, both electrical and mechanical. In no other method of human transportation are traveled distances so short and speeds and loads so frequently varied. Passengers must be hoisted and lowered safely and expeditiously. Landings must be accurately made. The elevator is consequently a machine that is very sensitive to transient effects and the entire apparatus must therefore be designed on the basis of transient analysis."
"At the mid-winter convention of the A. I. E. E. in February, 1924, the writer presented a paper on the maximum instantaneous values of the currents delivered by alternating-current generators under different short-circuit conditions. A summarized table was given for the maximum values of the short-circuit currents for different winding combinations of an ideal generator on the basis of a constant field flux, and that the short-circuit occurs at the instant the axis of the field winding coincides with the axis of the particular portion of the armature winding under consideration."
"This article gives results of a study of the vibrations of small single-phase induction motors, with a view to determining their causes and eliminating the noise which they produce. The possible sources of such vibrations were analyzed, and an experimental study was made in which the principal cause was definitely determined to be the double-frequency variation of the electro-magnetic torque developed by the motor. This variation of torque is fairly obvious when it is considered that the power input to the motor is pulsating and the output is uniform, but it was found that the torque variation at no-load was also very pronounced, a fact which does not seem to have been previously described. A description of the experiments made, a theoretical analysis of the torque variations, and a comparison of test with calculated results are given."
"The essential features in the design, installation and operation of current-limiting reactors are pointed out. The application of reactors to different circuits is not treated because a number of good papers dealing with this subject has been presented at Institute meetings."
"This paper, to a certain extent, is in the nature of a log covering several years' test on a line of dynamotors. The flashing characteristics of series and compound-wound motors are discussed with special reference to these tests. The principles derived from the study of these machines have, however, been applied successfully to other motors. Machines of this type are apt to have a critical flash point, depending upon the constants of the electric and magnetic circuits. The oscillograph has been used to determine the best relation of shunt to series field for a given difference of speed between full load and no load. Methods of improving the flashing characteristics of a given machine are discussed. In some cases it is shown that a damper on a series-wound motor gives better flashing characteristics. An attempt to explain the nature of a flashover on a d-c. machine is made."
"The safety of electric power cables is dependent in part upon the maximum electrostatic flux density in the dielectric. The core loss in revolving machinery is, in part, a pole face loss, dependent on variations in the magnetic flux density. Alternators work best in parallel, and give less interference with communication circuits, if of a good wave form, of flux density. These fields of electrostatic and magnetic flux are often too irregular to lend themselves to an accurate computation, and hence experimental methods of study are needed. The writers have improved a method suggested by F. W. Carter, and the results obtained give promise of a field for useful study. The method itself may be briefly described as measuring an electric model of the field to be studied cut out of sheet metal. By the use of a contact-making device, with two contacts, held at a fixed distance apart, but movable to any part of the edge of the metal sheet, voltage gradients may be measured upon a galvanometer. From these measurements, the flux densities may be calculated. The paper describes the method in detail and also gives some results of study on the three problems mentioned. It is shown how this method of test can be used to improve pole-shoe design. The importance of pole-shoe design is pointed out. An appendix is included showing that correct pole-shoe design is needed to eliminate the so-called “tooth ripples.”"
"The problem is to determine the effect of altitude in increasing the temperature rise of electrical apparatus. Stated in detail, heat is dissipated from the various surfaces of apparatus principally by convection and radiation. The former is a function both of temperature rise and of air density, that is, of altitude; the latter, of temperature rise only. The energy loss in the apparatus, that is, the heat to be dissipated, is not changed significantly by altitude. Thus, lower air density at higher altitude means decreased convection. Hence, higher temperature, which increases both convection and radiation, is required to carry off the same heat. Specifically, then, the problem is to relate these several factors so that quantitative calculations can be made for various types of apparatus."
"Oxidation is the cause of almost all of the troubles that develop in service in connection with transformer oil and it is thought by the authors of this paper that the obvious remedy for such troubles is to isolate the oil completely from contact with the oxygen of the air. A new method of providing this complete protection in the Inertaire transformer is described."
"By the use of some new experimental data of the resistance of conducting vapors the conclusion is reached that the current in a streak of lightning oscillates. Starting with experimental value of 4500 volts per centimeter, as the average potential gradient for the electrostatic field between the thunder-cloud and earth, some astonishingly high values for the factors involved in lightning resulted. For more than a decade the average current in a lightning stroke of 10,000 amperes has been accepted. The calculations in this paper show a value as great as one-and-a-half-million amperes. Some of the other factors correspondingly large are as follows: The energy stored in the electrostatic field is 700 kilowatt-hours. The maximum power expended in the discharge is 860-billion kilowatts. The frequency for the particular stroke calculated, one mile long, is lower than former estimates, — about 50,000 cycles per second."
"After defining briefly the problem of the selection of a proper high-voltage transmission conductor, the authors discuss the difficulties that caused the failure of their earlier attempts to measure corona losses at the Stanford University laboratory."
"The present paper has its inception in the need of a correct understanding of the behavior of selective circuits when subjected to irregular and random interference, and of devising a practically useful figure of merit for comparing circuits designed to reduce the effects of this type of interference. The problem is essentially a statistical one and the results must be expressed in terms of mean values. The mathematical theory is developed from the idea of the spectrum of the interference and the response of the selective circuit is expressed in terms of the mean square current and mean power absorbed. The application of the formulas deduced to the case of static interference is discussed and it is shown that deductions of practical value are possible in spite of meagre information regarding the precise nature and origin of static interference."
"This paper describes a two-unit automatic station which supplies power to a 3-wire, 250-volt, d-c. Edison network. It covers a general description of the machines and of some of the devices, of the scheme of automatic operation employed in controlling these machines, and of the method of protecting against emergency conditions."
"Much has been written about the electrical characteristics of insulators but comparatively little about the limitations of the air as determining their performance. In this paper the limitations of the insulating systems due to their low efficiency at high frequency is discussed. Attention is called to the necessity of raising the high frequency efficiency in order to eliminate flash-overs, also the advisability of considering string gradient as a means of improving the unit factor of safety rather than as an essential in itself in order that one characteristic in the insulator may not be improved at the expense of another or more important essential. The possibility of taking advantage of increased flashover voltage due to the use of insulated controls is discussed on the basis of utilizing the difference in time lag to protect connected apparatus which may be subjected to increased voltage."
"The writer presented a paper in 1919 on the three-conductor cable, giving experimental results for assisting in the calculation of quantities such as capacity, insulation resistance, dielectric loss, temperature rise, etc., and also data on the calculation of stresses at various points in the dielectric. Most of the data were based on cable models composed of metallic electrodes surrounded by conducting electrolyte. In the present paper the old data are amplified both in regard to geometric properties and stresses of three-conductor cables, not only in regard to the range of sizes covered, but especially, inasmuch as the present paper includes cables with sector-shaped conductors. The cable models used are entirely different, being in the form of tinfoil sheets. Curves are given by means of which stresses can be calculated in various important parts of the cross-section of three-conductor cables with either round or sector-shaped conductors."
"The application of the induction frequency converter is not new, but its use for connecting together very large systems has not been undertaken until the machines described in this paper were put in operation. This paper describes the rating and mechanical construction of the two units, with special attention to the induction machine."
"Walker, Skinner, Addenbrooke, Rayner, Orlich, Schultze, Thielers and others have given a great amount of useful information on electrometers for the measurement of dielectric loss. We have found instruments made somewhat after the design of Skinner and Rayner, so rugged and so useful as laboratory instruments, even when the instrument is subjected to severe jars and mechanical vibration, and capable of such great accuracy that we have spent considerable time developing methods of use and investigating the sources of error. Our instruments are essentially high-voltage instruments as the needle may have impressed upon it voltages up to about 8500 volts. One of these instruments has been in use almost continuously since 1913, a period of ten years, and for the last seven years it has been continually in use without needing repairs of any sort, in spite of breakdowns of the load being measured, and no adjustments have been made except an occasional turning of the quadrant leveling screws."
"Standardization is a subject that is very much discussed. The advantages of standardization have long been realized by industrial and manufacturing companies. The electric light and power companies seems to be slow in adopting standards of construction and this article relates the experience of one company who tried it out."
"In the paper, the author has given a complete comprehensive description of the various uses to which electric power is put in and around the mines, together with some interesting figures in regard to the amount of electric power now used and that which is still to be electrified."
"This paper describes a device which is used with the oscillograph for the visual study of transients and for obtaining improved photographic records as illustrated by oscillograms. The principle uses of the transient visualizer are: (1) To make curves of transient phenomena stationary on the screen of the oscillograph where they may be studied visually."
"A large proportion of the recent contributions to the engineering literature on street lighting has been from the viewpoint of engineers interested in. the sale of electricity or equipment. In this paper the problem is approached by a representative of the municipality."
"The paper describes the conversion equipment serving the Edison System in Cincinnati and the application of automatic machines and controls to that system. During two years' operating experience with automatic equipment, it was found to be very reliable and to operate much quicker than manually-controlled equipment. Tests on the automatic equipment show it to be very valuable for service restoration work."
"This paper deals with a field of engineering in which electrical, chemical and metallurgical engineers are all interested, and have responsibilities. It contains a discussion of electrical power utilization developments which are based upon fundamental principles of physical chemistry and electro-chemistry. It outlines the particular functions of the electrical engineer and indicates his close co-relationship with the chemist and metallurgist in the solution of such industrial problems. It deals only with metals which are ordinarily employed in construction or manufacture and in the production of which large quantities of electrical power are employed. Smelting and electrolytic methods are compared; data and illustrations on plants and equipment for the production of iron, zinc, copper, nickel, aluminum, etc., are included."
"The development within recent years of high-voltage rectifying tubes has made possible the construction of an apparatus which may be used to produce very high-voltage surges of steep wave front, believed to be comparable in potential and capacity to surges caused by lightning discharges taking place near transmission lines. With such an apparatus it has become possible to conduct tests on lightning arresters which show clearly the kind of performance these arresters are giving in service."
"This paper discusses acceptance tests of hydroelectric plants and explains the various methods of testing hydraulic turbines. Various units which compose this equipment are described and the author shows how to apply the data obtained in the most economical and efficient way. The article contains a number of illustrations to emphasize and make clearer the analysis, which he sums up in the theorem: “The load should be divided between two or more units so as to obtain equal values of the first derivatives of the power discharge-curve of each unit.” A table, showing the correct division of load, is given, which operators would find helpful."
"Some broadcast receiving sets now in use cannot be tuned conveniently to stations broadcasting on frequencies higher than 1000 or 1200, i. e., not below 300 or 250 m. The Third National Radio Conference recommended that the broadcast band of frequencies be extended to 1500 kilocycles (200 m). This emphasizes the importance of the production of sets which will tune conveniently at the higher frequencies, and the desirability of information on how to use existing sets so that all stations may be tuned in. The range of receiving sets which employ a single tuned circuit, (i. e., where the antenna is part of the tuned circuit) may be extended to the higher frequencies without much difficulty. This applies both to crystal and tube sets. It can be done very simply by providing a fixed condenser (about 0.0002 microfarad) in series with the antenna which may be switched in or out of the circuit. The settings of the dials are different when the condenser is in and out of circuit. Shortening of the antenna likewise reduces the capacitance and consequently increases the maximum frequency (minimum wave length) to which the set will tune."
"SUPERPOWER, or giant power, as Governor Pinchot prefers to call it, has been very much before the public for the last two years. General Tripp with his clear vision and masterly exposition of this great subject has done much to clarify and make understandable to the general public the problem involved and the effect of its solution. The appeal to the imagination of a completely electrified country has resulted in great public interest in the matter, so that it is but natural for the politicians seeking an issue and the advocates of government ownership to give their attention to this new problem as being fraught with more possibilities than the more settled railroad, telephone and telegraph systems. While there is a tremendous engineering problem involved, there are other and equally important phases that must be carefully considered before superpower and complete interconnection will be an accomplished fact."
"I am unusually glad of the opportunity to speak to you tonight, for it seems to me particularly important at this time that a statement should be made about some of the more fundamental aspects of standardization, and I am fortunate in having the chance to discuss this subject before a body which has not only done such high-grade work in this field, but whose members are so well able to get to the heart of any subject that comes before them."
"During the past month life tests of 115 gas-filled lamps have been started, and the tests of 442 vacuum, 112 gas-filled and 12 carbon lamps have been completed by the Bureau of Standards."
"A paper was presented by the writer at the A. I. E. E. Spring Convention, held at Pittsburgh, April 24 to 26, 1923, and was published in the July 1923 issue of the Institute Journal, on the subject; “Selective Relay System of the 66,000 Volt Ring of the Duquesne Light Company.” That paper described in detail the systems of relaying which are used to protect the Duquesne Ring for both short circuit and ground faults. That paper also described the service tests which were made on the ring to test Hie relay protection. Nearly a year has passed since the ring was put into operation with the protection described, and ample opportunity has been given to study the protective schemes under actual service conditions and to prove their practicability. This period of service has included one of the worst, if not the very worst, lightning seasons that has ever been experienced in the history of the Duquesne Light Company. Electrical storms in the Pittsburgh District are unusually severe, both as to intensity and duration, due probably to the geographical location of the district, situated as it is at the junction of two rivers. Storms in this vicinity almost invariably seek the Ohio River Valley and follow it up to the point of junction of the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers, after which they will continue up one of these streams. Storms of several hours duration are not at all uncommon during the height of the lightning season. These have resulted in many insulator flashovers during the past season and the ground relays have given an excellent account of themselves. Several line short circuits have occured and the proper relays functioned correctly in every case. This paper gives a partial log of relay operations on the ring for the first eleven months' service, and it will be noted that every case of trouble on lines has been cleared by the proper relays. A study of all operations leads to certain conclusions as to the proper means of improving the present protection, and these are described in detail. All troubles and difficulties have been frankly described and nothing withheld. It is hoped that other operating companies, which are using, or contemplate using, similar types of protection may derive some value from Die discussion and data presented."
"F. M. Farmer: I just want to mention one thing you may be interested in. Dr. Whitehead has referred to the critical point in the curve between the dielectric losses and voltage. It is proposed to use this characteristic in a practical way in connection with paper-insulated cables. As you all know, a paper-insulated cable is an impregnated laminated structure, and we have always felt that an important element in the satisfactory operation of such a cable is thoroughness of impregnation. The question is, How are we going to tell when the insulation is thoroughly impregnated, that is, free from moisture and voids?"
"James Rurke: With reference to Fig. 14 of the paper showing the offset segments, our company has used offset segments uniformly and continuously for 18 years in segmental punching machines and has not experienced any trouble from shaft currents."
"I. M. Stein (Philadelphia): On the first and second pages of Dr. Silsbee's paper, a figure of 0.3 per cent is given, as being a maximum for the ratio error in “loop-through” types of current transformers. A number of people are using this type of transformer for standards, and accordingly, the figure given is of particular interest."
"G. E. Luke: These two papers on iron losses are very worthy papers in that their purpose is to give the designing engineers a knowledge of the stray losses which occur in a machine. These stray losses are very large in the case of some induction motors and in the case of turbo-generator and other high speed electric machines. The old d-c. machines had solid pole faces; the losses on those were large. The only thing that limited them and kept them down within reasonable value was the fact that they used large air gaps. But as the designs were improved, the air-gap was brought down, particularly with the use of t he commutating pole, and it was necessary to reduce these pole-face losses; this necessitated a laminated structure."
"W. H. Pratt: Volt-ampere and volt-ampere-hour measurements seem to be occasioned almost wholly by the problem of making suitable rates for electrical energy when used at low power factor; that is of making rates that will stimulate the raising of the power factor in such cases. From this viewpoint devices of this kind should be in a measure self-eliminating, for once the power factor fairly approaches unity there is little or no excuse for the added complexity of apparatus above that of the watthour meter."
"H. P. Sparkes (Pittsburgh): In connection with remote load indication we have been watching several different systems. In the Pittsburgh territory, with regard to this movement, it means this: When several big power plants are tied together, the growth of that system will eventually develop info a miniature superpower system. This necessitates some method of the load dispatcher knowing the exact load on each station."
"S. J. Rosch: I would like to ask the authors concerning the limitations of the apparatus and the measurements. For example, can we use it on 22,000 or 33,000 volt cable?"
"J. R. Craighead: In any engineering development which leads to the construction of devices of broadly new characteristics, there are usually two stages. The first stage consists in using available materials to produce the device. These materials are rarely exactly adapted to the purpose which they are to serve. The result of this step is usually a costly, heavy, and sometimes unsatisfactory device."
"Vladimir Kara pet off: For several years previous to his death, Dr. Steinmetz talked from time to time about third-class conductors and pyroelectric effects, and I often asked myself, why this interest in the third-class conductors. I did not see t he point until the appearance of his paper in the “Electrical World” giving the so-called pyroelectric theory of breakdown of insulation. At the same time, but independently from Dr. Steinmetz, Dr. Willy K. Wagner in Germany was working on the same subject. He came to this country on a visit in 1922 and read a paper (printed in the 1922 A. I. A. E. TRANSACTIONS) which for a long time will remain a classic on t he subject. In other words, where Dr. Steinmetz only had time to go into the theory qualitatively, Dr. Wagner also gave us at least a beginning of a mathematical theory of the breakdown of solid dielectric."
"P. L. Alger: I have only one comment to make, and that is to remark that I believe the effect of saturation is quite an important one, especially in the application of the same type of theory to the initial currents of induction motors when they are thrown on the line in starting. Saturation makes the actual reactance of the machine much lower than it is when measured under normal conditions, and consequently, the initial current rush is much higher than might be expected, as in 25-cycle transformers, for example, where the ordinary flux is so high as to make the current rush saturate the iron very materially."
"G. K. Haspel (by letter): In general, only one connector group is required per 100 lines when these lines serve individual or P. B. X. subscribers, but for par-ty-line service it has been the practise to provide as many groups of connectors per 100 lines as there are parties on the party line, that is, for two-party service, t\\VO connector groups per 100 lines are required and for four-party service, four groups."
"H. Fletcher: The mathematical presentation of the design of horns is one of the best that has appeared in recent years. The equations evolved point out not only some of the criteria for good design, but show the serious limitation of the horn for producing natural reproduction. As pointed out by the authors, the applications of the equations are limited because of the assumptions involved in deducing them."
"Bela Gati (by letter): The following remarks apply to cable telegraphy. Some experiments with a-c. telegraphy have been made by the writer which are of interest in considering telegraph speed. These tests were made on long lines and oscillograph records of two of the tests which are shown herewith. In one case direct current was employed and in the other alternating current at 500 cycles per second."
"W. C. Harden: Mr. Best's paper in dealing with the development of telephone-transmission testing apparatus describes three of the common forms of instruments and mentioned the oscillators employed to supply the testing current. It may be of interest to outline briefly some of the more important applications which are being made of these testing devices in maintaining the efficiency of telephone circuits in the Bell System."
"Wm. Fondiller: Mr. Casper has described the ideal transformer, one which would introduce zero loss in a telephone circuit, as represented by an equivalent network having zero impedance series arms and an infinite impedance shunt arm. In any practical transformer the factor which most largely determines the extent to which this ideal can be approached is the magnetic material used for t he core. The ideal core material obviously would be one having infinite permeability and zero losses, as this would make possible 100 per cent coupling, practically zero winding resistance and infinite mutual impedance. Fortunately, however, a magnetic material having characteristics altogether finite in value will permit the construction of quite satisfactory transformers. It may be of interest to indicate what the desirable properties of the magnetic material should be and the extent to which they are attained in materials at present commercially available."
"H. Fletcher: I desire to emphasize the tremendous difference in the time required for obtaining analyses by means of this machine and by the method which has usually been employed in the past. After the electrical connections are made, all you have to do is to press a button and then after waiting five minutes you have a photographic record of the analysis before you are ready for examination. This machine will do in two or three hours what previously required as much as two or three months' work for obtaining the spectrum analyses of such sounds as the output of a horn or organ pipe."
"S. L. Henderson: The papers of Mr. Fechheimer and Mr. Bratt are of primary interest to the designer; particularly to those designers of large machines which require more than the usual air gap entrance for the admission of cooling air. To others, the papers will indicate the amount of research work which is being carried on to enable the manufacturer to build larger and better machines. To the designer the methods for calculating the air circuits may appear complicated and not easy of application. However, when the importance of the proper ventilation system is considered, the designer may well spend considerable time in laying out this part of his design. When it is realized that the construction cannot be changed once the machine is built and that the design of the machine must stand or fall on the ventilation system as laid out, too much time and care cannot be spent in its layout. In the application of the methods put forth in these papers, as in all designs, a first approximation must be made of the relative widths of the different intake and outlet belts and the pressure drops required in the different paths. When once this is done, the designer can readily see how the proportions need to be changed so that the pressures in the various paths will balance up and also so that the proper velocity distributions may be obtained."
"R. F. Franklin: I wish to discuss two points concerning Mr. Jones' paper. One is the criterion of zero box pressure; the other, the mathematical analysis of the brush forces. The condition of zero box pressure which Mr. Jones strives to obtain, will not give satisfactory operation in practise since the slight variations of commutator friction for different points on the commutator will cause the brush to move back and forth in the box and chatter. Practical operation requires a brush angle which will insure the brush always bearing against one side of the box. However, the “box reaction” involved in this condition should not be great enough to prevent free axial movement of the brush in the box. The proper brush angle, therefore, is not the one that will give zero box pressure, but the one that will give a box pressure sufficient to hold the brush in contact with the box for all values of commutator friction and yet not so large as to prevent free axial movement of the brush."
"P. L. Alger: Mr. Boyajian's theory of three-circuit transformers applies to the induction motor as well as to the transformer. His three-circuit transformer is the same in theory as the double-squirrel-cage induction motor, and the same phenomenon of a negative reactance which occurs in his diagrams also occurs in the equivalent circuit of the motor."
"The well-lighted plants and offices of today are proving that good illumination is. very much worth while. Industrial managers, foremen, and executives are beginning to realize that good illumination removes the handicaps which accompany poor lighting, and enables their employees to work more rapidly and more accurately. This increased production of a more accurate nature results from the fact that the' eye is able to function with greater rapidity and comfort under the higher levels of illumination."
"The coming Midwinter Convention to be held in New York, February 9–12, promises many attractive sessions. As usual in a midwinter meeting machine design will be prominently featured and of equal importance will be the sessions on transmission, elec trophy sics, electrical measurements and communication. Electro-chemistry and statistics will be represented by at least one paper each."
"Boston A Talk will be given by Professor J. H. Morecroft. December 9."
"Some definite plans have already been made for the Spring Convention which will be held in St. Louis during April. The subjects of power-station design and applications to industry which are of great interest to the engineers in the Middle West will be covered by capable authors in the technical sessions. In order that advance copies may be prepared in time all authors of papers for this meeting are requested to have their papers at Institute headquarters no later than January 15th."
"On December 1–6 the Third national exposition of power and mechanical engineering will be held at Grand Central Palace, New York City. Every kind of machinery and equipment for the generation and utilization of power and the development of the science of mechanical engineering will be shown."
"Notice has been received, addressed to all the National Committees, from C. le Maistre, General Secretary of the International Electrotechnical Commission, calling attention to the Third international conference on large extra high-tension electric supply systems, which will be held in Paris the latter part of June, 1925. It is hoped that each committee will give the Conference its utmost support. All communications in this connection should be addressed to M. Tribot Laspiere, Secretary, Union des Syndicats de l'Electricity 25, Boulevard Malesherbes, 25 Paris."
"The Southern Virginia Section of the Institute held a most interesting joint meeting with the other engineering societies of the State on October 17th, at Richmond, Va."
"A very successful Section meeting in a territory of widely scattered membership was held at Pottsville, Pa., by the Lehigh Valley Section on November 21. The 270 who attended came from the surrounding neighborhood from distances up to 100 miles. The Lehigh Valley Section rotates its monthly meetings among the several towns in its territory and this is the second annual meeting of the Section held at Pottsville. W. H. Lesser, who had charge of the local arrangements, and J. L. Beaver, Chairman of the Section, deserve much of the credit for this successful gathering."
"The Institute is always glad to come to California, or to any place in this section of the country because we feel that we have done a great deal towards its development and we enjoy partaking in the festivities which go with the development."
"An unusual opportunity was afforded the members of the Chicago Section of the Institute in a joint meeting with the Western Society of Engineers on October 6th to hear an address by Dr. Giuseppe Faccioli, Chief Electrical Engineer of the General Electric Company at Pittsfield, Mass. The address was on the general subject of high-voltage phenomena and Dr. Faccioli explained in a very clear manner the generation and reflection of high-voltage waves with steep fronts and with high frequencies."
"The officers of the American national societies ot civil, mining, mechanical, and electrical engineers arranged a luncheon in honor of Dr. de Ferranti at the Yale Club, in New York, on Thursday, November 6, which was attended by more than one hundred members of these societies."
"Chas. M. Upham, Director of the Highway Research Board has prepared a strong program for its fourth annual meeting to be held at Washington, Dec. 4–5. Among other important topics to be discussed, the question of defaulted highway contracts is looked upon as paramount, and it is believed that while many unforeseen elements may creep in, a more accurate calculation of the work by the contractor himself, might be representative of a saving of considerable time and money. The responsibility of the bonding companies was also considered, and Thomas H. MacDonald, Chief of the Bureau of Public Roads, holds that if these bonding companies were to make a more careful study of their risks before issuing bonds, great advantage might be derived. At the coming meeting, the advisability of a secondary or new and less expensive type of road will also be discussed. This road to be used on less frequented highways of secondary traffic."
"The colors of the 27th Engineers were turned over to the United Engineering Society by the State of New York at a ceremony in the Engineering Societies' building, 29 West 39th St., Friday evening, November 14th. After a few introductory remarks by Walter R. Ingalls, an address was made by Col. 0. B. Perry, commander of the regiment during its service in France, in which he gave interesting details of the organization of the regiment and its unusual achievement in the American Expeditionary Forces. The colors were formally accepted by W. D. L. Saunders of the United Engineering Society and chairman of the Naval Consulting Board, and Col. Ladue, engineering officer of the Second Corps Area, representing General Bullard, spoke on preparedness from an engineering standpoint. Others present at the meeting were members of the Advisory Committee of the Association of the 27th Engineers, presidents and secretaries of the four Founder Societies, trustees of the United Engineering Society and officers of the United States Army."
"Every senior and junior student of the Moore School of Electrical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, has enrolled as a Student member of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Altogether thirty-five students have so enrolled."
"The American Society of Mechanical Engineers is holding its forty-fifth Annual Convention at the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th Street, Dec. 1–4. A most interesting and instructive program has been planned for these four days, and a thoroughly enjoyable and helpful series of meetings is anticipated."
"The American association for the advancement of science aims to promote the advance of all branches of scientific work. I t has a section devoted to Engineering Science, with which the following engineering societies are affiliated, each of them having representation in the Council of the A. A. A. S. and in the section committee: The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, The American Institute of Electrical Engineers, The American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, The American Society of Civil Engineers, The Illuminating Engineering Society, and The American Society for Testing Materials. Many of the other sections of the Association, of which there are now fifteen, represent scientific fields in which engineers are vitally interested."
"At a recent meeting of the Engineering Foundation, Dr. W. V. Bingham, of the Carnegie Institute of Technology of Pittsburgh, was appointed chairman of a national investigation bureau which will be headed by the Personnel Research Federation, with headquarters at the offices of the Foundation, 29 West 39th Street, New York. The ambition of this new bureau of research, as Mr. Flinn emphasized in his remarks, will be the amalgamation of all industrial, educational and commercial interests in a common development for the general good of humanity. Thus it is expected to make it include the collaboration of such interests as the National Research Council, Engineering Foundation, representative vocational and educational factors, physicians, physiologists, psychiatrists, psychologists, university departments active in commercial and administrative training, as well as government departments of Labor, Hygiene, Bureau of Mines and Civil Service commissions."
"ARTHUR A. VAN PELT is now engaged as Chief of Engineering-Automotive Depts. of the Colonial Supply Co., Pittsburgh, Pa."
"HENRY J. CROWLEY, Fellow in the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, died at his home, 4339 Pine Street, Philadelphia, Monday, October 27th, after a long illness. He was born at Unionville, Conn., and upon graduation from High School, served an apprenticeship in mechanical engineering with the Pratt & Whitney Co., Hartford, Conn. His first work thereafter was in the shops of the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad, at Hartford. In 1882 the Schuyler Electric Light Company organized, locating at Hartford, and Mr. Crowley joined them, passing through their various departments and while with them, assisting in many important installations made both in New England and in Pennsylvania west of Pittsburgh. So rapid was his progress that in 1889, one year atter entering their employ, he was made chief of the company's experts, taking charge of their Students' Course at Lynn, Mass. In 1890 he was given the managership of the company's southern offices a t Atlanta, Ga., where he remained until 1893, having charge of railway installations in Atlanta, Macon, Augusta, Savannah, Birmingham, Mobile, Chattanooga and Memphis. From 1893 to 1899 he was engineer and manager for the General Electric Company, in charge of their Railway Department for the Eastern District including Southern New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Eastern Ohio, Delaware, Maryland and North Carolina, whiia there accomplishing many important installations in Philadelphia, Harrisburg, Washington and Richmond. When the American Railways Company, (now the American Electric Power Company) organized in 1899, Mr. Crowley became their general manager, which position he occupied until the time of his death. During the Spanish-American War, he organized a volunteer electrical corps and had charge of the placing of submarine mines, searchlights, and telephone and telegraph systems at Fort Delaware opposite New Castle. Mr. Crowley was also Fellow in The American Society of Mechanical Engineers and member of the Art Club and Electric Club of Philadelphia."
"One of the most interesting biographies which have been written in recent years is the one by John W. Hammond entitled Charles Proteus Steinmetz.” From the beginning of this great engineer's career in Germany, through the time of his coming to America and struggling toward the great achievements which he finally accomplished, to his last peaceful hours in Schenectady, this book abounds in intimate personal events surrounding his life. It is a biography which anyone would be interested in. The “Great Steinmetz” possessed the keenest sense of humor, the kindest heart and that most valuable asset the ambition t o go ahead and overcome all obstacles. Anyone who reads this book will not find a technical account of his career as an electrician, but a most human and interesting portrait of his personal and professional activities."
"All the important industrial countries of the world are making great strides in the development of their products through standardization. National organizations in various countries have been formed and already remarkable savings have been effected through their work. Switzerland, Norway, Poland, France, Japan, Holland, Italy, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Sweden, and Czechoslovakia have in the past few years made great progress along these lines."
"The twenty-one Republics in the P a n American Union have been invited by the Peruvian Government to attend a Conference on Standardization at Lima, Peru beginning December 23rd, 1924."
"The American Society for Testing Materials announces the publication of their new Book of A. S. T. M. Tentative Standards, containing 763 pages and descriptive of 185 Tentative Standards. The publication of these Tentative Standards is to elicit criticism from sources of authority before their final adoption as accepted working Standards."
"The Personnel research federation was established in 1921, under the auspices of Engineering Foundation and National Research Council. It comprises more than twenty societies, research bureaus and universities engaged in the scientific investigation of problems affecting workers and their work."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, I. Y."
"There will be a 1925 edition of the National Electrical Code, the Rules and Regulations for Electric Wiring and Apparatus. This was determined at a meeting of the reorganized Sectional Electrical Committee of the National Fire Protection Association, held in New York City on Friday, November 21, 1924."
"Practical training course in lighting, under the joint auspices of the Illuminating Engineering Society and the Lighting Bureau of the National Electric Light Association, has been established, and, as a result, sixteen men were recently registered with twelve actually completing the course. A most enjoyable instruction and inspection tour was held October 6–26, through places of interest in some of the principal cities, Chicago, South Bend, Ind., Detroit, Cleveland, Washington and New York, by which the students were afforded opportunity for personal observation of the essential points in this field. The necessity of such a course was the outcome of discussion of the Lighting Bureau in 1922, leading to the appointment of a special committee by the chairman of the N. E. L. A. Commercial Section. In 1923–4 arrangements were effected with the Illumination Engineering Society to undertake the conduct of this training course."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library it prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient, not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Index of papers, discussions, reports, etc."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Among the important subjects which the Subcommittee on Oil Circuit Breakers is considering at the present time are the following: (1) Definitions of interrupting rating; (2) Specifications for testing oil circuit breakers; (3) Data on fuse tests, and (4) Tests of air-break disconnecting switches."
"Industrial enterprises have been the last to lake advantage of the developments in automatic station equipment. As an aid to the engineers responsible for these establishments, the author has described the principal types of electric-power transforming equipment to which automatic switching has been applied. The automatic control of synchronous condensers, synchronous motor-generators, synchronous converters, synchronous hydroelectric generators and feeders is treated in such a manner as to furnish industrial engineers with data upon which to base the designs of automatic stations for factories, mills, mines, shops and other kinds of industrial power supply."
"The Code for Electric Meters, approved as an American Standard by the A. E. S. C. in 1922, covers many phases of electric metering practise. It includes specifications for the test and acceptance of types of watthour and demand meters with their accessory devices, such as currentand voltage transformers and shunts, and recommendations on installation, maintenance, and meter testing methods. This code is the basis of American practise in the manufacture of electricity meters, and their use, test, and maintenance by public utility operators. Approval tests of types of meters by public utility commissions are based on the code, and therules for periodic meter testing formulated by state commissions are in accordance with its general provisions."
"WHEN designing a large steam turbine-driven alternator, the volume of air per minute needed to cool the machine may easily be calculated after having estimated the losses and after having decided upon the value of the temperature increase of the air while passing through the machine. The pressure delivered by the generator thereof, (the fan) can be predicted with reasonable accuracy from data to appear in an early paper2. On the other hand the distribution of the air, and the pressure needed to drive it through the various paths are too difficult to predict with our present knowledge of the laws governing the flow of air. In any of the recognized systems of ventilation, there are combinations of various series and multiple paths, and in practically each path there are changes in direction or section, and at each change there is a loss of head. In order to design large generators intelligently, it is important to predict what the quantitative relations are within a reasonable percentage of error. The only feasible way to determine them at present is by means of experiment, and that, too, becomes involved."
"The writer recently presented a series of articles in the Journal in which the composition of porcelain was described, together with the pyrochemical reactions which take place during the firing. It was shown that the firing brought about a combination of certain parts of the silica and alumina first in the amorphous and crypto-crystalline form and later, due to the effect of time and temperature, needle like crystals wereformed. These crystals have been generally understood to be of the composition Al2 O3 Si O2 and hence have been called sillimanite. Sillimanite is a definite natural mineral of the composition Al2 O3. SiO2 and petrographers have repeatedly pronounced the crystals found in porcelain to have the same optical properties as the natural mineral and hence have called it sillimanite."
"In the classical equations of the discharge of a condenser of capacity C into an external circuit of resistance r and inductance L, it is found that the discharge is oscillatory if ${r < \\sqrt{4L \\over C}}$, and is impulsive if ${r > \\sqrt{4L \\over C}}$ As the perfect condenser can never be realized in practise, it is the purpose of this paper to show the effect of the condenser leakage on the discharge wave. The imperfect condenser is represented by the perfect condenser C shunted by the conductance. This condenser discharges into the circuit L and r as above. The mathematical discussion shows that no matter what the relation between r and ${\\sqrt{4L \\over C}}$, there, may always exist some value of g for which the discharge is oscillatory. This is the case when $\\eqalignno{ & \\ \\ (r/L-g/C) < {\\sqrt{4L \\over C}} \\cr & i, e., r < {\\sqrt{4L \\over C}} +{gL \\over C}}$ It is to be borne in mind that the above holds true only when r, L, C, and g are constant. If the resistance is that of a, third class conductor, the discharge will always be oscillatory. An apparent paradox is found in the statement that the current may be more than 90 deg. out of phase with the voltage. A study of the derived equations, rememberingthat the current under consideration is only one of the two components forming the total discharge current ${C {de \\over dt}}$ of the condenser (the leakage current g e being the other), will show that this is true, grams will further confirm the theory."
"IN 1905 there was installed at Snoqualmie Falls, a 9000-h. p. single-runner, single-discharge Francis turbine. The end thrust of this runner gave considerable trouble, since the balancing of the run in a turbine of this type had not been perfected at that time. This experience determined that any future horizontal hydraulic turbine should be of the single-runner, double-discharge type unless a satisfactory solution was found for balancing the runner in a single-discharge turbine."
"THE tests herein described were made possible through the cooperative efforts of the Alabama Power Company's officials, engineers and operators. The writer desires to express his appreciation to them, and to call attention again to the value that properly conducted field tests have in the manufacture of apparatus."
"The thermal conductivity method for gas analysis recently developedby the Bureau of Stanards is described in Technologic Paper, No. 249"
"IN conjunction with the Alabama Power Company, a series of 50 high-voltage oil circuit breaker tests was made during May and June of 1922. The Bessemer substation of the power company was chosen as the location for these tests due to the large power concentrations that were possible on short circuit, the possibility of maintaining system voltage under short circuit to the greatest extent and because it was felt that less interruption to service would occur if tests were made here than elsewhere."
"The problem of measuring kilovolt-amperes power factor has received considerable attention from the rate maker and the electrical engineer during the last few years. This paper describes two late developments in kv-o. demand meters. One meter is of the indicating type and indicates total kw. hours, kw. demand and kv-a. demand. The other meter is of the recording type and gives a record of kw. demand kv-a. demand, kw. hours, and kv-a. hours."
"The Bureau of Standards has recently issued apaper describing a method for measuring resistances as low as 0.01 or even 0.001 ohm by means of the Wheatstone bridge."
"Among the standard assemblies of dry cells adopted by the conference held at the Bureau of Standards, 1921, there were included two batteries for radio use. Since that date the demand for dry batteries for radio purposes has increased very greatly and the conditions of use have been considerably changed. It appears desirable, consequently, to revise the specifications for the performance of such batteries. In anticipation of another conference to consider this problem the Bureau and a number of battery manufacturers have been carrying out extensive tests in order to determine the type of performance tests to be established and proper numerical values for these requirements. The matter has also been taken up by a committee of the American Electrochemical Society on which the Bureau is represented. It is planned to call a conference of dry cell manufacturers and others interested to meet at the Bureau within the next few months."
"This paper describes an improved thermo-voltmeter, which may be used at all frequencies up to and including 1,000,000 cycles. This meter retains the usual high sensitivity of thermovoltmeters so that it requires a very small current — for full scale deflection about 2 milliamperes. At present it is made in ranges from 1 to 20 volts inclusive. Higher voltage ranges can be made but probably at the expense of lowering somewhat the upper limit of frequency at which the instrument is still accurate."
"J. A. Koontz: I think there is one point that Mr. Benham has mentioned which should be emphasized, viz., that if the loading on the dead end insulator is kept within reason, there is no greater depreciation on the dead end insulator than on insulators in suspension. A great many engineers feel that insulators at the dead end points are quite a hazard. In fact on the lines in question all the early type insulators used at the dead end positions had to be removed, but when they were replaced by later designed units, the trouble ceased, as shown by the curves, and from tests, we find no more failure in the dead end position than when the insulators are used in suspension. With this in view, we feel that from a depreciation standpoint, we do not have to worrry about the dead end insulators, so long as the mechanical loads are not excessive."
"F. G. Baum: Our vision of the future transmission system of the United States is a 220,000 volt system, at least for most of the country, and for most of the time that we will be here."
"L. F. Blume: The subject of the paper by Messrs. Mini, Moore and Wilkins involves many interesting problems because the transformer connection to which the authors mostly refer is a mongrel which has inherited its pecularities from three distinct sources. For, in this one transformer connection are combined the various aspects of (a) an auto transformer, (b), the Y connection, and (c) the 3-winding transformer. I will pointout briefly for purposes of emphasis, a few of the salient characteristics of only one of them, namely, the 3-winding transformer."
"E. A. Smith: It would be quite interesting if Mr. Copley would givesome more information on These 220,000-volt circuit breakers, such as the necessary data on the rupturing capacity, size of tanks, amount of oil, the grade and the insulating factors, what sort of contacts used and the depth of contacts under the oil"
"L. M. Klauber: There are two points upon which I should like to comment from the standpoint of a smaller company engaged in interconnectionwith a larger."
"The variations in the magnetic properties of iron and iron-alloys, even of supposedly constant composition, have been puzzling to the users and investigators of ferro-magnetic materials ever since the introduction of such materials for electrical apparatus. The author started to investigate this problem over ten years ago at the University of Illinois, and has continued it at the Westinghouse Research Laboratory since 1916, concentrating on iron and iron-silicon alloys. While the results obtained do not eliminate 100 per cent of the difficulties, they go a long way in that direction. It has been found that carbon is largely responsible for the variations, because of the fact that amounts so small as previously to be regarded as traces — less than 0.01 per cent — remain dissolved in the iron in the solid state, even after slow cooling, and have a tremendous influence on the magnetic properties. Of much less effect is carbon precipitated as pearlite, free cementite and graphite, the effect being in the order named. If the effect of dissolved carbon be represented by 100, the effect of carbon as pearlite is 16.5, of carbon as Fe3 C 2.25, and of carbon as graphite nearly nil. The form assumed by carbon — aside from the carbon in solution — depends largely on the silicon content, and can best be explained by referring to Fig. 9. Besides carbon, it has been found that the grain size has a large and definite influence on the magnetic properties, due to the accompanying inter crystalline amorphous cement that may be regarded as an impurity similar to other inter crystalline impurities. The detrimental effect of sulphur, phosphorous and manganese on pure iron is in the order named, while phosphorous has a beneficial effect on high silicon alloys. The evidence obtained is to the effect that the increased reluctivity, coercive force, or hysteresis loss, due to carbon and other impurities that are precipitated combined with iron — including in this class the inter-crystalline cement — is caused by the inherent corresponding property of these precipitated impurities. Regarding the tremendous effect of carbon in solution, it is suggested that this is due to the entering of carbon into the more or less stable equilibrium arrangement of the ferro-magnetic structure, upsetting this equilibrium arrangement."
"An interesting feature of the recent Chicago Motor Show was an exhibit showing how headlights ought to be adjusted. This booth was arrangedby the Bureau of Standards in cooperation with the Society of Automotive Engineers and the Chicago Motor Club. An automatic projection machine was employed to give further instruction. Pamphlets prepared by the Bureauand printed by the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce were likewisedistributed."
"During the summer of 1921 the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies through a subcommittee of its Lamp Committee engaged in a survey of residence service conditions in certain cities in which member companies of that Association operate."
"In 1809 Sir Humphrey Davy demonstrated before the Royal Society, London, that an arc light could be produced by touching two sticks of carbon connected to a 2000-cell electric battery. It is estimated that it cost six dollars a minute to operate this forerunner of modern electric illumination."
"Excellent papers and enjoyable entertainment are assured those who attend the Annual Convention at Edgewater Beach, Chicago, June 23–27. Among the subjects treated in the papers are distribution, cables, automatic stations, reactors, communication, electrophysics, street lighting and electrical machinery. There will also be annual reports by the Technical Committees and several Standards Sub-committees as well as addresses on Standards by well-known speakers. The Section delegates will hold a meeting all day on Monday."
"Interesting sessions and the charm of California are the forces which will draw many members of the Institute to the Fall meeting at Pasadena. October 13 to 17. To the members in the eastern part of the countrythe proposed excursion trip to the Coast with stops at many noted placeswill give also an additional incentive to attend. (See the JOURNAL for April, page 386.)"
"A convention of a new type will be held under the auspices of the Northeastern District at Worcester, Mass., on June 5 and 6. Three technical sessions and several special features including an address by President H. J. Ryan have been scheduled for this meeting. All members of the Institute who can attend the meeting are cordially invited."
"The annual business meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, Friday evening, May 16, 1924 at 8:30 o'clock. The results of the annual election of Institute officers will be announced and the report of the Boardof Directors for the year ending April 30, will be presented."
"The Atmosphere as a Factor in Electrical Engineering, by President Harris J. Ryan. This meeting will be combined with the Annual Business Meeting of the Institute. The announcement of the election of officers ofthe national body will also be made and it is expected the President — Elect will say a few words. May 16."
"The New York Section of the I. E. S. will hold its monthly meeting at the Engineering Societies Bldg., New York City, on Thursday. May 8th, at 8.15 p.m. All members of the Institute are cordially invited to attend."
"The American Society of Mechanical Engineers has planned a most interesting program for its meeting in Cleveland, May 26–29. The great importance of industrial mobilization as insurance against war will be made the keynote of a dinner meeting on May 28th."
"The Spring Convention held in Birmingham, Ala., April 7 to 11 was the first convention of the A. I. E. E. held in the far South and was highly successful in attracting a large delegation of visiting engineers from all parts of the country. Of the total attendance of approximately 350 members and guests, nearly 200 represented various States from New England to California. Prom both a technical and a social point of view, the Convention was very successful, and the local committee under the energetic and efficient leadership of Mr. W. E. Mitchell is to be congratulated upon the orderly functioning and satisfactory results of its well-laid plans. The weather during the last two days of the convention was the only discordant element in evidence. Rain disorganized the “old fashioned Southern barbecue” for which extensive preparations had been made for Wednesday evening, but a program of typical Southern singing by negro singers was substituted for it and was greatly enjoyed by all present."
"Dr. C. O. Mailloux, Honorary President ot the I. E. C, and who was also Honorary President of the recent International Conference on High-Tension Electrical Transmission Systems, held in Paris, has received a communication from the French Association of Producers and Distributors of Electric Energy (“Syndicat Professionnel des Producteurs et Distributeurs d'Energie Electrique”), which invites attendance from America at a Convention of the producers and distributors of electrical energy, to beheld in Paris, next July, probably after the close of the World Power Conference. This Convention"
"Dr. Ambrose Swasey of Cleveland, O., inventor, manufacturer, philanthropist and dean of the American engineering profession was presented with the John Fritz gold medal, one of the highest distinctions in the world of engineering. The ceremonies took place on the evening of April 23 in the Engineering Societies Build 29 West 39th Street, New York, in the presence of distinguished engineers, scientists and educators from all over the country."
"A medal of honor called the “Mascart Medal” has been created by the Societe Francaise des Electriciens to be awarded every three years to ascientist or engineer distinguished for services in the theory and application of electricity. The first presentation of the Medal which was madein February of this year was to Andre Blondel in recognition of his remarkable achievements in electricity and photometry."
"The Patent Office is in great need of additional assistance. In recognition of this fact Congress has passed legislation permitting the employment of 100 additional men for a period of two years. The temporary feature of this work should not deter anyone as the national turnover would more than provide for absorption of these additional men."
"The U. S. Civil Service Commission has announced open competitive examinations for engineers and associate engineers, to fill vacancies inthe Bureau of Standards, Department of Commerce. The work includes many branches of physics, chemistry, engineering and technology, and offers valuable experience in connection with original investigations in some field of the Bureau's work."
"The governing bodies of Columbia University have placed at the disposal of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers each year a scholarship in Electrical Engineering in the School of Mines, Engineering and Chemistry of Columbia University. The scholarship pays $350 toward the annual tuition fees which vary from $340 to $360, according to the details of the course selected. Reappointment of the student to the scholarship for the completion of his course is conditioned upon the maintenance of a good standing in his work."
"The American Mathematical Society, an incorporated national organization, has issued an appeal for an endowment of at least $100,000 to continue its scientific activity, as follows:"
"The EMF Electrical Year Book for 1924, which has just been received, contains several innovations. Chief among these is a geographic section, which gives branch offices, special agents and local or district jobbers of the advertisers. These are arranged by states and cities."
"A whole-hearted manner of doing things is a characteristic of the Lehigh Valley Section which was emphasized by the meeting held on April 11 and 12 at Wilkes-Barre, Pa. This Section convention started with dinner on Friday evening, which was followed by three interesting papersand on Saturday inspection trips were made to two manufacturing plants. The meeting was one of the most enthusiastic ever held by this Section."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Chief among the tasks of the Council for the year will be the prosecution of a country-wide campaign to conserve the forest reserves of the nation. It plans to work with federal, state and other agencies in devising plans to overcome the dwindling of the nation's forests."
"The A. E. C. has placed before President Coolidge a resolution adopted by its Administrative Board favoring the Temple measure, which provides for the complete topographic mapping of the United States."
"A committee has been appointed by the A. E. C. to study the Muscle Shoals situation for the U. S. Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forrestry"
"BERNHARD F. J. DAY has joined the staff of A. E. Fitkin & Co., 209 Van Nuys Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif."
"Charles Wirt, an inventor of many well-known electric lighting appliances, died on April 13th at his home in Philadelphia, at the age of sixty-six."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library ofengineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library trill gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking forinformation, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that theinvestigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is openfrom 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A convention which made Institute history was held in Worcester, Mass., early in June. This was the first convention held by a geographical district of the Institute. Much credit must be given to the officers and sections of the district, District No. 1, for their courage in undertaking such a meeting with no precedent for guidance, and they are to be complimented also on the excellent way in which the meeting was planned and conducted. A report of the meeting is given on another page of this issue."
"This paper deals with the development of a constant speed a-c. motor for application to single-phase current. A description is given of the derivation of this new type of motor from the plain repulsion motor. The novel feature lies in the armature which consists of a combination of three elements, namely: a commutated winding, a squirrel cage of high reactance, and a commutating device consisting of shielding metal strips. It is shown that this motor in starting and acceleration possesses the characteristics of a series motor and when up to speed has the characteristics of a shunt motor. The changing over from the series to the shunt type is accomplished without the use of any automatic device, this change taking place due to the inherent qualities of the motor. An explanation is given of the high power-factor possessed by this motor and also an elementary theory of commutation, which has proved to be as good as that in a d-c. motor with commutating poles."
"The purpose of this paper is to state briefly the use of voltage regulators and reactors in transmission and distribution systems and to mention operating requirements which might be best met by the use of saturated-core type regulators or reactors. The saturated-core type regulator and reactor consists of an iron core with two sets of coils. One set of coils is connected to a d-c. circuit and the other set to an a-c. circuit. The theory, design and construction of the saturated-core type regulator and reactor is discussed in A. Boyajian's paper."
"The development of a distribution system is largely determined by the load density and Us rate of change. The following is a discussion of these factors and their influence on the Chicago distribution system: The d-c. system which supplies the central part of the city includes an area of about one sq. mi. in which the load is expected to reach 200,000 kw. in 20 years. This would economically require substation supply of about 10 substations of 25,000 kw. each. Surrounding the small d-c. area the general light and power supply over the city is by means of 60-cycle, 4,000-volt circuits, except for the larger industrial loads which are supplied from 12,000-volt lines. The load density of the greater part of the 4,000-volt system is about 4,000 kv-a. per square mile, and the economical supply would be from 7,000 kv-a. remote controlled substations spaced about 1.3 miles. The maximum density of load on this system is 10,000 kv-a. which would require 10,000-kv-a. substations. Calculations indicate that, with increasing load densities, the economy of this intermediate distribution voltage disappears, and in the ultimate development higher distribution voltages are necessary."
"The purpose of the paper is to present for consideration a new method of interconnecting sources of power and load centers in a large district with a well developed and well distributed load. The central idea is the superposition of a high tension network of single-circuit lines over the whole district for the purpose of supplying a medium in which current may flow in any general direction as changing conditions may dictate. This is similar to the underground network of the Edison Companies in the large cities. With a such a layout available, power anywhere in the district may be fed into the network and it may be taken out at any other point without serious loss of energy. The network is connected directly to load centers as well as to existing generating centers and thus greatly assists the present distribution lines distributing power and also stabilizes the potential at each load center reached. The charging current of the network may largely neutralize the lagging component of the load with favorable design. A concrete illustrative network is worked out in considerable detail, covering the present load with an equal amount of new future load in the interconnected systems of Alabama, the. Carolinas, Georgia and Tennessee, with a branch to the Appalachian Power Company in Virginia. The result shows a very effective, efficient and low cost system for this territory. The plan is applicable to other districts as well. Details are given as to the layout taken and the operating characteristics of the system."
"ELECTRICALLY driven mine hoists have at last come into their own. For many years manufacturers labored with prospective buyers with little results. Long and laborious calculations were made, ratings determined with great accuracy, detailed specifications drawn and presented to the customer. He usually purchased a steam hoist. The good judgment of such a decision could hardly be questioned. The steam hoists had given good and dependable service for many years. The electric hoist was a new and untried device. Power lines were not as reliable as they are today. The mine shaft is the neck of the bottle and once this becomes plugged from any cause whatsoever, the output stops and the usual trouble ensues. Operators felt they had trouble enough with most shafts and would not consider a propositon, which to them seemed to have great possibilities for trouble, the remedying of which was beyond their control."
"Review of the Subject — The engineer in applying automatic substations to an existing electrified traction property is often forced to make the most of a poorly designed or antiquated distribution system. By comparison, the problem of designing the distribution system for the electrification of a steam railroad is often very simple. The choice of proper converting equipment is perhaps not so easily made. The author brings attention to a number of important points which should be given careful consideration by those contemplating electrification."
"Many transformers are now being designed for service with one end of the high-voltage winding solidly grounded. These transformers require an over potential test by induced voltage of either 2.73 or 8.46 times their normal line voltage above ground plus 1000 volts. These tests must be made at more than normal frequency, to avoid too high a flux density in the core, and also to reduce the power required for excitation. It has long been known that the breakdown voltage of solid materials was affected by the length of time of application of voltage. Likewise the frequency of the applied voltage is shown to affect the breakdown voltage for solid insulations, increase in the frequency resulting in a decreased breakdown voltage. The voltage required for creepage failure is shown to be relatively unaffected by frequency. From the results of the tests made it is concluded that induced voltage tests on transformers with graded insulation at higher than normal frequencies should not have the test voltage reduced, but should have the duration of the test shortened to make the severity of the test comparable to the test at 60 cycles on normally insulated transformers."
"The present trend to interconnection and the installation of large capacity stations, with the changing character of city load, make relief of the operating crew of a system of the greatest importance. This can best be done by the use of automatically controlled substations in the various types of service. Equipment for each class of service is in successful operation showing great dependability and any particular problem of the operating companies can be attached, keeping in mind certain fundamentals of design, construction and application."
"The paper takes up the physical features having deciding influence on design and construction of hydroelectric plants. It describes the mountain system of the region, the precipitation, the runoff, the streams suitable for power development, and the major characteristics of the development; then takes up a little more in detail the structural features, such as reservoirs and diversion dams, the conduit system, surge tanks and forebays, pressure pipes, power houses and equipment. The choice of impulse and reaction turbines is discussed and some performance curves given; this followed by conditions imposed upon modern plants by the transmission line; switch gear is briefly discussed followed by a resume on transmission lines and their control. Finally, some results which have been obtained are related, and the paper ends up with the hope that hydroelectric developments and distribution will continue as in the past, rather than have it undertaken by competing municipalities, which by ambitious advertising of cheap power (tax free) would endeavor to attract industries and people to their crowded areas. It is felt that the hydroelectric power industry on the Pacific Coast has distributed the benefits of cheap electricity to the small and large community alike, tending to more stable development of the entire region."
"1. An experimental method is presented of checking the magnitude of flux pulsations in the teeth of rotating machines where both members are slotted. The method consists in using metallic electrodes shaped like the teeth of a machine and an electrolyte or mercury to represent the air. Voltage is applied between the two members and the current through the tooth under consideration is measured. The magnitude of this current under different conditions is proportional to the magnitude of the flux which would flow under the analogous magnetic conditions. 2. The test results are compared with the pulsation amplitudes as calculated by two methods. The test results are in general slightly lower than the calculated but the agreement is fairly good. 3. It is believed that either of the above-mentioned methods can be used to calculate tooth pulsations without serious errors where saturation effects are not appreciable. These methods should be specially useful in determining which of two or more designs would be subject to the lesser pulsation losses. 4. The effect of saturation in the iron is determined experimentally by making the ratio of the mercury to the electrode resistance small. This ratio corresponds to the magnetic permeability. The effect of the tooth resistance on the amplitude of the pulsation is calculated by assuming three resistances in series, namely, the stator and rotor tooth resistances and the air gap resistance. The calculated and test values check reasonably well. 5. It is shown that the effect of saturation on pulsation amplitude for actual machines can not be calculated by adding directly the air gap and tooth reluctances due to the fact that the permeability of iron is not constant. In order to actually calculate the effect of saturation, it is necessary either to plot portions of the magnetization curve or to make use as we do of the incremental permeability values. 6. The method described of allowing for saturation is too complicated for ordinary design calculations but is useful in giving a clearer picture of just what these effects are and could be successfully used for special cases where the extra labor involved was warranted. 7. These methods do not apply when short-circuited windings are present in the slots. It is hoped at a later date to consider this aspect of the problem. 8. We believe it is possible by the use of the outlined methods below to calculate simple, reasonably reliable correction curves for saturation effects which may be used both for the case of uniform mean flux and for a sine distribution of the mean flux."
"I HAVE been asked to tell you some of the problems that today confront the railroad operating officer. There are many but in my opinion there is one that transcends all others in importance, and I propose to confine my remarks to a few of its manifestations."
"I can tell you in words of one syllable our experience on the Norfolk and Western. Our electrification problem is rather different from the problem of most of the other lines. When we first undertook electrification we were faced with the problem of handling about nine hundred cars in each direction over very heavy grades, and in very heavy tonnage, and our first thought was to investigate electrification merely from a pusher standpoint; that is, we would bring the tonnage trains up and use an electric pusher over the grade."
"The discussors (in order) are: N.W. Storer; N.D. Ballantine; J.E. Crawford; Mr. Coleman; Mr. Brenner; A.H. Babcock; W.S. Murray; and William Elmer."
"The southern portion of the Pacific Coast is comparatively free from lightning disturbances and the number of such disturbances, as compared with the number of lightning storms in other sections of the United States, is quite small. However, the expansion of the high voltage transmission network with the installation of many additional substations and further expansion of distribution systems has made necessary the use of some form of protection against transient high voltages throughout the system of the Southern California Edison Company."
"To the man who sees in the promotion of good lighting an opportunity for service, this article is nothing short of an inspiration; to him who is satisfied to supply merely what his customer asks for, regardless of its adequacy, it sounds a warning. The following article formed the editorial feature of Electrical World for September 29th, 1923, and is printed by permission."
"The gasoline filling and service station has come forth from the garage where it formerly led a relatively quiet and obscure existence, boldly to take its stand in the high places alike of business thoroughfare and residental street."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"The Engineering Societies Library has just compiled a bibliography (S 3921) on \"Ventilation and Temperature Rise in Electrical Machines,\" which containes 73 references from the most important electrical periodicals for the last 10 years, with a few references between 1901 and 1913. This bibliography is for general sale at US$15 a copy."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, NY. All members are urged to notify the Institute headquarters promptly of any change in mailing or business address, thus relieving the members of needless annoyance and also assuring the prompt delivery of Institute mail, the accuracy of our mailing records, and the elimination of unnecessary expense for postage and clerical work."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient, not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Papers valuable especially from the operating standpoint, dealing with the problems of both power companies and industrial plants, will be the main attraction of the coming convention in Birmingham, April 7–11. In addition some very enjoyable trips and entertainments have been planned."
"A new method for measuring the rate of sulphation of storage battery plates was recently devised al the Bureau of Standards by Vinal and Ritchie (Technologic Paper 225). This consisted of periodic weighings of plates suspended in electrolyte. The present paper is an extension of this work. Detrimental impurities when present in the solution may (1) corrode the plate, (2) accelerate the formation of lead sulphate, or (3) be deposited in the pores of the plate. In any case, the weight of the plate changes and this affords the most sensitive and exact means which we have for estimating the extent and nature of the reaction. A physical meaning can be given to the rather vague term “local action.” It was found that electrolyte, containing only one part of platinum in ten million parts of the solution, increased the local action at the negative plates by 50 per cent. Copper, like platinum, deposits on the negative plates, but produces less effect. Iron is of unusual interest because it greatly accelerates the formation of lead sulphate at the negative plate. The reaction of the positive plates is slower, which mitigates its detrimental effects to some extent. Manganese is particularly destructive to the positive plates. The results of our experiments indicate that the reactions of manganese compounds in the battery are somewhat different from the previously accepted theories. Manganese in the form of manganese dioxide is deposited on the positive plates covering the active material, closing the pores and causing a part of the charging current to be wasted. The work is being extended to include the effect of other impurities."
"The engineering school of the Akron, Ohio, University, conducts evening classes in technical subjects which are attended regularly by students who are employed during t h e day time."
"In introduction, the history of human language is outlined and the manner of speech production is briefly described with special reference to English. Following this is a summary treatment of available data on the subject of speech and hearing. Much of this is the result of investigations carried out during the last two or three years in the Research Laboratories of the Bell System at New York. Human speech employs frequencies from a little below 100 cycles per second to above 6000 cycles, a range of about six octaves. The ear can perceive sound waves ranging in pressure amplitude from less than 0.001 of a dyne to over 1000 dynes and in frequency of vibration from about 20 cycles per second to about 20,000, a range at about ten octaves. The intensities and frequencies used most in conversation are those located in the central part of the area of audition. The energy of speech is carried largely by frequencies below 1000, but the characteristics which make it intelligible, largely by frequencies above 1000. Under quiet conditions good understanding is possible with undistorted speech having an intensity anywhere from one hundred times greater, to a million times less than that at exit from the mouth. On the whole the sounds, th, f, s, and v are hardest to heat correctly and they account for over half the mistakes made in interpretation. Failure to perceive them correctly is principally due to their very weak energy although it is also to be noted that they have important components of very high frequency."
"A method of determining the power limit of a transmission system taking into account the characteristics of the synchronous condensers and load in conjunction with those of the transmission line is described. The power limit of a transmission system divided into two sections by an intermediate synchronous condenser station is determined and compared that of the same system without the condenser station at the mid-point. The theory was checked by shop tests on in artificial transmission system of sufficient capacity so that accurate results could be obtained. Tests were also made on voltage stability, hunting and the effect of short circuits causing the system to pull out of synchronism."
"Japan will soon have t h e longest over-water electric transmission line in the world a 100,000-volt line between the island of Shikoku and the. mainland, twenty-three miles away. Intervening islands will carry the towers."
"From past experience, in connection with generator winding breakdowns, we have come to the conclusion that many of these breakdowns have been due to moisture, or water getting into the machines, causing concentration of corona on t h e winding where t h e drops of water werelocated."
"During January the Rubber Section of the Bureau of Standards carried out some work on the effect of variations in vulcanization on the electrical properties of rubber insulating materials for cables. A number specimens of the compound, smoked sheets, 92 percent and sulphur 8 per cent, were prepared for the purpose of determining the effect on the electrical properties of conducting vulcanizing at different temperatures and for different lengths of time. The results indicate that for a givenstate of cure the electrical properties are practically independent of the means by which that cure was effected, whether by vulcanizing for a long time at a low temperature or a shorter time at a high temperature."
"Back of every safety program there stands the industry itself with its precedents, prejudices and traditions. Coal mining, being an old established industry, naturally had many fixed traditions long before electricity and electrical equipment, comparatively new forces, made their appearance."
"The motorship Seekonk recently returned to New York, completing hermaiden voyage through the Panama Canal to Seattle and return, has given further demonstration of the successful operation of electrical auxiliaries."
"The characteristics of three-circuit transformers, the literature of which is very meager, is discussed here in considerable detail. The features of the scheme of treatment are as follows: 1. The scope and general aspects of the problems of three-circuit transformers are reviewed. 2. Some peculiar phenomena of considerable theoretical interest are cited. 3. An electrical network equivalent to the magnetically interlinked circuits of a three-circuit transformer is developed, useful in visualizing the problem and in predicting by inspection a number of its characteristics. 4. Two physical interpretations of the equivalent network are given to assist the understanding of its principle and its applications. 5. The case of auto transformers interconnecting three circuits is interpreted so that the formulas developed for three-circuit transformers become universally applicable regardless of the presence or absence of metallic interconnection among the three circuits inside the case. 6. Formulas are developed for the calculation of regulation with various loads in the different windings. 7. Formulas are developed for the division of load between two primary circuits, or two secondary circuits in parallel. 8. Formulas are developed for the equivalent effective impedance for short circuits. 9. The behaviour of a three-circuit transformer operating in parallel with a two-circuit transformer is analyzed so as to determine the flow or distribution of load kv-a. in the network. 10. The problem of unsymmetrical loads, particularly that of single-phase line-to-neutral short circuits on a polyphase system are discussed in an appendix, with a simplified method of solution, deriving formulas for some representative cases. When the transformer is interconnecting two polyphase generating systems, the division of single-phase line-to-neutral loads and short circuits between the two systems is considered and solved by the same method and formulas. 11. The theory of three-circuit transformers is extended to four circuits in another appendix illustrated by an example, and is then generalized to n-circuit transformers. 12. For convenient reference, the more important formulas and symbols are collected in another appendix."
"Use of radiotelephony is increasing steadily in Great Britain, where at present there are about 580,000 licensed “listeners in.” A large majority of these people own crystal sets, which can be used with good results since broadcasting stations are located in the populous districts throughout the country. There is, however, a good demand for tube sets."
"FOR the past 15 years or more there have occured recurrently in technical literature articles giving methods of checking the connections of three-phase wattmeters. In February 1916 Prof. W. B. Kouwenhoven presented a long and detailed paper to the American Institute on the subject. (Vol. 35, Part I, page 183). Practically all these writings point out the frequency with which misconnections occur and their difficulty of detection. In fact this constant recurrence of the subject itself vouches for its importance but it might seem, particularly after Prof. Kouwenhoven's treatment, that another discussion of the subject would be a little superfluous. The writer feels, however, that this is not the case for the reason that all of the existing discussions of the subject which have come to his notice are either incomplete or contain serious errors."
"J. S. Thompson: I would like to have you consider what we believe is a step in the right direction in regard to oil circuit breakers. Our factory has developed an oil circuit breaker with six breaks per pole, which is not a new idea at all. We have done it in a novel way in that we have not increased the number of pieces of insulation between the conductors and the ground, but have simply introduced an auxiliary insulation between breaks. This auxiliary insulation is far from sufficient to maintain itself against the line's voltage, but it is only subjected to an impressed voltage at the instant during which the breaker is between theclosed and the open position; it is of baklite and relatively small andfailure of this auxiliary insulation simply would cut out certain of thebreaks in the circuit. We have such an installation on a 60,000-volt line. This breaker after breaking thirteen short circuits produced by the test of various fuses which failed to open the circuit, was then tested on direct dead short circuit. After having been tested once with no evidence of any form of distress, the engineers took the bold step of putting this breaker on the loaded system of the Pacific Gas & Electric Company which was at that time being contributed to by Pit River, Drum Electra, Oakland and San Francisco. The breaker was subjected to short-circuit operations with this power concentrated on it (though I will have to say that the power was brought to this distributing point by a 110-kv. systemand transformed to 66-kv.), so you will see that the breaker was put to a thorough test. It operated at 2000 amperes, which immediately dropped to 1350 or 1400. A Westinghouse relay closed the circuit in about five cycles and then there were consumed ten cycles for the mechanical operation of the tripping coil, and the movement of the blade out of contact, and nine cycles of diminishing amperes while the arc was being drawn thenfive cycles between the rupturing of the arc and the end of the travel of the oil circuit breaker."
"Some months ago the Revolutionary Government forbade by legal decree the operating of private wireless apparatus in Greece. However, the Ministers of Finance and Marine of the present Government, according to unofficial advices, have now prepared a bill to be submitted to the National Assembly for ratification, by which the operation of private radio sets belonging to Greek individuals will be permitted under certain restrictions and subject to the payment of a license tax."
"AT the close of the 19th century a notable event occurred at Niagara Falls, — the development of a plant for the utilization electrically of Niagara power. Then, as now, Niagara Falls was recognized as the finest water power in the world, a cataract of great height, fed from the five Great Lakes, constituting a water storage without a rival. It was in keeping with the situation that the first plant was developed with mammoth units, much larger than had been dreamed of up to that time. They were 5000 horse power each, or, translated into electrical terms, 3750 kw., eleven of these units under one roof."
"Among the various plans to substitute electricity for coal in Austria, since Austria is dependent on foreign sources for three-fourths of its coal supply, the development of water power for the electrification of railways is important. The coal needed for all steam-operated railwaysin Austria is estimated at 4,700,000 metric tons per year (when operating at full capacity) and this amounts to about one-fourth of the total coal requirements of the country. Over one-half of the amount of coal consumed by the railways can be saved by the utilization of electric power, much of which is yet to be developed."
"In the body of the paper by Fortescue and Wagner, presented at the recent Midwinter Convention, and in the companion papers by Evans and Bergvall, E. B. Shand, and Evans and Sels the conditions of stability are discussed by means of graphs. This method has been chosen as that best fitted for presenting these important factors in the problem of power transmission before the engineering public in the form best adapted for practical application."
"While the use of power lines as the transmission medium for telephone currents is a comparatively recent development, the fundamental problems involved and the methods employed do not differ essentially from the somewhat older arts of multiplex or carrier telephony over telephone lines, and radio telephony. The differences lie chiefly in the range of carrier frequencies which is best adapted to each scheme, and the means which are employed to connect the telephone equipment to the transmission medium."
"Notwithstanding the wonderful lighting progress visible on every hand, the Great American Home is still much underlighted. Just as has always been the case, general applications of good lighting lag behind the possibilities. Only one third of our homes are wired for electricity and these are less t h a n half lighted. It is the duty of the lighting interests to raise the average to a conservative standard of convenience, comfort, and charm compatible with present possibilities. A leading illuminating engineer estimates that the average wired home needs 250 per centmore convenience outlets, 400 per cent more portable lamps, 250 per centmore wall brackets, 120 per cent more wattage of lamps, and 100 per cent more energy for lighting."
"In an article on Engineering Literature in the February issue of the JOURNAL Mr. Donald McNicol says: “As time goes on our store of literature increases. The task of t h e student who searches through the literatureof a subject becomes increasingly prolonged. Should the files increase proportionately in the next fifty years, a situation might exist which would be serious.” And further on: “From year to year the product of the will to write has increased. There is brought to the mill more grist thancan be accommodated in periodicals conducted on an economical footing.”"
"When the first really satisfactory automobile signal was brought out two or three years ago, and a new and thriving business created almostovernight, it did not mean that there had been no need for such signals in the past that highways had suddenly become so cluttered with automobiles that signals found themselves removed from the luxury to the necessity class. Nor was it because motorists suddenly awakened to the fact that signals on their cars added appreciably to their appearance. It meant simply that rear-end collisions were dreaded by the motorist because of the alarming frequency with which they were occurring, particularly under crowded traffic conditions. Motorists were glad to welcome a device which would really minimize this danger, one which did not take their attention unduly from the work at hand just when it should be concentrated most on it, and at the same time was really effective and attracted attention from drivers behind in full sunlight as well as at night."
"Arrangements for the Spring Convention at Birmingham as given in the March JOURNAL have been fully matured and indications point to a very interesting and instructive meeting. The general details of the meeting have already been published and need not be repeated here, but as some changes and rearrangement of the program have been made the final programof the technical sessions is given herewith :"
"A wide variety of technical features and an especially entertaining list of social sports events are on the program for the Annual Convention at Edgewater Beach, near Chicago, June 23–27. Also an entire day will be devoted to the conference of the Section delegates. Among the technical features there will be papers on distribution, transmission, cables, reactors, automatic substations, machinery, communication, electrophysics and street lighting. A special meeting will deal with the subject of standardization from several standpoints and on one morning the Technical Committees will report on the year's progress."
"A most delightful suggestion has come from some of the older members of the Institute in connection with the convention at Pasadena in October. This suggestion is that probably a large number of the pioneers of the Institute and other prominent engineers can make the trip to the Coast in a body and hold a reunion, it might be called, at the convention. It is proposed that the members from the East travel together in aspecial train or special cars, stopping briefly at interesting points."
"The Annual Business Meeting of the Institute will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, Friday evening, May 16, 1924. The results of the annual election of Institute officers will be announcedand the report of the Board of Directors for the year ending April 30 will be presented."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Spring Meeting of the A. S. M. E. will be held in Cleveland, May 26–29, 1924. Some of the subjects to be discussed are Power Problemsin the Steel Industry, Interchangeable Manufacture, Windmill and Fan Design, and Materials Handling in Industry. Joint sessions will be held with both the American Society for Testing Materials and the American Society of Refrigerating Engineers."
"The Spring Meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers, to be held in Atlanta, Ga. April 9–12, promises to be a most interesting andinstructive one"
"The spring meeting of the American Electrochemical Society will be held in Philadelphia, April 24, 25 and 26. The technical meetingwill be devoted to a symposium on Organic Electrochemistry. Dr. C. J. Thatcher, of New York City, acting as chairman; and to a symposium OD the subject: “Recent Progress in Electrodeposition” when Mr. S. Skowronski, Research Chemist of the Raritan Copper Co., will be chairman."
"The regular meeting of the American Physical Society will be held in Washington at the Bureau of Standards, April 25–26, 1924. The first session will begin at 10 o'clock Friday morning and in the evening then will be an informal dinner, commemorating the twenty-first anniversary of the founding of the Society."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, March 14, 1924."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held in New York March 14. the report of the Committee of Tellers, giving the result of its canvass of the nomination ballots received for the offices tobe filled at the coming annual election, was presented."
"To the Board of Directors, American Institute of Electrical Engineers Gentlemen: This Committee has counted and canvassed, in accordance with Article VI of the Constitution, the nomination ballots received for officers of the Institute for 1924–1925. The result is as follows:"
"The A. I. E. E. 1924 Year Book is available to members without charge, upon application to the secretary, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y."
"At the meeting of the Council of the International Electrotechnical Commission, held in Paris December 3rd last. Dr. C. O. Mailloux, who hadbeen President of the Commission silice 1919. retired, and was succeededby Mr. Guido Sein en za of Milan. Subsequently, in view of his distinguished services with the Commission, Dr. Mailloux was elected Honorary President of the Commission. An election was held also of the other general officers of the Commission. This Commission is represented in this country by the United States National Committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission, of which Dr. Mailloux was President also."
"A Strathcona Memorial Fellowship in Transportation, of One Thousand Dollars, is offered annually for advanced work in Transportation, with special reference to the construction, equipment and operation of railroads, the problems connected with the efficient transportation of passengers and freight and the financial and legislative questions involved. Theholder of the Fellowship must be a man who has obtained his first degree from an institution of high standing. In making the award, preference is given in accordance with the will of Lord Strathcona to such persons or to sons of such persons as have been, for at least two years, connected in some manner with the railways of the Northwest."
"The John Fritz Gold Medal will be awarded to Ambrose Swasey at 8:30 p.m., Wednesday, April 23rd, in the Auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, NY, USA. Chairman Charles F. Rand of the Board of Award will preside and addresses will be made by Gen. William Crozier, formerly Chief of Ordnance, US Army, and Dr. William W. Campbell, President of the University of California. The medalist will be presented by Dr. John R. Freeman, member of the Board of Award, and the medal will be conferred by Chairman Rand. There will be a response by Mr. Swasey."
"A number of requests for copies of the addresses given at the evening railroad session of the A. I. E. E. Midwinter Convention has been received, and as no space in the Journal is available for printing these addresses, a limited number of mimeograph copies has been prepared for distribution among those especially interested in this subject. These copies may be obtained on request to Institute Headquarters."
"The formulation and publication of Standards has constituted one of the most important activities of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers during the past quarter of a century."
"The Lynn Section of the A. I. E. E. has shown itself to be a live and growing organization especially during the last three or four years. Increasing membership has permitted it to extend its activities in several lines to meet the varying interests of its membership. The Bi-Weekly addresses by speakers of high calibre continue to be the chief activity of the section. It has added to this a committee which provides a trip each month to some nearby Industrial or Educational Institution. These trips have met the general approval of the membership and are very well supported. Five or six trips constitute the program for the season, and include the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with its laboratories, the Charlestown Navy Yard, the Hood Rubber Company with its tire industryand the Army Fortifications of Boston Harbor."
"Federal aid for a non-commercial investigation into the nature and use of paint and varnish is urged in a statement by a special committee of the Engineering Foundation, the national research instrumentalityof the four great engineering groups of civil, mining, mechanical, and electrical engineers"
"Final action in][the Sectional Committee to which these symbols hadbeen referred was unanimously voted upon and letters, signifying the approval by the three sponsors, were received from the American Institute of Architects, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, and the Association of Electragists, International. The Special Committee on approval of the standard reported in part as follows:"
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library ofengineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of serviceto those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearlywhat is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"FRANK EUGENE KINSMAN, inventor of many well-known electrical devices, died at his home in North Leominster, Mass. on Feb. 5, 1924, following a general breakdown."
"Akron. — February 21, 1924, Perkins School Auditorium. Railway Electrification Meeting, joint with Board of Education. Subject: “Electrification of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway.” Speaker: Mr. J. A. Anderson. This lecture was illustrated with lantern slides and a two-reel film, entitled, “An Electric Ride over the Great Divide” was shown. Attendance 125."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The first meeting of the Meetings and Papers Committee for the season of 1924–5 was held at the Institute Headquarters on September 12th. The Committee for the present season has been somewhat enlarged, as its membership includes the chairmen of practically all the Institute committees having to do with the technical work of the Institute and the chairmen of all Sections, in addition to eight, members of the Committee at large."
"The object of this composite paper is the presentation of a fairly complete description of this 220-kv. system and its operation, together with an account of some work which is being done in preparation for a third line to Big Creek. The first section is descriptive of the system and the flashover troubles, giving a detailed account of the bird theory for the cause of flashovers and of the evidence substantiating that theory, also of the measures being taken to prevent the birds from causing flashovers. The balanced relay protection for the lines and the relay installations to control a flashover or other accidental ground in case the balanced relays are not allowed to function, together with some information obtained from a study of flashovers are contained in the second section. Section three is devoted to a study which is being made to determine the mechanical and electrical characteristics which will give a most economical third line from Big Creek to Los Angeles. Both aluminum and copper conductors of various large sizes and working at various tensions are considered, and tower locations on ten miles of profile were made. Section four reports that vibration, particularly in the longer spans, has apparently caused some failures of ground wires and possibly of conductors. Frequencies of 13 to 30 cycles per second and amplitudes up to one inch have been recorded. The vibrations are believed to be due to air currents, but no means of preventing them has been discovered. In order to minimize the effects of vibration, it is proposed to reduce the weight of the dead end clamps so that the shocks will be transmitted to the tower connections instead of being absorbed at the outer end of the clamps as at present. A new light weight dead end clamp has been designed and is being tested under service conditions. In section five it is concluded that for a high voltage line of large capacity the high cost per mile and heavy tonnage to be transported during construction require careful location work to strike the most economical balance between a straight line and one most easily accessible for construction and maintenance. Right-of-way cost must also be given consideration, together with many other factors which make up the total cost. The complexity of the problem and the large amount of money involved with consequent opportunity for saving, warrant unusual methods of reconnaissance and survey, and purchasing right of way."
"Throughout the history of the Big Creek transmission line there have been flashovers which would occur occasionally at no particular interval and at no particular season of the year or time of day. This was the case when operating at both 150 kv. and 220 kv. These flashovers would occur in the proximity of an insulator string, would result in grounding one of the wires and would cause an interruption to the service. The operators became expert in handling these flashovers with the original installation of two units in each Big Creek No. 1 and Big Creek No. 2 and the synchronous condensers in Eagle Rock and the interruption resulting from a flashover was very short. When the system became more complicated by the addition of the frequency changer and the Kern River No. 3 connection at Vestal, with more generating stations at Big Creek, the manual control of flashovers did not give such good results. The procedure under manual operation was as follows:"
"The concrete example of the studies for a new 220-kv. line to the Big Creek water power plants will be used in presenting methods for arriving at the economic conditions of design for this article. The method used was as follows:"
"THE object of this paper is to give a brief preliminary account, without mathematical details, of the results of a mathematical investigation of wave propagation along wires. This investigation had its inception in the problem of radiation from transmission lines, which was discussed by the writer some time ago.1 It was found that, in order to completely and directly account for radiation phenomena, it was necessary to recognize the incomplete and approximate character of the usual engineering transmission theory, discard the special assumptions underlying it, and develop the theory ab initio from Maxwell's equations. Theoretically interesting and instructive deductions followed from this study, which are believed to justify the present preliminary discussion, which the writer hopes to supplement with a paper dealing with the mathematical theory."
"One of the most perfectly lighted stretch of automobile road in the world is located upon the Lincoln Highway a few miles south of Chicago. Twenty-eight concrete standards, spaced 250 ft. apart, each carrying a 250-c. p. electric lamp, equipped with a reflector which throws the light evenly upon the road bed but not beyond it, constitute the lighting equipment of this ideal section of the famous highway. During the course of a year these electric lamps are turned on by the master switch a total of 4000 hours and the yearly cost is less than 25 cents per foot of road illuminated."
"Occasional suggestion has been made in recent years that the properties of the high-voltage corona might be utilized as a protection against lightning and other similar types of disturbance on transmission lines. The idea in these suggestions is that since the ionization attending corona renders the air conducting, the excess voltage following the lightning discharge will be relieved or lowered by leakage between lines or to ground. It has been stated that lines operating in the highest range of transmission voltages are more immune from lightning disturbances than those of lower voltage, and that this is due to the fact that they operate nearer to corona-forming voltage, and that abnormal rises of voltage are thus prevented by the relatively low value at which corona forms. This paper aims to present additional evidence that the suggestion-mentioned is not only sound but has important possibilities. Experiments are described indicating a relatively simple and inexpensive method of equipping transmission lines to take advantage of the protective properties of the corona, without incurring its disadvantages."
"To the Editor: In the January 1924 issue of the JOURNAL, Mr. R. H. Marvin described a temperature and pressure correction chart for the sphere gap. It would appear that considerable calculation could be avoided and at the same time accurate results could be obtained, if the chart were arranged to give the relative air density instead of the correction factor. The correction factors, for a wide range of relative air densities for four standard sizes of sphere gaps, are given in the 1922 A. I. A. E. Rules, Table 205, page 23: curves may readily be plotted from the data in the table. In order to find a correction factor, the procedure would be (1) to read the relative air density from the chart at the given temperature and pressure and (2) to read the corresponding correction factor from the curve for the proper sphere gap. Neither of the two steps presents any real difficulties, as the chart is easy to use, while the spread of the correction factor curves is small for the data given in the table; particularly in the range of relative air densities from 0.80 to 1.10. A tabulation of data used in a chart covering a range of relative air densities from 0.80 to 1.10 is given herewith: in addition to these data, it is necessary to obtain the logarithms of several values of the relative air density from a table of logarithms. The tabulation and the chart are based on the formula:"
"The authors discuss the manufacture of large steam turbine-driven generators touching on what is considered the best practises of the present day. A description of a 62,500-kv-a. 60-cycle generator is included together with test data. The fact is brought out that even on the largest generators yet built, moderate temperatures may be expected. The losses and ventilation problems involved in this type of apparatus are discussed, and predictions made as to the probable sizes at given speeds which may be expected in the future."
"Today, the use of electrical energy for artificial illumination is so extensive that central stations can well afford to exert considerable effort in developing this phase of their business. It is only natural that the central station in any community should be looked upon by its customers as a source of information on proper electric lighting service and all that this implies. But, in spite of this fact, there are comparatively few central stations who can furnish what might be termed, illuminating engineering service."
"Results of corona loss tests upon three sizes of cables at voltages varying from 100 to 620 kv. and spacings from 18 to 38 feet are reported from the Engineering Experiment Station of Purdue University. These tests results, reduced to the standard 1000 feet of transmission line, are compared with corresponding values calculated from Peek's formula for similar conditions of operation. A description of the tower line and method of measurement of the losses in the high-voltage circuit is included. An empirical equation has been developed which approximates quite closely the relation between corona loss and voltage for different spacings. The variations of the empirical coefficient of this equation are indicated for 2/0 and 4/0 cables. Three methods of attacking the problem of modified transmission line design for the elimination of excessive corona losses between wires at extra high voltages have been outlined for further research and study. I. Calculation of Capacity and Corresponding Radius of Equivalent Coronal Conductor and its Relation to Voltage between' Wires. II. Determination of Corona Losses between One Wire and Ground. III. Photographic Reproduction of Equivalent Electrostatic Field Surrounding Model Conductors with Proportional Spacings between Wires and Ground. The paper should be considered a progress report to be enlarged and analyzed further at a later time."
"In cooperation with Engineering Foundation, the design of a carbon resistor cartridge for measuring deformation in mass concrete has been undertaken with particular reference to the study of arch dams. A particular reference to the study of arch dams. A cartridge made up which is now being given a series of laboratory trials to determine temperature and other effects. It is planned to make up a number of these cartridges and embed them in concrete with a view of determining the effects of shrinkage and other factors as an aid to interpreting results obtained in field work."
"A description is given of the apparatus for the measurement of power as low as a fraction of a watt at power factors approaching zero and voltages as high as 175 kv. to neutral. A standard make of portable wattmeter was used having maximum ranges of 1.5 watts, 37.5, 75 and 150 volts and 20 per cent power factor. To this wattmeter was adapted a three-megohm water column resistance multiplier. In the original form of the wattmeter the origins of certain errors, due to capacitances chiefly, were studied and methods for their elimination were subsequently determined. Integrity tests were developed by which the values of error powers were obtained and used as guides in making subsequent adjustments for the reduction of such errors to zero. These integrity tests were checked by using the wattmeter for the measurement of known amounts of power. Reconnaissance studies were made of the voltage-corona power loss relations for rope laid copper, 0.91-in., lock wire smooth copper, 0.91-in. and concentric strand aluminum, 1.006-in. diameter transmission line conductors in rain and fair weather at differing degrees of humidity, temperatures, and barometric pressures, from “initial” to “full” corona formation. This class of studies was extended to corona loss values as offered by a wide variation of the “surface roughness” of conductors subjected to high voltages. The losses for a single brush were measured and the shielding effect of groups of brushes was studied. Losses to single strings of insulators under different conditions were determined."
"Announcement was made at the Department of Commerce on September 16, that the date for the Third National Radio Conference has been set for Monday, October 6th, instead of September 30th, as was announced in the September JOURNAL."
"A limit of carrying capacity was reached in high voltage cables due to high dielectric losses, and in order to overcome this limitation, science had to be called upon to introduce measurements and tests to control this quality. The exact experience gained in the development of these tests by scientific men working in cooperation with the men of practical experience enabled the cable industry to attack the next limitation that confronted it, namely, dielectric strength. The industry has already made considerable progress, and the present problem is the complete elimination of occluded air and vapor from the insulation. Air films have been regarded as causes of low dielectric strength, due to ionization of the air and consequent formation of hot spots. It is advanced, herein, that a more useful conception of the danger of air films, is that they promote internal surface leakage. It has also been generally believed that air films can be detected by the slope of the voltage power-factor characteristic. It is contended herein that such is not the case. It is pointed out that the foundation for future developments has been laid by the equipment and organization of American cable manufacturing plants for accurate quality control by continual testing of raw and process materials."
"In the electric brass melting field, the United States has attained a tremendous lead over all foreign countries according to a report just made public by the Department of the Interior through the Bureau of Mines. Whereas in the United States there are about 540 active electric furnaces doing commercial non-ferrous melting, it is doubtful whether all foreign countries combined use 100 electric brass furnaces. Of the American furnaces, about 275 are induction furnaces, about 135 are moving indirect arc furnaces, 80 are Baily furnaces, while the remaining 50 furnaces are of various types."
"In the usual electrical machinery the magnetic saturation characteristic of iron is a handicap and in a-c. circuits gives rise to such undesirable characteristics as wave distortion and variable reactance, decreasing with increasing load. Furthermore, these characteristics are inherent in the material and can not be controlled by design to suit individual requirements or changing load conditions. Control of these characteristics can, however, be accomplished if the mean magnetic density in the core be controlled by means of a suitable d-c. excitation, in which event, the saturation characteristics of the iron can be put to some useful applications."
"This committee has during the past year continued the activity which was begun the previous year. As in 1923, it also in 1924 initiated a technical session held at the Spring Convention, devoted to electrochemical and electrometallurgical subjects. At this session, very excellent papers were presented which tended to indicate advances in the art and the status of the art in the respective fields covered. These papers were as follows :"
"At a meeting of this Committee in September, 1923, at which each member was present, plans for the ensuing year were discussed. It was agreed that the Annual Report should assume the form of either:"
"In addition to the five subcommittees which have been working during the past few years on protective devices, a new subcommittee on Automatic Stations was authorized and appointed last year and has been doing very active work."
"The subcommittee on Circuit Breakers, Switches and Fuses in cooperation with the representatives of the National Electric Light Association and the Electric Power Club have agreed on a definition of the interrupting duty of an oil circuit breaker. This definition as recommended to the A. I. A. E. Standards Committee is"
"The Relay Handbook is being published jointly with the National Electric Light Association, as mentioned in last years report. It is practically completed and publication may be expected during this fall. We feel sure that this book fills a need throughout the industry and its publication will be welcomed by all. On account of the large number already subscribed for, there will be 10,000 volumes printed which reduces the price to N. E. L. A. or A. I. A. E. members to $4.00 per single copy with quantity discounts for 100 copies to one address at $3.00 per copy. The price to nonmembers is 50 per cent above these figures."
"The newly organized Subcommittee on automatic stations has put in a year of very active work and has brought before the industry the dependability of protective devices for automatic stations in the six papers to be presented at one session of the Annual Convention in Chicago, by C. W. Place, H. L. Wallau, C. A. Butcher, Herman Bany, F. D. Wyatt and R. J. Wensley. The work of the next year has been very definitely laid out and the numerous subdivisions of this subject will be studied in considerable detail for a more comprehensive report next year. It is definitely planned to investigate the possiblity of applying automatic devices to perform all of the functions ordinarily included in the operators' duties even as far as such matters as the leakage of oil from transformer or switch tanks."
"Last year's committee covered the Eastern operating views on grounding of systems and this year's committee has studied the same problem from the angle on the Pacific Coast."
"During the administrative year 1923–24 the Electrical Machinery Committee has conducted the following activities:"
"The outstanding event in the field of engineering education during the past year has been the inauguration by the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education of a comprehensive project of investigation and development with provision for the active cooperation of the faculties of the engineering colleges, the professional societies, the employing industries, federal and state bureaus of education and other agencies."
"No attempt will be made to point out outstanding advances for the past year. Progress, in general, is continuous and not in marked steps. For this reason, it has been the policy of this committee to keep the membership informed by means of lectures by noted physicists and research workers rather than by an annual catalog of steps in progress. Such lectures have taken place during the year on general and specialized subjects. It has also been our policy to arrange popular lectures or reviews on the latest status of electrophysics. These lectures have probably always been better attended than those on any other subject. In passing, it may not be out of place to mention that wonderful advance has been made in the past few years in the knowledge of the interior of the atom and the radiations or energy changes that occur from its very heart. It is suggested that the committee next year arrange a popular lecture covering the latest knowledge of the atom."
"The number of kilowatt-hours per ton required to melt a given alloy under given conditions is helpful in comparing the performance of different electric furnaces among themselves, state Interior Department investigators in Serial 2597, “Present tendencies in electric brass-furnace practise,” just issued by the Bureau of Mines. In comparing electric furnaces with fuel-fired furnaces, the price paid for electric energy must be considered. In the early days of electric brass melting it was unlikely to compete with fuel when power cost over 1 cent per kilowatt-hour. With the development of the more efficient furnaces and the change in cost of fuel, it is today rare that an efficient electric furnace can not compete on 2-cent power."
"R. C. Bergvalll Our papers show a method of determining the maximum amount of power which can be transmitted with a load gradually applied. Mr. Moreland has incorrectly inferred that we propose to rate a transmission system as being capable of carrying this amount of power under normal operating conditions. The maximum amount of power which can be transmitted under steady state conditions can only be used as a basis for forming an engineering judgment as to the amount of power which should be transmitted over a given system. The point at which a transmission line should be worked will depend on local factors such as continuity of service requirements, a discussion of these factors being obviously outside of the scope of this paper."
"A paper entitled “A survey of street lighting practise in the United States” has been prepared for presentation at the annual Convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society. This paper gives data on the cost of street lighting per capita and per mile, and! the average levels of illumination in cities of different sizes."
"Experiences of manufacturers have demonstrated that for the majority of industrial locations and other work places a general overhead lighting system is the most satisfactory. As a result, the majority of new industrial lighting installations are of the general overhead type, and gratifying increased production, more cheerful working conditions, improved morale, and decreased fire and accident hazard are being obtained."
"The Lighting Educational Campaign, now in progress, is so broad in its scope that it well deserves to be ranked very high in its importance to the youth of the nation, for it is the largest educational campaign ever launched by any one industry in this country. The plans for the activity were formulated by the Lighting Educational Committee organized especially for this purpose and consisting of representatives from the National societies which are, in any way, connected with the lighting industry. The activity has the enthusiastic endorsement of such organizations as the National Educational Association, the American Institute of Architects and the Eyesight Conservation Council of America, and holds the profound interest of many of our greatest educators and health promoters."
"The plans and program of the Pacific Coast Convention at Pasadena were published in the September issue of the JOURNAL, and advance copies of nearly all of the papers have been widely distributed. Many of the members who signified their intention of attending the convention have left for the Coast and others are starting in a few days."
"A Paper on “Recent Developments in Radio Engineering” will be presented by J. H. Dellinger, Chief, Radio Laboratory, Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C, at the Philadelphia Section meeting, scheduled for October 13th at the Engineers Club, 1317 Spruce Street, Philadelphia."
"The meeting of The Institute of Radio Engineers which was to be held Wednesday evening, October 1, 1924, at 8:15 o'clock, in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th Street, New York City, has been postponed until Tuesday evening, October 7, 1924."
"A meeting of the Administrative Board of the American engineering council has been called for October 17 and 18 in Chicago. The Board will convene at the headquarters of the Western Society of Engineers, President James Hartness presiding."
"The Sixth Annual Convention of the American Gas Association will be held October 13–17 on the Steel Pier, Atlantic City, N. J."
"The 43rd Annual Convention of the A. E. R. A. will be held at Atlantic City, N. J., October 6–10, and also an exhibit by manufacturer members. Several leading bankers and economists, will discuss the question of financing electric railways, and Mayor Magee of Pittsburgh; W. D. B. Ainey, Chairman of the Pennsylvania Public Sendee Commission; L. F. Eppich, past president of the National Association of Real Estate Boards, Denver; and other nationally known speakers will talk on the problems of the industry."
"The St. Lawrence Deep Waterway to the Sea will be the major topic at the Fall Meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers to be held in Detroit, Mich., October 22–25, 1924. Other subjects of special importance and interest to engineers familiar with hydroelectric development, city planning, sanitary engineering and highways will be discussed."
"The American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers will hold its 130th Meeting at Birmingham, Ala., October 13–15. The meeting will be preceded by a tour of inspection of the mining districts of West Virginia and Tennessee."
"NEW YORK SECTIONS The first meeting of the New York Section will be held on the evening of Wednesday, October 15, 1924 in the Auditorium of the Engineering Societies Bldg., 33 West 39th St., New York, at 8.15 p. m. This meeting will be OF a general nature addressed by several men very prominent in the profession. Final details of the program have not as yet been definitely arranged but a notice giving full particulars will be mailed early in October."
"In May, 1923 the President of the Institute was authorized by the Board of Directors to appoint a committee to review the organization of the committees in charge of technical activities, and to make recommendations regarding any revisions that might seem desirable of the Institute's machinery for handling technical matters of all kinds."
"During the month of September, several leading members of the engineering profession from abroad were in the United States, including Sir Charles L. Morgan, President, Institution of Civil Engineers; Wm. H. Patchell, President, Institution of Mechanical Engineers; Sir Charles A. Parsons, Honorary Member, Institution of Civil Engineers and of American Society of Mechanical Engineers and Senatore Gr. Uff. Luigi Luiggi, President, Italian Society of Engineers and Honorary Member of the American Society of Civil Engineers."
"For the purpose of bring'ng about a closer relation of science and engineering between the United States and France, through the influence of personalities as well as the exchange of ideas, the engineering departments of the following seven universities, Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Pennsylvania and Yale, in cooperation with the Institute of International Education, arrange for an exchange of professors in Science and Engineering with the French Republic through the Minister of Education."
"The sixth session of the International Commission on Illumination was held at Geneva, Switzerland, July 22–25, 1924. It was attended by delegates from the National Committees in the United States, Great Britain, France, Italy and Switzerland, and by a representative from Japan. This meeting was particularly notable as it marked the active entrance of the Commission into the field of practical problems of illumination. In addition to the plenary meeting, five technical sessions were held, devoted to consideration of the following subjects: primary standard of candlepower; definitions, symbols and vocabularies; measurement of lights of different colors; and, wo sessions on practical use of artificial light. In all the sessions American contributions played a prominent part, notably the report by Dr. Herbert E. Ives covering an investigation on “A Primary Standard of Light following the Proposal of Wardner and Burgess.” The meeting which dealt with definitions, etc., agreed upon a considerable number of terms and definitions to be added to those adopted at the 1921 session. The meeting dealing with heterochromatic photometry received reports from a special committee summarizing progress during the last three years from the national laboratories in England and France and from the Bureau of Standards Turning to the question of the actual use of light, the Commission heard three notable papers representing the situation in America with particular reference to the activities of organizations commercially interested in furthering its more efficient use. John W. Lieb set forth the point of view of the modern operator of central stations. His paper was followed by those of G. S. Merrill and A. L. Powell respectively on “The Demonstration Method of Teaching Good Lighting Practise” and “Practical Illuminating Engineering.” Another group of papers dealt with street-lighting. The final technical meeting dealt with the legal regulation of lighting with reference to factories and school buildings. Automobile lighting was likewise discussed in a report from a special committee under chairmanship of Dr. Clayton H. Sharp."
"Announcement is made by Chas. M. Upham, Director of the Advisory Board on Highway Research of the National Research Council, that C. A. Hogentogler of the U. S. Bureau of Public Roads, has been granted leave of absence in order to conduct for that Board a fact-finding survey of the economic value of reinforcement in concrete pavements. This survey is to be national in scope, and will be conducted in cooperation with agencies interested in this important subject. It is proposed to cover the various soils, traffic and climatic conditions throughout the United States."
"Forty State Highway Commissions have already named representatives on the Advisory Board on Highway Research of the National Research Council. Through the State representation, the Highway Commissions and the Advisory Board will have a medium whereby research problems may be thoroughly studied. The problems will be brought to the attention of the various States and others engaged in highway research, and the solutions will be made known to the State Highway Commissions through their representatives, or contact men."
"National Electrical Code Approved. The Regulations for Electric Wiring and Apparatus in Relation to Fire Hazard, of the National Fire Protection Association, generally known as the “National Electrical Code,” 1923 edition, has been approved by the American engineering standards committee."
"With the approval of the Code of Lighting School Buildings as an American Standard by the American Engineering Standards Committee, a demand for definite, detailed and up-to-date specifications for lighting school buildings on the part of the architects of school buildings, school superintendents and school boards, and regulatory bodies has been met."
"There is now available in mimeographed form a limited number of copies of reports on two of the proposed revised sections of the standards of the A. I. A. E. These two reports “Standards for Instrument Transformers” and “Standards for Electrical Measuring Instruments” are the results of the work of representative Working Committees Nos. 25 and 29, under the chairmanship of Mr. G. A. Sawin and it is proposed they come up for final consideration by the Standards Committee in December. The Standards Committee, in conformity with the plan for obtaining as wide cooperation as possible in the revision of the entire Standards, believes that these reports have reached the stage at which they should be offered for the criticism and suggestion of interested persons. Copies will be mailed on receipt of request by the Secretary of the Standards Committee, Institute headquarters. All replies containing suggestions, etc., should be mailed directly to G. A. Sawin, Supply Dept., Westinghouse Elec. & Mfg. Co., East Pittsburgh, Pa. In order to permit of proper consideration these communications must be in the hands of Mr. Sawin by November 15, 1924."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, I Y."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"ROBERT E. RYAN has accepted a position with Dwight P. Robinson & Co., Pittsburgh, Pa."
"John Mayhew Elwell, an Associate of the Institute, died after an illness of one day on August 28th at the Jefferson Hospital, Philadelphia. Mr. Mayhew had been connected with the Philadelphia Electric Co. since 1907 and was at his office when stricken."
"The first meeting of the New York Electrical Society for the administrative year 1924–25 promises to be unusually interesting. The Director of the Lighting Research Laboratory, National Lamp Works, Cleveland, Mr. Luckiesh, will explain some of the very latest ideas that have been developed in the illuminating field. He will show among other things how artificial lighting has not kept pace with its rapidly decreasing cost and the increasing standards of living, prove daylighting indoors costs as much as artificial lighting and is less satisfactory and will discuss the quality of light with relation to the human being from several viewpoints. In connection with new data on the effect of quantity of light on our ability to see he intends to show that the most effective intensities are many times those with which we are ordinarily familiar in artificial lighting. Mr. Luckiesh will accompany his talks by interesting demonstrations and will test the speed of vision of the audience. This is believed to be the first time such a test has been attempted. Engineers interested are cordially invited to attend. The meeting will be held in the Auditorium, Engineering Societies Bldg., 33 West 39th St., New York at 8 p. m. on Thursday, October 23, 1924."
"The results of the past fiscal year just closed, of the Engineering societies employment service are most encouraging. It has been the aim of the National Societies to improve and extend the service and also to make it self-supporting, and that ambition is now beginning to be realized."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient, not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"SECTION MEETINGS Cincinnati Fault Finding on Transmission Cables, by S. Aronoff. The paper was illustrated with slides. September 11. Attendance 43."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Secretary Hoover of the Department of Commerce recently called the Third national Radio conference for the better voluntary regulation of radio, to be held in Washington, D. C., beginning September 30th."
"A brief history of the development of the squirrel cage repulsion motor and a physical explanation of the principles of its operation have been given in the preceding paper “A New Type of Single Phase Motor” by Mr. S. R. Bergman. It is the purpose of the present paper to give the results of an analytical study of the operation of the motor. The derivation of the method of calculation is outlined and some of the more interesting results are given."
"In electric light power stations where there are large water intakes for cooling purposes, etc., it will be found that the cement joint is very suitable, reducing the cost of lead joints, etc."
"SURGES and lightning potentials have been, to a great extent, dissipated over the overhead lines, and have caused innumerable interruptions on this part of the electrical system. It has recently-become possible to keep the factor of insulation so good on transmission lines that disturbances are now more often reflected into the generating stations or substations, or their allied equipments."
"Development of a line-radio or “wired-wireless” system, by which trolley wires, mine tracks, compressed air and water piping, cables and similar “carriers” are utilized for voice-transmission purposes, promises the solution of the difficult problem of establishing methods of communication between underground mine workers and the surface, which would be reasonably sure to withstand the severe disturbances occasioned by mine explosions."
"An apparatus has been developed by means of which it is possible to obtain a permanent record of the frequency and magnitude of each component of a complex alternating current. The device has two frequency ranges: 20 to 1250 cycles and 80 to 5000 cycles. The power required does not in general exceed 500 microwatts, and the time necessary for making a record is about 5 minutes. An attachment is provided by which, in the same length of time, two simultaneous analyses can be made if desired. In principle, the process consists in introducing the complex voltage to be analyzed into a selective network, the essential feature of which is a sharply tuned circuit whose frequency of tuning is controlled by varying the capacitance in small steps with a pneumatic apparatus similar to that in a player piano. A maximum of response of the circuit occurs at each frequency of tuning which coincides with a component of the complex wave. An automatic device records this response at each frequency of tuning, making a photographic record from which the frequency and magnitude of each component of the complex current may be obtained. For convenience of operation, an automatic control apparatus is provided, so that it is only necessary to connect the complex source or sources to be analyzed and press the starting button. The application of the analyzer in communication problems is shown by a few illustrative uses. A record of the output of a carbon transmitter button driven at an excessive amplitude shows harmonics of the driving frequency and of half the driving frequency. With a condenser transmitter the analyzer can be used to analyze sustained sounds in the air and the application of this method to tones of a few low-pitched organ pipes shows large differences in relative harmonic content. Analyses of the electrical input and acoustic output of a common type of loud speaker give an idea of the amount of distortion. The use of the analyzer in power problems is shown by records taken on a transformer at load and at no-load, and similar records on a d-c. generator. The no-load transformer record shows the amount of third and fifth harmonic in the exciting current with the secondary open. The d-c. generator records show various parasitic frequencies from 30 cycles to over 4000 cycles, and a consideration of the records leads to the probable causes of these parasitic frequencies"
"Technologic Paper, No. 256, on “Methods of Testing Radio Receiving Sets” is ready for distribution by the Superintendent of Documents at 10 cents per copy. The paper describes methods of measuring the electrical characteristics of a radio receiving set and formulates statements of features which may be learned by an inspection of the electrical and mechanical design of a set. This work was undertaken at the request of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics of the Department of Agriculture, representatives of radio manufacturing companies, testing laboratories, and other organizations. In developing the test methods described it has been the Bureau's aim to provide means for determining to what extent a receiving set embodies the following characteristics"
"Part I of the paper takes up first the division of losses by radiation and convection from tall vertical planes. It is shown that the loss by convection from tall planes can be expressed by the formula $W_{c} = 0.0014\\ A \\theta^{5/4}$ in which Wc is the watts, A the square inches of surface and θ the temperature rise in degrees centigrade. It is then shown that the division of losses from a black plane is, for temperature rises up to 100 deg. cent., approximately 45 per cent convection and 55 per cent radiation. Based upon this division, a simple formula is given for determining the ratio of losses for an irregular surface where the greater part of the loss is by convection. The effect of various colors on the temperature rise of transformers having both plain and corrugated tanks is discussed. In Part II it is shown that altitude does not affect radiation. The general average of the results obtained by various investigators shows that convection varies as the square root of the air density. Based on this, it is shown that for a constant loss by convection the temperature rise increases about 4.6 per cent for each 1000 meters increase in altitude. For transformers where a part of the loss is by radiation (unaffected by air density) the effect is reduced by the ratio of the convection loss to the total loss. Also the effect on the winding rise over the ambient is further reduced by the fact that the winding rise over the oil is not affected by altitude. The effect of the copper loss, however, is to increase the effect of altitude because the resistance is increased by temperature. Based upon the above facts it is shown that the temperature rise and rating of the two main classes of oil-immersed self-cooled transformers are affected by altitude as follows: Per cent increase in Copper Rise per 1000 Meters Increase in Altitude Per cent decrease in Kv-a. per 1000 Meters Increase in Altitude Self-cooled transformers (a) with plain tanks 1.75 1.35 (b) with corrugated, tubular and radiator tanks 3.0 2.3"
"Central-Station revenue that is, revenue from the consumption of electrical energy is the foundation upon which the tremendous electrical business of this country is built. Any device which increases this consumption is a boon to the whole industry, and even to the nation, provided that there is an accompanying economic advantage of appropriate magnitude. It would take a superhuman analyst to determine the exact increase to the safety, efficiency, comfort and happiness of a household contributed by a portable lamp. Fortunately, portable lamps in the home are still far below the saturation point from the basis of usefulness alone, so that searching anlysis is unnecessary. Even when this point shall be reached there will be justification for more “portables” solely on the basis of ornament."
"FOR a good many years, it has been recognized that practise in application of lightning arresters varies and that different engineers determine their choice and use of arresters on widely different base lines. While this may be partly explained by differences in climatic conditions, the variation is without question largely due to the fact that a clear relation has not been established between cost of and benefit from arresters."
"ALTHOUGH oil circuit breakers have been used for a number of years and many successful designs produced, the work of the designer has been handicapped by the lack of definite design constants, based on experimental results. On some of the earlier designs, field tests were relied upon for the confirmation of the interrupting rating. Such tests were of great value, but, due to the inherent erratic behavior of oil circuit breakers as a current interrupting device, the data obtained was not usually of a general or fundamental nature. To remedy this situation and to permit continuous and consistent research on the interrupting characteristics of alternating-current circuit-controlling devices, a special testing equipment was installed.1"
"The latest addition to the U. S. Coast Defense is a giant one billion-candlepower electric searchlight which weighs eight thousand pounds and is ten feet in diameter. It is mounted on a skeleton tower 100 feet tall patterned after the towers carrying heavy electric transmission lines. The balance of this huge searchlight is so accurate that two men operating a system of levers can raise or lower it at will in less than two minutes."
"The first electric light to be used in any retail establishment blazed forth on December 26, 1878, in John Wanamaker's department store in Philadelphia. People watching the light being turned on laid wagers that it could not be kept lighted. They also predicted that a store which used such surprising innovations would cease to be. The electric light which was turned on in the Wanamaker store, was a Jablochkoff candle. It was one of the earlier types of the electric arc light."
"YEARS ago in studying the nature of corona losses occurring from a small high-voltage laboratory line the cathode ray tube was used to observe the cyclic relation of corresponding instantaneous values of line voltage and charge.1 It was found that the sides of the resulting diagrams were practically parallel, causing them to resemble hysteresis cards. The significance of this was not recognized at the time. More recently two items were encountered that have called for a critical study to be made of these same diagrams: (1) the value of the power lost through corona from a transmission line closely approximates that given by the product of the charging current and the voltage in excess of the critical voltage; (2) the dominating importance of the crest voltage in relation to corresponding corona loss. These items clearly indicated the hysteresis character of corona formation."
"A brief outline of the processes involved in the production of steel is followed by a discussion of the characteristics of the various rolling mills and the types of motors used to drive them. Considerations affecting the choice of frequency are also discussed. The author believes that the greatest contribution of electricity to the steel industry is the providing of a means for economically using the waste gases from blast furnaces. He points out the importance, as a conservation measure, of the utilization of blast furnace gas and other sources of by-product power."
"The use of open-type electrical equipment, which fails to safeguard against the transmission of sparks and flame to gaseous and dusty atmospheres in coal mines, constitutes a real menace to the American miner, according to the Department of the Interior. Records of the Bureau of Mines covering 26 coal mine disasters and fires due to unsafe electrical apparatus show the loss of 500 human lives in addition to great damage to property. An open-type electric coal drill used in a gaseous mine in West Virginia was the probable cause of the death of 27 miners, the Bureau points out. A half-safe type of electric coal-cutting machine used in a gaseous mine in Pennsylvania was probably the cause of the death of 36 men. An unapproved, unsafe type of flame safety lamp used in a gaseous and dusty mine in Utah was the alleged cause of the death of 171 men. All three disasters happened within the past six months, and would seem to have been avoidable if proper equipment had been used."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the administrative year beginning August 1, 1924, was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, August 12. Results of the meeting are reported."
"Describes the memorial resolution to Mr. Lamme, who died July 8, adopted by the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE), at its meeting held August 12, 1924."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The first meeting of The Institute of Radio Engineers for the winter season 1924-25 will be held on the evening of Wednesday, October 1, 1924, at 8:15 o'clock, in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th Street, New York City. A paper on \"Radio Direction Finding\" by H. deA. Donisthorpe of the Marconi International Marine Communication Company, Ltd., will be presented. This important aid to navigation will be discussed from the practical point of view. All members of the Institute and their friends are cordially invited to attend."
"American Chemical Society meetings and events of interest to engineersand AIEE members."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, NY. All members are urged to notify the Institute headquarters promptly of any change in mailing or business address, thus relieving the members of needless annoyance and also assuring the prompt delivery of Institute mail, the accuracy of our mailing records, and the elimination of unnecessary expense for postage and clerical work."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient, not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The announcement last month of a new type of electric locomotive to be furnished for use on the single phase lines of the New York and New Haven road by the General Electric Co. is significant in that it suggests a means whereby the long-standing controversy between the advocates of alternating current traction and those of direct-current traction may unite upon a solution which combines the advantages and eliminates the disadvantages of both systems."
"At a recently held Street Railway Convention a visiting railway official remarked that judging from the character of the exhibits one might well conclude that he was in attendance at an automobile show. The manufacturers of buses and bus accessories displayed no end of industry in placing before the visiting railway officials a wide variety of their wares, while electric railway track service equipment was little in evidence. One visitor offered the view that the trolley cars were all busy hauling passengers and that the manufacturers of electric railway equipment were too busy filling orders to have time for the convention."
"The idea of customer ownership of public service corporations is recognized to have many engaging possibilities. It is agreed that the desired end is best served when the corporation's stock is widely distributed among the users of service, rather than when large blocks of stock are held by a few individuals."
"Edwin James Houston, the ninth president of the Institute, was born on July 9, 1847, at Alexandria, Virginia. He was educated at the Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa., at which school he was later, and for many years, professor of physical geography and natural philosophy."
"The Meetings and Papers Committee has its work in hand unusually well in advance this year, and already some of the papers for the Midwinter Convention next February have been passed upon for early publication. The new rule of the committee requiring manuscripts t o be submitted ninety days in advance of the meeting is being rigidly adhered to, and this fixes November 9th as the final date for the receipt of Convention papers."
"A complete laboratory setup for measuring losses at low power factors from high-voltage circuits is assembled around a moving water column resistance multiplier which permits the direct use of standard low-voltage instruments. A shielding system is used to eliminate capacitance effects in the loading and voltage circuits. The paper contains structural details of the wattmeter aggregation and the loss loading equipment, and the operating procedure for conducting atmospheric and insulator loss measurements."
"Methods have been developed by the Bureau of Standards for the measurement of small cyclic changes in electrical resistance when such changes can be definitely synchronized with an alternating current. These depend for their action upon the rectification produced when an alternating current is passed through a conductor in phase with a change in its resistance, and are extremely sensitive and selective."
"This paper presents a method for calculating the steady state value of the short-circuit current in a fault to ground on a power system operated with grounded neutral, and the distribution of this current throughout the system. Constant impedances and electromotive forces in the system, and electrically short lines, are assumed, and line capacitance is neglected. If, at the time the fault to ground occurs, the distribution of the load current in the system is known, the total current in any portion of the system under the short circuit condition may be calculated by means of this method. By “total current” is meant here the sum of that part of the fault current which appears in the branch considered, and the normal current in the branch due to the loads. The latter current, of course, does not appear in the fault. Formulas and equivalent circuits for the usual three-phase transformer and generator connections used in practise, are given. The use of such circuits permits the calculation of the fault current and its distribution in the power system from an equivalent single-phase network. Since currents in a three-phase network under balanced conditions may also be calculated from a single-phase network, it is accordingly possible to calculate, entirely on a single-phase two-wire basis, the total current in any branch of a star grounded network for a ground on any phase. The setting up of equivalent 2-wire single-phase networks similar to those for the three-phase case is not generally possible where the number of phases exceeds three. The value of the method lies in its enabling one to calculate on a single-phase two-wire basis the short circuit current (steady state) due to a ground on a three-phase grounded neutral system, as regards both magnitude and distribution and taking into account all system loads. In the usual approximate method of making short-circuit calculations, a single-phase-to-neutral network is substituted for the actual network. While this method involves less labor than that proposed in the paper, the results obtained by it are inexact, the effect of non-grounded loads being usually ignored. The method of the paper involves much less work than that required by three-phase calculations giving equal accuracy. An illustrative example is given."
"“The Standardization of Tests for Dry Cells Used in Radio Receiving Sets” is a report of the Radio Battery Committee, presented at the Philadelphia Meeting of the American Electrochemical Society in the spring of this year. This report was subsequently adopted by the conference of manufacturers and users of dry cells. It will be noted that the appendix of this report contains the minimum requirements for tests adopted by the Bureau of Standards."
"STUDIES of the most economical size of conductor for the Southern California Edison Company's third 220-kv. transmission line from Big Creek to near Los Angeles led to the choice of either a 1,033,500-cir. mil aluminum steel core or the equivalent 650,000-cir. mil copper cable."
"Length of line was to be 275 miles. This was determined by the fact that the present Big Creek lines from Big Creek to Eagle Rock Substation are 243 miles in length and the lines from Eagle Rock to Laguna Bell Substation are 26 miles or a total length of 269 miles. Assuming that the future lines would terminate at Laguna Bell or in the same neighborhood, the round figure of 275 miles was used."
"Among the problems connected with the 220-kv. lines, that of the vibration of conductors and ground wires has claimed its share of attention. On account of the larger diameter of the conductors this phenomenon is clearly visible, and exaggerated reports are frequently received that the conductors are jumping up and down 6 in. or more. There have also been complaints of the rattling of towers, even on still nights. In one instance a conductor failed at the outer end of a dead end clamp and the appearance of the broken strands indicated that vibration might have caused the break. A second conductor was discovered with 28 aluminum strands out of a total of 54 broken at the end of a dead end clamp. Numerous rases of broken ground wires have been found, the strands breaking at the point of attachment to the towers. In a few cases ground wires have fallen but a larger number of broken strands has been discovered by inspection and repaired before complete failure of the cable. These troubles led to an investigation of the vibration problem as it appears in the spans of the Big Creek and Eagle Bell lines. While this investigation has not yet led to definite conclusions as to the cause of vibration and method of preventing it, the information obtained is presented here as a part of the operating record."
"Transmission line location is an art which has been somewhat neglected as compared to other branches of the electric utility industry, or, as compared to railroad or highway location. This has come about in a natural way because transmission lines in the beginning were comparatively cheap affairs and even with the advent of steel tower construction and higher voltages the cost per mile was far below that of a railroad or well constructed highway. Often much time and engineering skill were expended on power houses, dams and pipe lines and even on transmission line design, but the location and construction of the line were put off until the last moment and then rushed through in a haphazard fashion with resultant losses."
"One of the most useful fields for radio is the reception of broadcasting in hospitals. Besides the benefit to patients through the entertainment provided, medical authorities testify to the actual therapeutic value of the mental relief thus afforded. The Bureau of Standards is assisting in the technical phases of current movements to equip many thousands of hospital beds with radio service. Since the middle of March of this year S. L. Rothafel, managing director of the Capitol Theatre, New York, I Y., and his broadcasting artists have been raising funds for the installation of radio in the United States military service hospitals. A technical committee of Government experts (representing the Signal Corps, Navy Department, and Bureau of Standards) is furnishing technical advice as to the material and method of installation for these hospitals. The first hospitals equipped were Walter Reed General Army Hospital, Naval Hospital, and Mount Alto Veterans Bureau Hospital, all located in Washington, D. C."
"The present paper has been prepared with a view of describing the theoretical properties, mechanical construction, and possible application of a new electron relay, invented and developed by Samuel Ruben, a physicist of New York. This relay has been developed to control currents as great as 5 amperes by means of extremely small operating currents of any frequency, and its use is suggested, therefore, in radio and carrier-current systems, and where similar requirements are to be met."
"Electrical engineers in Germany are being forced by the high price of coal to utilize the nation's waterpower resources to the fullest extent. The first hydroelectric plant in the Province of Brandenburg, located at Spremberg, started operating this year. The satisfactory results obtained have led to a survey of other possible power sites in this province and favorable places have been discovered at Wendisch-Buchholt, at Boden near Deichow, and at Lausitzer Neisse near Forst. The intentions are that work will be started on these plants as soon as economic conditions in Germany permit."
"To the Editor: I note with interest the report of the Iron and Steel Industry Committee as set forth in the JOURNAL of the A. I. A. E. for October, 1924, and am particularly interested in Item III covering yard electrification."
"The capacitance, or electrostatic capacity, of conductors of various shapes has practically always been calculated by the “inverse method” of first assuming certain charges of electricity and from them calculating equi-potential lines and surfaces, which, in the more fortunate cases, agreed exactly with the shapes of the conductors. In other cases, such as that of a three-conductor sheathed cable, the agreement, and therefore the calculated capacitance, were only approximate. For multi-conductor cables with round conductors, a “direct method” of calculation of capacitance is described in this paper, which uses the exact shape of the round conductors, and which gives accurate expressions for the irregular distribution of electricity on the conductors, and for the value of the capacitance. Formulas and examples are given for the following cases: 1. Finite wire and infinitesimal wire. 2. Single-phase overhead line. 3. Two conductors and sheath. 4. Three conductors and sheath."
"IN transformer design, about the last thing to be determined is the efficiency, and, as all the principal constants have been worked out, it is rather a bother. When it comes to distribution or listed transformers, the work of calculating the different efficiencies is particularly onerous on account of the very number of them."
"IRRIGATION, or what is known as artificial watering of the soil, has been practised in the agricultural districts of our country, and in parts of European and Oriental countries for a great many years."
"THERE has been considerable discussion among engineers interested in the operation of large turbo-generators as to the possible effects of expansion and contraction on armature coil insulation. During the past ten years, generators have increased in core length from less than 100 in. to 160 in. and generators approaching 200 in. in core length are being discussed. With increasing length of cores, it has become more important to settle this question and the tests described in this paper were undertaken three years ago with this object in view. Preliminary tests were started on May 5, 1921, in order to work out some of the details of the procedure. The investigations herein described were actually started on June 2, 1922, the test coils having been prepared just previous to that time."
"Current-limiting reactors are desirable only insofar as they are strictly reliable protective devices. In this paper general considerations of the factors affecting reliability are outlined, and some of the early weaknesses and the means taken to eliminate them are enumerated. Modern reactors are considered to be reliable and on large systems are considered practically indispensable. The thermal duty of a current-limiting reactor is a consideration affecting the reliability which has been the subject of considerable discussion. Various opinions have been expressed ranging from the idea that a reactor should fail first and open the circuit in the event of short circuit, to the idea that it should have enough thermal capacity to withstand short-circuit currents for long periods of time. A middle ground is suggested in this paper where recognition is given both to the protective function of the reactor and to the practical consideration of dimensions and cost."
"According to laws as taught at present, if the writer (and some others) understand them correctly, when electrons travel from the center of a circular disk to the circumference (or the reverse) they will not encounter any self-inductance in this radial path. Hence such a one-way circuit is non-inductive, which seems to mean that no flux is generated. Hence, even if the current is very large, a magnetic needle placed in close proximity to such a disk would not show any deflection. It would be a curious case of a uni-directional current without any magnetism."
"The number of current transformers tested during the past fiscal year at the Bureau of Standards was over four times the average number submitted during the preceding six years. The reason for this sudden increase originates in a new method for the testing of this class of apparatus in the field. This method was invented at the Bureau of Standards and has been incorporated in a convenient testing set."
"The usual polyphase high-voltage rectifier produces a potential essentially constant out having superposed on it a “ripple” or alternating component whose amplitude on each side of the mean is from five to seven per cent of the total d-c. voltage. Condensers and reactors are used to filter the ripple out. The paper describes a special type of a-c. generator which will give the proper low-voltage wave form for rectification as a more nearly smooth direct potential. A method of manually or automatically varying the low-voltage wave form according to load demands is provided so as to keep the rectified potential steady, thus avoiding the necessity for the filter which in sets for 100,000 volts or more would be quite expensive and troublesome."
"Review of the Subject — Recent developments in a-c. low-voltage networks have aroused a condiderable amount of interest as to the application of a-c. distribution to the service requirements of business centers of large cities. Therefore, when the New Orleans Public Service Inc. was recently confronted with the necessity of rehabilitating its underground distribution system, it was decided that a thorough investigation should be made to determine the economics and advantages of various a-c. systems as compared with d-c. distribution. This paper describes the system which, as the result of the investigation, was selected to form the basis for serving the future growth of load in the underground district of New Orleans and for eventually displacing the present distribution system. An economic comparison of several types of systems which were studied is also included."
"The losses due to unequal distribution of alternating current in copper conductors in half-open slots have been treated by numerous authors. The method given here does not disclose any new results but it shows an elementary way by which to arrive at an understanding of these not always simple phenomena."
"Prof. V. Karapetoff: I should like to draw your attention to a simple mechanical model which is represented mathematically by the same differential equations as the electric circuit discussed in the paper. Think of a horizontal helical spring attached at one end to an immovable wall and at the other end to a mass supported on frictionless rollers. Let there also be a tank with viscous fluid, and let a vane attached to the mass be immersed in it. Without this viscous fluid we would have a simple oscillating system; by starting it from a position which is not one of equilibrium, and letting it go, we would produce oscillations which theoretically would go on forever. By adding a vane and a viscous liquid we get damped oscillations; mathematical equations for this system are exactly the same as the equations for a circuit containing R, Land C, but no leakage."
"V. M. Montsingera About ten years ago or something over, Dr. Langmuir published his first paper on the film theory, in which he showed the remarkable agreement between the test results and calculations, at high temperatures, principally from 100 up to 1000 degrees. I could never get satisfactory results at temperatures below 100 degrees, which is a very important field for electric apparatus, especially transformers, generators and motors, and in fact, Dr. Langmuir himself agreed with me that the film theory did not check exactly at these low temperatures, and there was some factor that was not exactly known. Now, fortunately, Mr. Rice has shown us the method to use and has introduced a factor that takes care of the discrepancies."
"G. D. Robinson: Will the authors please state what decrease or increase of filament life is found to accompnay the use of the alkali vapor?"
"G. D. Robinson: Will the authors please state what decrease or increase of filament life is found to accompnay the use of the alkali vapor?"
"Bassett Jonesl It strikes me that the paper by Messrs. Lindquist and Kearsley presents a method of solving a very large class of differential equations of almost any order and complexity involving both continuous and discontinuous functions. The method should prove of inestimable value in mathematical engineering. As the authors have shown, the method makes the solution of even an unknown equation, relating two or more variables, a practical possibility provided only that the actual physical relationship between these variables can be observed and graphically represented. It is not required that the mathematical expression for this relation be known, or if known in abstract form, it does not follow that the detail form of the expression is req uired."
"K. L. Hansen: Because of the fact that the inherent speedtorque characteristic of the induction motor makes it less suitable than the direct-current motor to applications where masses of considerable inertia have to be accelerated and retarded at frequent intervals, the application of alternating-current power to certain classes of elevators presented a formidable problem. It appears that the system of control described in Mr. Bouton's interesting paper was first thought of in connection with elevators as a solution to this problem."
"R. S. Glasgow: The alternating-current voltmeter described by Mr. Wilson will be quite valuable in a large number of radio-frequency measurements. Particularly in the investigation of radio-frequency amplifier circuits is there a need of such an instrument. However, the type just described has too low a resistance to be employed in the majority of such circuits, as the radio-frequency current in the output circuit of the average vacuum tube amplifier is seldom more than a few milliamperes."
"W. F. Dawson: I can endorse one point which Mr. Alger made, namely that shaft currents are often associated with high saturation in the stationary armature cores of synchronous generators."
"H. W. Brooks (by letter): Mr. Penniman's paper is of intense interest to many designers now working on new plant construction. There is, however, a vast field for application for heat-balancing devices in plants designed prior to the last three to five years as there are undoubtedly enormous losses taking place in many of these older plants owing to lack of proper heat balance. In private consulting practise last year the writer encountered a very interesting problem of this character in the plant of the Chicago, Aurora and Elgin Railroad Co. at Batavia, Ill., where a dual-drive exciter set of 300kw. capacity was finally designed in cooperation with the manufacturer. The steam end consisted of a 200 lb. pressure, 150-deg. superheat, non-condensing, direct-connected turbine of the impulse type, while the electric drive end consisted of a three-phase, 25-cycle, 2300-volt, phase-wound, induction motor, both machines being directconnected to the 300 kw. generator mounted between them and functioning at 750 rev. per min."
"To the Board of Directors: In this report we are giving a brief summary of the advances which have been made or which have come into prominence in the communication art during the past year. The papers which have been presented under the auspices of this committee have, in general, been a record of such advances, and they are mentioned under the appropriate headings in the report."
"To the Board of Directors: The Instruments and Measurements Committee submits the following report, giving briefly a summary of its activities during the past year."
"To the Board of Directors: The Committee on Mines has very little to report this year. There has been but one session held, at which papers pertaining to mine electrification were presented namely, at the Birmingham Meeting. At this meeting a partial mining session was held, and three papers' were presented on mining subjects. One of these was by L. C. Ilsley, Electrical Engineer of the Bureau of Mines, and was entitled, “Electrical Safety in Coal Mines.” C. E. H. Von Sothen of the Industrial Engineering Department of the General Electric Company presented a paper on, “Automatic Sub-Stations for Mines;” and F. R. Grant and the writer presented a paper on “Tests on Mine Hoist Control,” describing the operation of a large Ward Leonard hoisting equipment. Mr. Grant is also of the Industrial Engineering Department."
"To the Board of Directors: Just before the close of the last administrative year, a special committee was appointed to consider and report to the Board of Directors:"
"The application of light-intricate in its many colors and intensities to the plot of a theatrical production has, within recent years, been developed into a veritable art. The “light plot” of a large production is just as surely an essential factor in its success as are the actions and movements of the actors themselves. The proper use of light on the stage may transform a bare set of draperies into almost any scenic illusion desired. On the other hand a scene may be ruined as easily by improper lighting as by poor acting."
"Earnest technical work and delightful social features make the Fall Convention held in Pasadena, October 13–17, a memorable convention of the Institute. A registration of 363 was recorded consisting of visitors from all sections of the country. The technical program was a full one with many papers in some sessions but each session drew an unusually large attendance and held it until the end. The entertainment program was also thoroughly enjoyed."
"The trip of twenty-six eastern delegates to the Pasadena convention is reported to have been a splendid success. At every stop on the way the party was met and entertained lavishly and its path made easy to visit points of interest. The party gathered at Chicago and left on the evening of September 26th. Before its arrival in Colorado Springs the next morning it was greeted by Institute members from Colorado, some of whom had come by train or in cars over a hundred miles from Boulder and Denver. Those greeting the visitors were W. C. Du Vall, Boulder; R. B. Bonney, H. H. Kerr, B. C. J. Wheatlake and W. H. Bullock, Denver; Frank Vogler and M. Carroll, Colorado Springs."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"On October 3–4 many notables from all over the world united to celebrate the One Hundredth Anniversary of the founding of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute at Troy, N. Y., the oldest technical school in the world."
"Jn a letter to Col. James L. Walsh of the New York District Ordnance Office, Army Building, New York, Secretary Alfred D. Flinn on behalf of the Board of Trustees extended to the Government the privilege of using the Engineering Societies Building as set forth in the following resolution:"
"At the meeting of the Executive Committee of the North Eastern District, held September 19, 1924, the First Paper Prize established by the Committee in March 1823 as outlined in the April 1923 JOURNAL, was awarded to Professor H. M. Turner of Yale for his paper entitled The Transient Visualizer. Fifteen papers, including Prof. Turner's, were submitted in competition and the following received honorable mention: Corona I nvestigalion of an Artificial Line by Murray F. Gardner and An Efficient Tuned Radio Frequency Transjormer by F. H. Drake and G. H. Browning. The prize which consists of $25.00 cash and suitable certificate will be presented to Prof. Turner at the November 20, 1924 meeting of the Connecticut Section to be held in New Haven, Conn."
"By the will of Henry R. Towne, of Yale and Towne Manufacturing Company, who died October 16, the endowment of Engineering Foundation is increased $50,000. This sum is bequeathed to United Engineering Society as the trustee of the Engineering Foundation funds for the four national Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers."
"Engineering Foundation has been assigned Room 222 in the new building of the National Academy of Sciences and the National Research Council “in token of appreciation of the assistance rendered by the Engineering Foundation to the National Academy of Sciences in the establishment of the National Research Council.”"
"Engineering Foundation was founded in 1914, the first gift for endowment, $200,000, was delivered to United Engineering Society as trustee on February 24, 1915. Only the income could be expended. Members of the Foundation Board were elected March 25, 1915 and met for organizing April 15. With no expendable funds yet accumulated and less than $10,000 a year in prospect, no project could be undertaken immediately."
"At the meeting of the Administrative Board of the A. E. C. in Chicago, October 17th, the following resolution was adopted:"
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"WARD W. LUSK is at present with the Bethlehem Cuba Iron Mines Co., Santiago de Cuba, Cuba, Box 383."
"MABLE WEIL, physicist, died on June 9, 1924. Miss Weil received her A. B. degree from Barnard College in 1916 and her A. M. in 1917 from Columbia University. She was awarded the Curtis Graduate Scholarship in mathematics in 1916, and the following year the same scholarship in physics."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"MARINE STRUCTURES, THEIR DETERIORATION AND PRESERVATION. Wm. G. Atwood and A. A. Johnson, October, 534 pp., 169. Fig. 14 PI. National Research Council, New York. Price $10.00."
"From time to time some member has occasion to consult a rather rare book or a foreign periodical that is not owned by many libraries. In most cases the need can be met by photoprinting the desired article, but there are cases where the length of the memoir makes this too expensive to be practical."
"SECTION MEETINGS Cincinnati Some of the Main Features of the Heavens, by Professor Smith, University of Cincinnati. October 9. Attendance 62."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient, not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Unless otherwise indicated, the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before November 30, 1924. Aker, W. A., Western Union Tel. Co., Atlanta, Ga. Amezaga, M. F., The Francisco Sugar Co."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"At the last regular monthly meeting of the Publication Committee a number of important matters was discussed and acted upon, including technical committees' annual reports, the index of TRANSACTIONS, publication of authors' business affiliations, and the large amount of material received for publication. Definite action was taken on several of these subjects, as explained in the following items:"
"This paper, after discussing the criterion of street lighting effectiveness, presents comments upon certain of the variables of street lighting. Test data are presented upon certain sizes and types of incandescent lamps for street lighting. An attempt is made to indicate something of the present status of street lighting, including the presentation of a selected list of modern lamp posts and lighting equipments. The paper concludes with data to show the character of installations now recommended by experts for the lighting of various classes of streets, and the advance in recent years in ideas of desirable levels of street illumination."
"There is an aspect to this reduction in the price of lamps other than the resulting lower cost to the consumer. This aspect is what the reduction signified as a manufacturing accomplishment it acts as a challenge in the manufacture of other electrical products. What Henry Ford has demonstrated to the automobile industry the larger incandescent lamp factories have demonstrated no less conclusively to the electrical industry."
"Consideration is given to the method of determining and expressing the transmission efficiencies of telephone circuits and apparatus, and of the desirable qualifications for a unit in which to express these efficiencies. The “transmission unit” described in this paper has been selected as being much more suitable for this purpose under present conditions than the “mile of standard cable” which has been generally used in the past."
"A new high voltage underground cable, carrying 50 per cent higher voltage than has hitherto been possible in this country, and twice as much power as any previous underground cable, was recently placed in operation in Cleveland. The cable, carrying 66,000 volts, now forms part of the transmission lines of the Cleveland Illuminating Company, a subsidiaryof the North American Company."
"Present practise in the design of automatic hydroelectric generating stations is reviewed. Various methods of starting and controlling are listed together with their limitations. Certain points in dispute, such as the W R2 required for speed regulation and brakes for bearing protection are presented in the hope that discussion will aid in clarifying the situation to such a degree as to permit of standardization of practise. A brief description of the sequence of operations in a modern automatic switching equipment, is given."
"All men deal with matter in the gross and our bodies are of it constructed. Mysteries of matter, therefore, have a fascination for thoughtful laymen, as well as scientists and technologists. The atom has long been familiar as the ultimate unit of matter."
"DURING the past year the Niagara Falls Power Company has put into service the first unit of an extension which will contain the three largest water wheels and generators at present in the world, each generator having a maximum rating of 65,000 kv-a. at 12,000 volts and 25 cycles."
"An article by Mr. A. H. Jansson in the Marine Review for April 1924gives some very interesting data as to the comparative costs of operation of a motorship and a turbine driven vessel of practically the same tonnage and characteristics."
"The first commercial, privately owned Diesel-electric hopper dredgewill be put into operation on the Great Lakes by the Construction Materials Company of Chicago during the present year. Orders have been placed for complete electrical equipment to be installed in the LAKE WEIR, which will be converted for this purpose."
"OUR times in this century have often been referred to as the Age of Power. The interest now shown in hydroelectric developments almost justifies our renaming the present age “The Hydroelectric Age.”"
"In December 1920 and March 1921 there were placed in service at Cameron's Falls on the Nipigon River two 10,600-kv-a. 12,000-volt vertical generators driven by water turbines rated at 12,500 h. p. at 72 ft. head. The voltage was stepped up to 110 kv. by three 8000-kv-a. transformers and energy transmitted approximately 80 miles to Port Arthur where thevoltage was changed to 22 kv. by means of three 4000-kv-a. transformers. In 1921 energy was delivered at 110 kv. to a paper mill at Nipigon about 12 miles from the generating station."
"Conductivity determinations of insulating materials, and therefore the determinations of the leakage resistance of a cable, condenser or similar structure, have always been more or less unsatisfactory, due to a phenomenon often called “soaking in of the charges.” In general, if a constant direct voltage is impressed upon a circuit, in the first moment large transient currents flow, representing the energy storage and adjustment in the magnetic and dielectric fields of the circuit. These transient currents however vanish very quickly, usually in a very small fraction of a second, and all the currents in the circuit or circuits then become constant. If a constant direct voltage is impressed upon a cable or similar structure, large transient currents also flow momentarily; but after these currents of energy adjustment in the electromagnetic field of. the system have vanished, usually after a small fraction of a second, the remaining current is not constant, as in the usual electric circuit, but continues to decrease-slowly, for minutes or even hours. If then the cable is discharged by short-circuiting it, after the large initial transient discharge current has passed and the voltage on the cable has become zero — in a small fraction of a second — the current coming out of the cable does not entirely vanish, but a small discharge current continues to flow for many minutes or even hours. Or, if the cable has been discharged by short-circuiting it for a short time, until its terminal voltage has become zero, and the short circuit is taken off, a terminal voltage and an electrostatic charge gradually build up again at the cable, reach a maximum after some minutes, and then gradually decrease again. Various explanations have been proposed of this phenomenon as a hysteresis effect of the dielectric, etc. It is shown in the following, that this phenomenon of the “soaking in of the charges” or the “electrification of the cable” is a true electric circuit transient, has nothing to do with hysteresis effects, but is the result of, and explained by the energy adjustment of a system with constant values of resistance, inductance and capacity, that is, is in no essential different from the usual rapid starting or stopping transient of the ordinary circuit, except that it is many thousands of times slower. This great slowness is due to the fact that the resistance in the transient circuit is the leakage resistance of the cable dielectric, and therefore extremely high, measured not in ohms but in hundreds of megohms. If the dielectric of the cable consists of two or more materials, having different resistivities, or different specific capacities, or both, then the distribution of voltage through the dielectric gradually changes. At the moment of voltage application, the voltage distributes between the component dielectrics in proportion to their specific capacities; gradually however this voltage distribution changes to a distribution proportional to the resistivities of the component dielectrics, and electrostatic charges build up in the interior of the dielectric, at the boundaries between the component dielectrics. The electric quantity has to be conducted through the dielectric, and due to the very high resistivity of the dielectric, this energy readjustment within the dielectric occurs with extreme slowness, giving a transient of a duration of many minutes, but a true electric transient nevertheless, like the usual transients of a duration of milliseconds. In the discharge of the cable, the reverse occurs, and the internal charges gradually disappear by conduction through the dielectric. This phenomenon is discussed in its various aspects, and the equations of the slow transient derived, in the following: It is shown that this slow transient always is impulsive or exponential, and consists of (n — 1) terms, if the insulation is composed of n materials. A number of conclusions are derived, some of which may be pertinent withregard to the mechanism of breakdown of insulation. By this slow transient, the energy stored in the cable as condenser increases. Its apparent capacity increases. The conduction current, and therefore the i2 r losses in the dielectric, are much larger with alternating than with direct voltage. The distribution of dielectric stress between the component dielectrics changes and this may give a different dielectric strength for alternating voltage — at which the initial condition of stress distributions is permanent — and for direct voltage. Also, a time lag of insulation breakdown may result, which is not a temperature or deterioration effect. Under certain conditions, there may occur a negative time lag, that is, a condition where the insulation stands higher voltages when slowly and continuously applied than when rapidly applied for a short time."
"To serve as a standard of radio frequency the Bureau of Standards has two specially constructed wavemeters covering the frequencies in moregeneral use from 18 to 4600 kilocycles per second (16,650 to 65 meters). These standard wavemeters are used in calibrating wavemeters belonging to the Radio Inspection Service, manufacturers, colleges or others in need of standards of frequency, in radio measurements and in adjusting the radio transmitting set which is used to transmit standard frequency signals."
"THE great demand for supplies of zinc required in the manufacture of munitions, especially in the manufacture of brass shells which contain 66.6 per cent copper and 33.4 per cent zinc, led to an investigation in 1915 to ascertain the feasibility of producing metallic zinc in Canada. This resulted in the establishment of a zinc plant by the Consolidated Mining and Smelting Co. of Canada at Trail, B. C., at an initial cost of $2,500,000."
"The point raised by Mr. K. L. Hansen in his letter published in the April JOURNAL regarding the large volume of technical literature is, in my opinion, very well taken."
"1. Certain experimental arrangements for an underground alternating current distribution system are covered in the paper. 2. Low costs and characteristics satisfactory for general utilization of alternating current are contrasted with difficulty of obtaining reliability. The advantage of adopting system characteristics which will make each service suitable for lighting, appliances, and motors is indicated. There is described experience with a combined light and power network on one set of mains. Effect of voltage variation on incandescent lamp illumination is discussed. An appendix covers tests on this subject. 3. Reliability in service of standard distribution materials is considered. Tests on cables are described which indicate that for underground distribution conditions, low-voltage cables will eliminate arcing faults while high-voltage cable will not do so. An appendix of arcing tests is attached. 4. Certain factors are discussed relative to size of mains and location of transformers necessary to make the low voltage network clear its own faults. 5. There is a description of an experimental system consisting of several radial high-voltage feeders, the distribution transformers of all these being connected on the low-voltage side to a common low-voltage cable network. 6. The reactance of the transformer circuits is almost three times that of standard distribution transformers. 7. The only protective devices used are automatic circuit breakers installed in the low-voltage cables between the distribution transformers and the network. The switches open on a reversal of energy from the network and close when the transformers are in a condition to supply power to the network. The devices are sensitive enough to open on transformer magnetization energy. 8. Great reliability is obtained for the network as a switch failure an a high-voltage fault is the equivalent of a short-circuit on the secondary network. 9. Ability to switch automatically all transformers by controlling the supply end of the feeder to which they are connected allows a higher all-day efficiency due to the saving of iron loss at periods of light load. This feature also makes it easy to work on high-voltage equipment. 10. A description of the equipment used in this experimental installation and operating results of switch equipment from date of installation in April 1922 to March 1924 are given. 11. It is believed that with low-voltage a-c. underground networks arranged as described, the reliability is the same as the reliability of the sources supplying the various radial high-voltage feeders. The possibility in the future of a protected network arrangement of the supply system is mentioned."
"In the Journal of the Franklin Inst. p. 559, Nov. 1921, Carl Hering describes a modification of the classical Ampere trough experiment for whose explanation he believes the usual electromagnetic laws inadequate. The present paper gives detailed experimental and mathematical analysis of this circuit. The circuit is a wire rectangle A B C D, 70 cm long, 25 cm wide, interrupted at the center of one long side, C D by troughs of mercury, of rectangular cross section, 4 cm by 1 cm deep, perpendicular to C D and spaced 5 cm between centers. With the bridge close to C D on either side, there is no perceptible force. With the bridge inside the rectangle and 2 cm to 20 cm from C D, the force is away from C D. With the bridge inside the rectangle and more than 20 cm from C D, the force is toward C D. With the bridge outside the rectangle and more than 2 cm from C D, the force is away from C D. If the length of conductor in the circuit be increased by movement of the bridge, an increase of inductance is possible even with a decrease of the area enclosed by the circuit. Calculation shows a maximum or minimum of inductance in regions where the direction of force changes. The bridge always moves so as to increase the inductance. Inductance measurements check the calculated values. Furthermore, analysis of the forces between the bridge and the other elements of the circuit by the usual laws explains the observed movements of the bridge. Recently published results of Morecroft, A. I. E. E., p. 1191, Nov. 1923, confirm these conclusions. — F. W. Grover, J. P. Daz and J. Turnbull, Union College."
"Originally designed for railway service in small units, the use of the non-attended automatic substations has gradually been extended to substations feeding d-c. networks and a-c. lighting and power distributions of increased capacity and importance. They are justified economically up to the point at which the fixed charges and operating costs on the additional equipment required over and above a manually-operated station, equal the costs of attendance. A description of an a-c. station having an ultimate capacity of 12,000 kw. follows, emphasis being laid upon the more interesting features of design."
"The variations in the magnetic properties of iron and iron-alloys, even of supposedly constant composition, have been puzzling to the users and investigators of ferro-magnetic materials ever since the introduction of such materials for electrical apparatus. The author started to investigate this problem over ten years ago at the University of Illinois, and has continued it at the Westinghouse Research Laboratory since 1916, concentrating on iron and iron-silicon alloys. While the results obtained do not eliminate 100 per cent of the difficulties, they go a long way in that direction. It has been found that carbon is largely responsible for the variations, because of the fact that amounts so small as previously to be regarded as traces — less than 0.01 per cent — remain dissolved in the iron in the solid stale, even after slow cooling, and have a tremendous influence on the magnetic properties. Of much less effect is carbon precipitated as pearlite, free cementite and graphite, the effect being in the order named. If the effect of dissolved carbon be represented by 100, the effect of carbon as pearlite is 16.5, of carbon as Fe3 C 2.25, and of carbon as graphite nearly nil. The form assumed by carbon — aside from the carbon in solution — depends largely on the silicon content, and can best be explained by referring to Fig. 9. Besides carbon, it has been found that the grain size has a large and definite influence on the magnetic properties, due to the accompanying intercrystalline amorphous cement that may be regarded as an impurity similar to other intercrystalline impurities. The detrimental effect of sulphur, phosphorous and manganese on pure iron is in the order named, while phosphorous has a beneficial effect on high silicon alloys. The evidence obtained is to the effect that the increased reluctivity, coercive force, or hysteresis loss, due to carbon and other impurities that are precipitated combined with iron — including in this class the inter-crystalline cement — is caused by the inherent corresponding property of these precipitated impurities. Regarding the tremendous effect of carbon in solution, it is suggested that this is due to the entering of carbon into the more or less stable equilibrium arrangement of the ferro-magnetic structure, upsetting this equilibrium arrangement."
"Individual electric plants are not very widely used on farms in Great Britain, but are found to a considerable extent on large country estates and are becoming increasingly popular for use in small country bungalows. As a rule thay could be arranged to furnish power for pumping or for other industrial purposes, but in practise are rarely so used."
"The human eye has gone along through countless years, with little change in what was demanded from it. It worked through the daytime, for the most part looking at rather large objects, and when it became dark it generally ceased to function. Now, within just a few years this has all changed. The use of the eye for fine work, for reading and for fine manufacturing operations, has been very greatly increased and then in addition, we are demanding that it do much of its work under artificial light which, furthermore, in many cases is far from good."
"Present indications point to an enthusiastic and widely attended Annual Convention, June 23 to 27, at Edgewater Beach, Chicago. The technical papers are especially good and will reveal much new information on distribution, cables, automatic stations, reactors, communication, electrical machinery, electrophysics and street lighting."
"There was never a better time to visit the Great West and see America's incomparable scenic wonders than this Fall when the Pacific Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be held in Pasadena. Pasadena is having a fortieth anniversary this year and has prepared herself to entertain whole conventions of visitors during the year. Invitations have been extended by President Harris J. Ryan and by the Convention Committee to the pioneers, past-presidents, and other prominent members who laid the foundation stones and did so much to build up the electrical industry."
"The dates of the Northeastern District Meeting which is to be held in Worcester, Mass., have been changed to June 4 and 5. The announcementpublished in the May JOURNAL gave June 5 and 6 as the dates but these were changed because the commencement exercises of Worcester Polytechnic Institute will be held on June 6. It was thought that some of the members would like to attend these exercises."
"The Annual Business Meeting of the Institute was held at 8.30 p.m. on the evening of Friday, May 16, 1 9 2 4 in the Auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York. The business meeting, which was held jointly with a New York Section meeting, was opened by Chairman Morehouse of the New York Section who turned the meeting over to President Ryan. The President called upon Secretary Hutchinson to present the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. The Secretary presented this report in abstract, calling particular attention to the growth of the Institute during the past year as instanced in the report of the Membership Committee and in. the summary of Section and Branch activities."
"On June 19th when the S. S. Scythia sails from New York there will be on board a large number of engineers representing many branches of the profession, all en route to the World power conference to be held in London June 30 to July 12. The classified program for the Conference has now been issued. Thirty-seven papers are to be presented under the auspices of the American Committee, covering the general range of topics to be discussed."
"Farley Osgood, Vice-President and General Manager of the Public Service Electric Company, Newark, N. J. has been elected President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the year beginning August 1, 1924, as announced in the report of the Committee of Tellers published elsewhere in this issue."
"The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, May 16,1924."
"The Annual Report of the Board of Directors of the A. I. E. E. was presented at the Annual Business Meeting of the Institute held in New York, Friday evening, May 16, 1924"
"In studying the performance of lightning arresters it is convenient to start with the hypothetical curve of the potential wave traveling along a circuit wire, as the result of a lightning discharge or other abnormal disturbance. Up to the present time it has not been found possible to determine the actual form of the potential curve of such a traveling wave, but it is felt that a representative analysis may be made by considering the general wave forms shown in Fig. 1, in which for simplicity the normal line voltage is omitted."
"The Sub-committee on Current-Limiting Reactors of the Protective Devices Committee of the A. I. E. E. has felt the need of a Purchaser's Specification for Current-Limiting Reactors. This matter has been considered during the last two years, and as a result, a Tentative Purchaser's Specification has been prepared."
"T. Commerford Martin, President of the Institute 1887–88, died suddenly on Saturday, May 17, 1924. Mr. Martin was recuperating from a serious operation at his summer home in Massachusetts when taken ill. He was born in London in 1856. He entered the Countess of Huntington College as a theological student. In 1877 he came to America and took up work in the laboratory of Thos. Edison, chiefly on phonographs, telephones, etc. In 1879 he went to Jamaica, West Indies where he edited a paper until 1882. He then returned to the U.S. and edited the “Operator” and in 1883 got out the first issue of the “Electrical World” and he continued as editor of that Journal and its components until 1909, when he became Executive Secretary of the National Electric Light Association. Mr. Martin who was a founder and charter member, has held every office in this Institute except that of Treasurer and it was only in our last issue, May, that an appreciation of his life and work as one of the the leaders of the A. I. E. E. was published."
"At New York University on the afternoon of Tuesday, May 13, 1924, Thomas A. Edison unveiled in the Hall of Fame, the bust of Joseph Henry, educator and scientist. The bust was presented to the University by the A. I. E. E. and provided from funds raised by member subscription and by appropriation. The bust is one of ten just added to the many already in place above commemorative tablets to famous Americans. Frank B. Jewett, former president of the Institute, made the commemorative address. Dr. Jewett called attention to Henry's independent discovery of electromagnetic induction, his hypothesis concerning the oscillatory nature of electric discharge and his part in the manufacture of insulated wire. The speaker also pointed out the part he played in the building up of the Smithsonian Institution and of the National Academy of Sciences."
"An electrical exposition is being planned by the city of Omaha for the early part of November. It is to be a memorial to the late C.P. Steinmetz and a celebration of 4 0 years of electrical achievement in America. Many of the largest electrical companies of the world will have exhibits, for which prizes will be given. One of the largest exhibits will bedevoted to radio."
"A most interesting lecture given by Dr. Lee De Forest before the Yale University Branch on May 7 was enjoyed by an audience of 2000 people. Dr. DeForest spoke of the various methods which have been employed to obtain “talking motion pictures” and described in detail the various stepsin the operation of the method which he has developed. He also outlined the practical possibility of his development, the “Phonofilm.” Demonstrations of various features of the method were made during the course of the lecture by means of several reels of the film."
"The Report of the Committee on Award of Institute Prizes was approved by the Board of Directors on May 16. This report which states the decision of the committee on the award of prizes for the year 1923 is given below."
"Just 40 years ago, George Westinghouse started his career in the field of electricity. On May 20, 1884 he signed a contract with William Stanley, whose great gift to the industry while connected with Westinghouse was the development of the transformer, which has made possible the long distance transmission of alternating current at relatively high voltages, reducing it to low, usable voltages at the necessary points. Beforethis time direct current only was used."
"The new building for the National Academy of Science and the National Research Council was dedicated with fitting ceremony on April 28th, in Washington, D. C. In token of the appreciation of the assistance rendered, a room was formally assigned to the Engineering Foundation."
"A triennial prize of almost 15,000 francs for the best original paper presented on scientific progress and development in any branch of electricity has been established by the George Montefiore Foundation, Liege, Belgium. This prize was instituted by George Montefiore, late President of Honor of the Association des Ingenieurs Electriciens and founderof the Institut Electrotechnique Montefiore."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested, hi asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"The members who are borrowing books from the Library under the new loan plan are availing themselves of the privilege of purchasing the books to an unexpected degree. The Library practically sends out books on an approval plan similar to that used by some publishers. If the borrowerfinds that the book sent will be of permanent use to him he can send to the Library the amount for which the book has been insured, as this is equivalent to the publisher's price, and the book becomes his property. If there is only a temporary need for the book, it may be retained as long as required and then returned to the Library. For this a rental of five cents a day is charged after the allowance for time in transit has been deducted."
"ANDERS OXEHUFWUD has accepted a position as Designer with the Utica Gas and Electric Company, Utica, N. Y."
"Chestert. Allcutt, an Associate of the Institute, died on March 10,1924. Mr. Allcutt graduated from Stanford University in 1915, and later became Research Engineer with the Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., East Pittsburgh."
"The date of the Annual Meeting of the Associated Manufacturers of Electrical Supplies and the Section Meetings, which had been fixed for the week beginning June 23, 1924, has been changed to the week beginning Monday, June 16, 1924, at the same place, the Hotel Ambassador, Atlantic City, New Jersey."
"Instrument Transformers, by E. S. Foster, Packard Electric Co. A number of interesting slides were shown. May 3. Attendance 70."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will, it is hoped, be sufficient, not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Note: Before they can converse people must either be brought together or virtually be brought into one another's presence by the telephone. Any telephone system must establish talking connections between its subscribers, and these connections must be built up, supervised and disconnected when desired. This work is accomplished by the use of relays of various kinds, and the speed and accuracy of service is largely dependent upon them. There are completed daily in the Bell System about 42,000,000 telephone calls. These involve the successful and accurate operation of over one and one-half billion contact connections daily. Many kinds of relays are employed in the Bell System, varying from the simple electromagnetic drop to the sequence switch, the thermionic vacuum tube and the panel selector. Today a circuit connection between two subscribers served by manual exchanges in a large multi-office district involves about 21 relays. When these subscribers are served by machine switching offices, the number of relays in a local connection may be as great as 146. It not infrequently happens that in setting up a toll connection more than 300 relays are employed. In the present paper the relay developments leading up to, and making possible the present communication system, are outlined with particular reference to electromagnetic relays. A few typical circuit applications are given with a discussion of the requirements imposed upon relays which influence their design. Several types of relays are illustrated and their distinctive features are described. The subjects of relay design, manufacture and maintenance and also telegraph relays will be dealt with in future papers."
"Whenever we measure any physical quantity we customarily obtain as many different values as there are observations. From a consideration of these measurements we must determine the most probable value; we must find out how much an observation may be expected to vary from this most probable value; and we must learn as much as possible of the reasons why it varies in the particular way that it does. In other words, the real value of physical measurements lies in the fact that from them it is possible to determine something of the nature of the results to be expected if the series of observations is repeated. The best use can be made of the data if we can find from them the most probable frequency or occurrence of any observed magnitude of the physical quantity or, in other words, the most probable law of distribution. It is customary practice in connection with physical and engineering measurements to assume that the arithmetic mean of the observations is the most probable value and that the frequency of occurrence of deviations from this mean is in accord with the Gaussian or normal law of error which lies at the foundation of the theory of errors. In most of those cases where the observed distributions of deviations have been compared with the theoretical ones based on the assumption of this law, it has been found highly improbable that the groups of observations could have arisen from systems of causes consistent with the normal law. Furthermore, even upon an a priori basis the normal law is a very limited case of a more generalized one. Therefore, in order to find the probability of the occurrence of a deviation of a given magnitude, it is necessary in most instances to find the theoretical distribution which is more probable than that given by the normal law. The present paper deals with the application of elementary statistical methods for finding this best frequency distribution of the deviations. In other words, the present paper points out some of the limitations of the theory of errors, based upon the normal law, in the analysis of physical and engineering data; it suggests methods for overcoming these difficulties by basing the analysis upon a more generalized law of error; it reviews the methods for finding the best theoretical distribution and closes with a discussion of the magnitude of the advantages to be gained by either the physicist or the engineer from an application of the methods reviewed herein."
"THE traffic executive deals with questions which lead him into the consideration of problems of widely differing natures. At almost every turn he is confronted by the fact that his decisions and programs in relation to these different phases of the work must be based on records which are seldom continuous and in most cases are merely “samples.” These sample records are assumed to measure the characteristics of the entire volume of facts or data of which they are taken to be representative. In the use and analysis of these records there are a number of perplexing questions which come to his mind if he allows himself the luxury of a little theoretical speculation."
"Note — The following paper may be considered as introductory to the subject of photomicrography. Doubtless everyone is casually familiar with photomicrographs of the crystalline structure of various metals. The application of this branch of the optical art to the study of metals is very important in the design and manufacture of telephone apparatus but its importance in telephony is more far-reaching than in the study of metals alone. Various of these applications are suggested by the illustrations reproduced in the Appendix of this article. — Editor."
"Note: The art of electrical communication employs such a wide variety of methods for the transmission of intelligence that it utilizes alternating currents whose frequencies cover the entire range between a few cycles per second and several million. With the increasing use of these methods, it becomes more and more imperative that determinations of the frequency of any alternating current may be made with extreme accuracy. In particular, recent developments in carrier current telephony and telegraphy over wires have placed exceedingly rigorous limits on the frequency adjustment of certain types of apparatus. It is many times necessary to hold such equipment as oscillators or filters to within 0.1 per cent. of given frequency values under commercial operating conditions. This means that calibrating devices used in the manufacture and maintenance of such circuits must be reliable to 0.01 per cent. and that the primary standard should be good to about 0.001 per cent. or one part in 100,000. The present paper discusses one of the methods recently developed in the Bell System Laboratory for obtaining a source of practically constant frequency with which other frequencies may be compared. It consists of a clock-controlled tuning fork making 50 vibrations per second and, as is shown, the maximum deviation of its frequency from the mean is less than one part in 50,000. A study has also been made of means for improving the constancy of the control clock and a new type of clock mechanism consisting of an electrically actuated pendulum, the impulse of which is controlled by a photo-electric cell, is suggested. — Editor."
"Note: Dr. Darrow, the author of the following article, has made it a practice to prepare abstracts and reviews of such recent researches in physics as appear to him to be of special interest. The results of Dr. Darrow's work have been available to the staffs of the Bell System laboratories for some time and having been very well regarded, it is thought that such a review, published from time to time in the Technical Journal, might be welcomed by its readers. The review cannot, of course, cover all the published results of physical research. The author chooses those articles which appear significant to him or instructive to his readers, without attempting to pass judgment on the scientific importance of the different papers published. It is not intended that the review shall always assume the same form; at one time it may cover many articles, at another be devoted to only a few, and it may occasionally treat of but a single piece of work. The present installment, which is Number II, is devoted very largely to the subject of atomic structure. — Editor."
"AUSCULTATIO is commonly practiced by means of the ordinary stethoscope, a device with which th e physician is able to study sounds produced within the heart, lungs, or other portions of the body and to determine whether such abnormal conditions exist as are evidenced by abnormal sounds. Of particular importance are the characteristics of the normal heart sounds, heart murmurs, breathing sounds and râles.1 It is well known that the intensity of certain of these sounds is not in itself of fundamental significance, that, for example, certain very faint murmurs may represent serious organic lesions; hence it is of pathological importance that these sounds be heard and understood."
"THE necessity for mathematics in industry was recognized at least three centuries ago when Bacon said: “For many parts of nature can neither be invented [discovered] with sufficient subtility nor demonstrated with sufficient perspicuity nor accommodated unto use with sufficient dexterity without the aid and intervening of mathematics.” Since Bacon's time only a very small part of nature has been “accommodated unto use,” yet even this has given us such widely useful devices as the heat engine, the telegraph, the telephone, the radio, the airplane and electric power transmission. It is impossible to conceive that any of these devices could have been developed without “the aid and intervening of mathematics.” Present day industry is indeed compelled, in its persistent endeavors to meet recognized commercial needs, to make use of mathematics in all ot the three ways pointed out by Bacon. The record of industrial research abundantly continus his assertion that sufficient subtility in discovery, sufficient perspicuity in demonstration, and sufficient dexterity in use can be achieved only with the aid of mathematics."
"Important information regarding the excellence of a signal transmission system is deducibile troni i knowledge of the mode in which sinusoidal currents “build-up” in response to suddenly applied sinusoidal electromotive forces, since on the character and duration of the “building-up” process fiepend the speed and fidelity with which the circuit transmits rapid signal fluctuations.1 The object of this note is to disclose and discuss general formulas and curves which describe the building-up phenomena, as a function of the line characteristics and the frequency of the applied e.m.f., in the extremely important case of long periodically loaded lines. The formulas in question are approximate but give accurate engineering information and are applicable to all types of periodic loading under two restrictions: (1) the line must be fairly long, that is, comprise at least 100 loading sections, and (2) it must be approximately equalized, as regards absolute steady-state values of the received current, in the neighborhood of the applied frequency. Fortunately these conditions are usually satislicd in practice in those cases where the building-up phenomena are of practical engineering importance. Furthermore, the formulas to be discussed supply a means for the accurate and rapid comparison of different types of loading in correctly engineered lines."
"The transmission loss characteristic of a transmitting network as a function of frequency is an index of the network's steady-state selective properties. Methods of calculation heretofore employed to determine these characteristics for composite wave-filters are long and tedious. This paper gives a method for such determinations which greatly simplifies and shortens the calculations by the introduction of a system of charts. Account is taken of the effects of both wave-filter dissipation and terminal conditions. The method is based upon formulae containing new parameters, called “image parameters,” which are the natural ones to use with composite wave-filters. A detailed illustration of the use of this chart calculation method is given and the transmission losses so obtained are found to agree, except for differences which in practice are negligible, with those obtained by long direct computation. In the Appendix are derived two sets of corresponding formulae which are applicable to a linear transducer of the most general type, namely, an active, dissymmetrical one; the one set contains image parameters and the other set recurrent parameters. An impedance relation is found to exist between the four open-circuit and short-circuit impedances of a linear transducer even in the must general case. Reduction of these formulae to the more usual case of a passive linear transducer is also made, those containing the image parameters being especially applicable to the case of composite wave-filters."
"IN considering such topics as the flow of electricity through solids and the outflow of electricity across their boundaries, wc have to forego the assistance of the great system of laws, models, and word-pictures which constitutes the contemporary theory of the structure of the atom. This imposing and truly powerful theory, which nowadays seems to bulk larger than all of the rest of physics, is after all limited to certain restricted fields; it deals successfully with particular properties of isolated atoms, and also with certain qualities of atoms which seem to be localized in their inner regions; but it avails little or nothing in the study of the behavior of liquids and solids. Much of the present-day theory of electrical conduction in solids is based only on the very simplest assumptions as to the nature of the atoms of which they are built, some would even remain valid under the old-fashioned ideas of continuous electrical fluids; and profoundly as we may believe that solids are built of atoms resembling Bohr's famous model, it is highly doubtful whether that model has ever helped to interpret a single one of the phenomena of conduction or done more than to provide a new language for old ideas."
"The necessary and sufficient conditions that a driving-point impedance be realizable by means of a two-mesh circuit consisting of resistances, capacities, and inductances are stated in terms of the four roots and four poles (including the poles at zero and infinity) of the impedance. The roots and the poles are the time coefficients for the free oscillations of the circuit with the driving branch closed and opened, respectively. For assigned values of the roots, the poles are restricted to a certain domain, which is illustrated by figures for several typical cases; the case of real poles which are not continuously transformable into complex poles is of special interest. All driving-point impedances satisfying the general conditions can be realized by any one of eleven networks, each consisting of two resistances, two capacities, and two self-inductances with mutual inductance between them; these are the only networks without superfluous elements by which the entire range of possible impedances can be realized; the three remaining networks of this type give special cases only. For each of these eleven networks, formulas are given for the calculation of the values of the elements from the assigned values of the roots and poles."
"THE installation and maintenance of the circuits in a telephone plant employed for the transmission of speech require the use of various testing schemes to insure a high grade of commercial service. Circuits are engineered and installed to meet the established standards of transmission in the most economical manner and this having been done the next step is to provide an adequate testing program. A number of the electrical tests required in this program include well known laboratory methods adapted so that they can be readily applied in the field, while others have been developed for particular use in telephone maintenance work."
"THE Reciprocal Theorem, an interesting and extremely important relation of wide applicability, which was discovered by Lord Rayleigh, is stated by him in the language of electric circuit theory as follows: “Let there be two circuits of insulated wire A and B, and in their neighborhood any combination of wire circuits or solid conductors in communication with condensers. A periodic electromotive force in the circuit A will give rise to the same current in B as would be excited in A if the electromotive force operated in B.”1"
"Consideration is given to the method of determining and expressing the transmission efficiencies of telephone circuits and apparatus, and of the desirable qualifications for a unit in which to express these efficiencies. The “transmission unit” described in this paper has been selected as being much more suitable for this purpose under present conditions than the “mile of standard cable” which has been generally used in the past."
"THE purpose of this paper is to outline the practical considerations involved in the use ol the transmission unit (abbreviated TV), which was recently adopted by the Bell System to replace the mile of standard cable in transmission engineering work. A description of the TU, together with a discussion of the considerations which led to its adoption has been given by Mr. Martin in another article in this issue."
"A knowledge of the impedance characteristics of loaded lines is of considerable importance in telephone engineering, and particularly in the engineering of telephone repeaters. The first half of the present paper deals with the impedance of non-dissipative loaded lines as a function of the frequency and the line constants, by means of description accompanied by equations transformed to the most suitable forms and by graphs of those equations; and it outlines qualitatively the nature of the modifications produced by dissipation. The characteristics are correlated with those of the corresponding smooth line. The somewhat complicated effects produced by the presence of distributed inductance are investigated rather fully. In the absence of distributed inductance a loaded line would have only one transmitting band, extending from zero frequency to the critical frequency. Actually, however, every line — even a cable — has some distributed inductance; and the effect of distributed inductance, besides altering the nominal impedance and the critical frequency, is to introduce into the attenuating range above the critical frequency a series of relatively narrow transmitting bands — here termed the “minor transmitting bands” — spaced at relatively wide intervals. The paper is concerned primarily with the impedance in the first or major transmitting band; but it investigates the minor transmitting bands sufficiently to determine how they depend on the distributed inductance, and to derive general formulas and graphical methods for finding their locations and widths — an investigation involving rather extensive analysis. The latter half of the paper describes various networks devised for simulating and for compensating the impedance of loaded lines; it furnishes design-formulas and supplementary design-methods for all of the networks depicted; and outlines a considerable number of applications pertaining to lines and to repeaters."
"An electrical circuit having a natural oscillation-frequency any-where below 108 can be constructed by anyone with suitable condensers, inductance-coils, and a few feet of wire at his disposal. It can be set into oscillation by abruptly closing it when the condenser is charged, by coupling it to an audion, or otherwise; and the waves which it radiates while oscillating can be detected and measured, at least when the frequency exceeds 104. Thus it is possible to generate perceptible electromagnetic waves of frequencies up to 108, and hence of wavelengths down to 3 metres, by methods that may be called electrotechnical. Waves shorter than 300 cm., frequencies higher than 108 cycles, are not easily produced by any such method; for if one uses excessively small condensers and inductance-coils in the hope of forcing the circuit-frequency much past 1081 or even omits coils and condensers altogether, it is found that the auxiliary apparatus, the audion, even the wires of the circuit themselves, possess capacities and inductances which can not be annulled and which hold the oscillation-frequency down. By devising oscillating systems which have scarcely any outward resemblance to the circuits of familiar experience (although a formal analogy can be established) Hertz and his successors generated electromagnetic waves of frequencies up to 1011 and wavelengths down to 3 mm. Beyond a certain gap there commences, near frequency 1012 and wavelength 0.3 mm., the far-flung spectrum of rays emitted by molecules and atoms. This interval is one of the two lacunae in the complete electromagnetic spectrum extending from 104 past 1020 cycles, which were mentioned in the preceding article of this series. Unlike the gap between the ultraviolet and the X-rays, it is not believed to be populated by rays resulting from important processes occurring within the atoms, nor do we know of any other peculiar type of radiation which should be sought within it; and perhaps the bridging of it, when finally and unquestionably achieved, will be held notable chiefly as a feat of experimental technique or a tour de force. On the other hand, so long as the gap remains unspanned, we can hardly dismiss the possibility that something in the order of nature may reserve one range of wavelengths for the “natural” rays resulting from atomic processes, and limit the “artificial” waves generable by electrotechnical means to a distant range which never can be extended to overlap the other."
"Recent papers1 have discussed at length the use of toll cables for the handling of certain long distance traffic. These cables, which are being used in areas of dense traffic, have been made possible by many developments in cable design, repeaters and loading coils. Coincident with these developments have gone others which are finding their application in the extensive establishment of improved open wire circuits for use over very long distances. The purpose of the present paper is to discuss some of the considerations involved in the overall design and maintenance of these very long open wire circuits. These circuits are often referred to as “backbone” circuits and supply a network of trunk lines for the entire Bell System. The most important of these routes are shown in Fig. 1."
"THE vacuum tube oscillator is fast becoming one of our most versatile circuits and the requirements which are being imposed upon it are constantly increasing in severity. In some cases it is asked to efficiently convert several kilowatts of direct current power to alternating current power. At other times, it may be called upon to deliver an alternating current having a frequency which shall remain constant within extremely narrow limits. It may be required to operate at a few cycles per second or at several million."
"Carrier Telephony on Power Lines.2 N. H. SLAIOHTKK and W. V. WOLFK. The fundamental requirements of a telephone circuit are outlined briefly and translated into the terms of the power line carrier telephone problem. Considerable data on transmission line characteristics at carrier frequencies are presented, which clearly show the magnitude of the transmission problem and the best frequency values to employ. The advantages of using the “metallic circuit” arrangement rather than the commonly employed “ground return” arrangement are emphasized."
"IN this paper, a simplified mathematical treatment of the theory of high frequency amplifiers is presented, and the theory is verified by experiment. This method of mathematical analysis provides a ready means of predicting the performance and action of an amplifier from a knowledge of the fundamental constants of its circuit and places the design of high frequency amplifiers on a precise and rational basis. The paper also includes a description of various methods for quantitatively determining the amount of amplification at high frequencies."
"Note: The electromagnets described are confined to relays, although the principles involved apply as well to selector magnets, clutch magnets and electromagnets in general. A treatment from the viewpoint of the telephone engineer is given of the important considerations which determine the design of the magnetic parts of relays and the economics of the winding dimensions. A knowledge of these factors as well as of the general considerations which are discussed is of great importance in the selection and application of relays to the telephone system. The operating and economic importance to the Bell System of the great number of relays required in the operation of the plant has been described in a previous paper.1"
"THE study of the vowel sounds presents a problem which has interested scientists and scholars in varied fields. A knowledge of their nature is of fundamental importance not only in communication engineering but also in acoustic science, phonetics and vocal music. From the earliest theories and the rough experiments of Willis (1829) and Helmholtz (1859) to the later measurements of D. C. Miller (191(5) steady progress has been made toward the accurate determination of their characteristics."
"DURING recent years, the study of atmospheric conditions and their bearing on various industrial problems from the standpoint both of their effects on human efficiency and on manufacturing processes, is a matter that has received much attention, and the use of air conditioning systems, which have been developed in the last few years, has resulted in greatly improved working conditions, as well as in increased outputs of manufactured products of better quality than obtainable when air conditioning was not employed. It is not so well appreciated, perhaps, that atmospheric conditions have a material effect upon the operation of intricate electrical and mechanical apparatus, such as those found in telephone systems."
"The theorem gives the most general form of the driving-point impedance of any network composed of a finite number of self-inductances, mutual inductances, and capacities. This impedance is a pure reactance with a number of resonant and anti-resonant frequencies which alternate with each other. Any such impedance may be physically realized (provided resistances can be made negligibly small) by a network consisting of a number of simple resonant circuits (inductance and capacity in series) in parallel or a number of simple anti-resonant circuits (inductance and capacity in parallel) in series. Formulas are given for the design of such networks. The variation of the reactance with frequency for several simple circuits is shown by curves. The proof of the theorem is based upon the solution of the analogous dynamical problem of the small oscillations of a system about a position of equilibrium with no frictional forces acting."
"ELECTROMAGNETIC waves of every frequency from 104 to 1020 exist; they can be generated and perceived; their frequencies in nearly every instance can be measured; their actions and reactions with matter can be studied. This brief statement is the synthesis of a great multitude of inventions, experiments and observations upon phenomena of extraordinary diversity and variety. When Herschel in 1800 carried a thermometer across the fan-shaped beam of colored light into which a sunbeam was resolved by a prism, and observed that the effect of the sunbeam on the mercury column did not cease when it passed beyond the red edge of the fan, he proved that the boundary of the spectrum beyond the red is imposed by the limitations of the eye and not by a deficiency of rays. Almost at the same time Ritter found that the power of the violet rays to affect salts of silver was shared by invisible rays beyond the violet edge of the beam. Maxwell developed the notion of electromagnetic waves from his theory of electricity and magnetism, and described some of the properties they should have; and the light-waves and the infra-red and ultraviolet rays were found to have some of these properties, while the outstanding discordances were explained away by Maxwell's successors. Hertz and many others built apparatus for producing Maxwell's waves with frequencies far below those of light, and apparatus for detecting them, with consequences known to everyone. Years after X-rays and gamma-rays were discovered emanating from discharge-tubes and disintegrating atoms, Laue proved that these too are waves, lying beyond the visible spectrum in the range of high frequencies. Radiations emerging from collapsing atoms and radiations diverging from wireless towers; waves conveying the solar heat and waves carrying the voice; rays which disrupt atoms by extracting their electrons, rays which alter atoms by rearranging their electrons, rays which almost ignore atoms altogether, were successively discovered or created; and all these radiations were brought into one class, and identified with light."
"An apparatus has been developed by means of which it is possible to measure and obtain a permanent record of the frequency components of an electric current wave. The device has two frequency ranges: 20 to 1250 cycles and 80 to 5000 cycles; the amount of power required does not in general exceed 500 microwatts; and the time necessary for making a record is about 5 minutes. An attachment is provided which permits of the making of simultaneous harmonic analyses of two complex waves in the same length of time. In principle, the process consists in feeding the complex wave to be analyzed into a selective network, the essential feature of which is a sharply tuned circuit whose frequency of tuning is controlled by varying the capacitance in small steps with a pneumatic apparatus similar to that in a player piano. A maximum of response of the circuit occurs at each frequency of tuning which coincides with a component of the complex wave. An automatic photographic recorder of the response to each frequency of tuning is provided by means of which the frequency and magnitude of each component of the complex wave may be obtained. For convenience of operation, an automatic control apparatus is provided, so that it is only necessary to connect the complex source or sources to be analyzed and press a starting button. The completed record of the analysis is delivered after the machine has passed through the entire range of frequencies. The application has so far been principally to problems in the communication field such as the analysis of performance and distortion at audio frequencies of vacuum tube and mechanical oscillators and amplifiers, analysis of complex telephone waves and speech sounds, and the effect on a complex wave of transmission through electrical and acoustic apparatus. In the power field many applications are obvious, such as for example, quantitative comparison as to frequency content of the voltage and current supplied to and delivered by transformers, voltage and magnetic flux studies in generators and motors, commutation, and the effect of wave-shapes in power transmission line problems and control apparatus."
"This paper considers two fundamental factors entering into the maximum speed of transmission of intelligence by telegraph. These factors are signal shaping and choice of codes. The first is concerned with the best wave shape to be impressed on the transmitting medium so as to permit of greater speed without undue interference either in the circuit under consideration or in those adjacent, while the latter deals with the choice of codes which will permit of transmitting a maximum amount of intelligence with a given number of signal elements. It is shown that the wave shape depends somewhat on the type of circuit over which intelligence is to be transmitted and that for most cases the optimum wave is neither rectangular nor a half cycle sine wave as is frequently used but a wave of special form produced by sending a simple rectangular wave through a suitable network. The impedances usually associated with telegraph circuits are such as to produce a fair degree of signal shaping when a rectangular voltage wave is impressed. Consideration of the choice of codes show that while it is desirable to use those involving more than two current values, there are limitations which prevent a large number of current values being used. A table of comparisons shows the relative speed efficiencies of various codes proposed. It is shown that no advantages result from the use of a sine wave for telegraph transmission as proposed by Squier and others2 and that their arguments are based on erroneous assumptions."
"The Auditory Masking of One Pure Tone By Another and Its Probable Relation to the Dynamics of the Inner Ear.1 R. L. WEGEL and C. E. LANK. The authors used an air damped telephone receiver supplied with variable currents of two frequencies and determined tlie amount of masking by tones of frequency 200 to 3500 for frequencies from 150 to 5000. Except when the frequencies are so close together as to produce beats the masking is greatest for tones nearly alike. When the masking tone is loud it masks tones of higher frequency better than those of frequency lower than itself. If the masking tone is introduced into the opposite ear the effect occurs only by virtue of conduction through the bones of the head."
"The past year in the motion picture industry has been characterized more by improvements in processes and equipments previously available rather than by outstanding new development in the art. The advantages of standardization in other older industries are familiar to most of us; our own Society has through its active committees made excellent progress, not only in this country but by establishing relations with Europeans interested in similar work. In Germany especial effort toward the standardization of sprockets has been made1, the Kinotechnische Gesellschaft functioning in a manner generally similar to our own Standards Committee and the English Committee on Standard Measurements."
"AMERICA stands supreme in the production of motion pictures. Whether this supremacy will be retained is, of course, a matter for future decision. There is, however, nothing in sight to indicate in the slightest degree any offset to existing conditions."
"ENGLAND'S being a so-called free trade country, we receive and use a large proportion of imported projectors, some manufactured under metre and some under standard dimensions. The first defect discovered by the exhibitor or his operator is that the spool spindles only accommodate spools made for, or by, the same manufacturer, and if the installation has machines of different makes, the operator has to see that film reels 1, 3 and 5 are on one type of spool, and reels 2, 4 and 6 on the other. He also requires two rewinders accommodate same, or must have the spool spindles altered on one of the machines to match the other, which is the usual course adopted."
"1. A tank of MQ developer, used for the development of motion picture negative film suddenly began to give excessive fog. The developer had been in use for about six weeks in a 65 gallon soapstone tank but had not developed its normal footage of film (about 500 feet per gallon). The next lot of developer in the same tank gave excessive fog after three weeks use when 5000 feet of film had been developed. The solution smelled badly and the odor of hydrogen sulphide was distinguishable. Further tests, as deseribed later, confirmed the presence of sulphide."
"SPECIAL, care is necessary when handling motion picture film at high temperatures when high humidities usually prevail in order to insure that the sensitiveness of the film emulsion shall remain unimpaired before exposure and that the latent image shall he retained after exposure and before development. Special treatment is also necessary if development of the exposed film must be conducted at temperatures above 70°F. while adequate precautions must be taken during storage of the developed film in warm climates otherwise the keeping qualities of the film will be affected."
"TWO years ago at the Spring Convention a paper was presented by A. C. Hardy and L. A. Jones on the graininess of photographic materials used in the Motion Picture Industry."
"As a paper on the technical side of the Phonofilm was read before your Convention at Atlantic City eighteen months ago, we believe it unnecessary to go very deeply into that phase of the subject now. You will perhaps be more interested in the advance made during that period of time."
"The point that will at once attract the attention of the visitor to the projection rooms to-day, is the great number of men engaged in handling the projectors who are compelled to wear glasses, a much higher proportion being found in this craft than generally found in other occupations."
"The attraction of light is inherent in the nature of nearly all living things. The butterfly dances in the sunlight; the moth is attracted to the glow of the evening lamp; fish are lured to the surface by the flare of the night fisherman's torch."
"In Various papers presented to this society by the writer during past years, the fact has been emphasized that every operation in the production of a photoplay must perforce depend very largely for its effect upon the final buyer, the public, upon the manner in which it is projected to the theater screen."
"We have recently made a series of tests with several translucent and semi-transparent shutters and we have selected from among these shutters three tests which will best serve to illustrate the effect which is produced on the screen when using shutters of this kind. The equipment used in making these tests consisted of a G. E. Incandescent Lamphouse, using a 900 watt Mazda Lamp at 30 amperes with cinephor condensing system. A line screen was placed at the aperture and focused on a translucent screen, using a cinephor 7.75 E. F. No. 2 lens. The screen image was 18½×24½ in. The image was photographed from the rear of the screen and we have prepared a series of illustrations from the photographs taken."
"The extensive use of motion pictures in the schools is a very recent development. Experiments on the production of motion pictures, having for their purpose to convey scientific information, were undertaken in the early stages of the industry. Since the invention of motion pictures, numerous attempts have been made to produce educational films on a large scale and introduce them into the schools. The use of motion pictures in the schools, however, has not by any means kept pace with their use in the theater. While theatrical motion pictures have grown until they constitute one of the most extensive forms of recreation of the American people, educational motion pictures are still on trial, and are used only to supplement, in a limited and irregular way, the usual forms of instruction."
"The purpose of this paper is to suggest to the practical motion picture photographer tests which he might apply to the objectives of his equipment. For the most part, the following material on taking lenses is furnished by Dr. F. M. Bishop, while that on projection lenses is taken from a paper by Dr. G. W. Moffitt."
"The “Research Laboratory” referred to above consists of 105 theaters in the Posts and Stations of the Army, presenting the widest variety of projection problems ever assembled under one management. When the U. S. Army Motion Picture Service was organized for the purpose of operating these theaters on a centralized and business like basis, it became the task of that service to solve these varied problems. The unit which I am about to describe to you is one of the things which had to be developed before these problems could be solved. This unit is now in use in practically every Post and Station of the Army in the continental United States and Panama. Altho many are equipped with earlier types than the one here illustrated, the basic principles are the same."
"THE illumination on the screen from a motion picture projector is dependent mainly on two things: the source of light and the method of utilizing the light from this source. This statement sounds, off hand, as though it gave opportunity for limitless discussion and tabulation of numerous light sources and optical arrangements; but a glance at the history of motion picture projection shows quite the opposite."
"RESEARCHES in physiological optics have shown that the eye is sensitive to three primary color sensations and that the appearance of any hue may be produced by observing light containing one or more of these three primary color sensations. These primary sensations are red, (Fig. 1)1; green, (Fig. 16); and blue, (Figs. 11 and 12). Addition of the sensations of red and green gives the sensation of yellow, of red and blue gives a purple ranging from a very blue purple to a reddish magenta, and the combination of blue and green gives a blue green."
"THE words stereoscopy and stereoscopic are derived from the Greek words Stereo and Skopein which means “solid” and “to see.” A stereoscopic picture is a picture that represents a solid aspect of an object similar to the impression gained when the object is looked at with both eyes in the natural way."
"WHILE it has been known for many years that the sensitiveness of photographic materials falls when the gelatin is allowed to absorb moisture by exposure to humid air and for a few special purposes, such as in astronomical work, precautions have been taken to avoid this effect, it is probably not too widely known among users of cine films that the effect is large enough to be of practical importance under adverse conditions. It was, therefore, thought worth while to present to you some quantitative data obtained in the Redpath Laboratory of E. I. duPont deNemours & Co. showing the magnitude of the effect observed with a variety of materials, more especially since our observations show that the phenomenon is a very complex one. In all cases, the results given are the averages of a number of careful independent determinations and it should be stated that equilibrium was not considered to have been attained until the films had been exposed to the various atmospheres for at least 24 hours."
"IN MY PAPER at the Ottawa convention I treated a friction feed developing machine in which the film was fed spirally through the various units. A casual observation of the field has led me to believe that by far the largest percentage of machines in use today are what I term straight line machines. I have coined this name because in these machines the film is fed along a series of loops in the same perpendicular plane. (Fig. No. 1 illustrates a straight line tube machine. Fig.No. 2 illustrates a straight line tank machine.)"
"WHEN the writer first undertook the preparation of this paper, he proposed to call it “Difficulties Encountered in the Attempt to Standardize Theater Screen Surfaces, Theater Screen Illumination, and Auditorium Illumination.” When, however, the first draft was finished it became apparent that (after all) the three items all summed up in one, or very nearly so, so I have taken the liberty of changing the title to its present form."
"THE work dealt with in the present note was mainly confined to an investigation of uncoated, unprocessed standard perforated motion picture film support which was specially prepared for these tests. The apparatus employed consisted of the following: A. An elongation and strength testing machine with automatic recording device. B. A fold tester. C. A scratch tester."
"THE Standardization Committee of the Motion Picture Chamber of Commerce, made up of agencies that are interested in developing the motion picure service in the non-theatrical field, was formed for the purpose of setting up standards for the efficient operation of the portable motion picture projector. It is the purpose of this Committee to set up operating standards to meet conditions which usually occur in lodge rooms, churches, schools and other places in which the non-theatrical exhibitor is called upon to show film."
"CINEMATOGRAPHY is unique in offering the possibility of apparently magnifying or diminishing the dimension called time. By taking the pictures slowly and projecting them at normal speed, the time in which an event appears to happen is diminished. This is very easy to do and examples where the whole growth of a plant or the construction of a building appears to take place in a few moments were made years ago and are familiar to all."
"THE FILMO Automatic Cine-Camera, and Cine-Projector manufactured by the Bell & Howell Company are one of the types of machines using 16 m/m film. At the Atlantic City meeting a year ago the symposium on portable projectors included several papers having to do with machines using this film, and as the transactions since published contain a transcript and discussion of the papers, including reference to the uses and potential market for apparatus of this kind no attempt will be made to enlarge upon this phase of the 16 m/m equipment, but only a brief description of some of the important mechanical features of the FILMO instruments will be touched upon."
"IT IS not my intention to present a technical nor mathematical discussion of this subject but rather to present a somewhat simple and practical method by which comparatively short focal length motion picture projection lenses may be compared. For example, a motion picture theatre owner, manager or projectionist hears about some new projection lens which he may buy at a certain cost and then just as he is about to purchase it, another lens at double the cost say, is shown him. Which shall he buy? How can he determine whether or not the latter lens is worth twice as much as the first? How is one better than the other? In other words, he should have some practical means of determining under his own particular conditions, of screen, length of throw, size of picture, etc., which lens to purchase."
"THE following is a brief account of results obtained with relay condensing systems in practical use. For the principles involved I have to refer to the paper given on the same subject at the Ottawa meeting."
"THE title of the paper which I am about to read—“Is the Continuous Projector commercially practical?” was suggested to Mr. Bowen and myself by the extremely large number of inquiries we have received and the great number of statements which have been made during the last few years regarding the practical possibilities of a continuous projector."
"TO ANY industry the standardization of its products is important, but to an industry dependent on scientific accuracy, the standardization of the vital points which govern its efficient working is most essential. It is almost inconceivable that after so many years of existence, involving the expenditure and use of such colossal sums of money, no definite standard has been universally adopted in the film industry."
"A DESCRIPTION of the following apparatus in use in the Film Developing Department of the Research Laboratory of the Eastman Kodak Company. 1. An Apparatus for Making Motion Picture Titles. 2. Continuous Film Viewing Machine. 3. Semi-Automatic Sensitometer. 4. Safety Devices."
"An analysis of the physical properties of motion picture film is attempted. The significance of the various factors involved in the tests and their relations, one to the other, are discussed. Some effort is made to relate the tensile strength of film base with its strength in motion picture film projection. Theoretical consideration is given to the relations existing between the plasticity of film base and the viscosity of its solutions. The effect of different conditions upon projection strength forms an important part of the work. Practical interpretation and application of the principles involved, are included in the study."
"THERE are in the presentation of motion pictures, today, defects that can not be denied by people connected with the industry, although they are not always apparent to the general public, or at least are considered unavoidable and therefore accepted without criticism."
"THE projectionist in the booth of a modern motion picture theatre usually has numerous duties to perform—among which the most important is that of maintaining a uniformly well lighted picture on the screen. This can only be accomplished and the effect on the screen will be an exact reproduction of the origina scene only if the light source in the lamp house operates at a constant value."
"A MOTION picture title may be defined as the reading matter interspersed between the scenes in order to assist in a better understanding of the picture. As a result of refinements in scenario writing, and in acting, the modern photoplay requires less verbal description than formerly, the tendency being to make the picture “speak for itself” as far as possible. This cutting down of the quantity of title matter has resulted, however, in a marked improvement in quality, especially in the direction of more artistic lettering and the addition of suitable backgrounds, especially in color."
