"The present paper is presented as a contribution to the educational activities of the Institute. Education is often an art and never completely a science. With respect to ions and electrons the science is new and the development of the art scarcely begun, — an art that is bound to undergo rapid evolution. The value of the present paper at best can only exist temporarily."
"In selecting subjects which would become the major study of the committee during the year, an effort was made to choose those which seemed to be lagging in progress because of unorganized attention, or to be only imperfectly coordinated and recorded because of their relatively recent development. Two subjects were chosen, one on each of these bases, and subcommittees (with chairmen, H. B. Brooks and C. M. Jansky respectively), were appointed to make the survey."
"The paper deals mainly with the accuracy of instruments used under maintained conditions of load. Well designed voltmeters, ammeters, and wattmeters show very small errors due to self-heating and changes in ambient temperatures. Iron-vane ammeters are described which have small errors due to direct-current hysteresis and changes in wave-forms."
"The quadrant electrometer has long been recognized as a valuable instrument for measuring power in a-c. circuits, especially at low values of the power factor. Nevertheless, it has been used but little. This has been caused to some extent by the fact that Maxwell's treatment does not hold for all electrometers, and by the difficulty of determining its constant with alternating current. In this paper, the author has discussed the theory of the instrument from the point of view of power measurements and has reduced its general equation to a simple form. He has shown how its constants may be determined with continuous current, and that these constants also apply in a-c. power measurement. He has checked the theoretical calculations by experiments. Data of the determination of the constants of a given instrument with continuous current are given in the paper, as well as examples of the use of the instrument in the measurement of power in a number of alternating circuits having different characteristics."
"The paper describes a series of tests directed to the evolution of a loud speaker, free from resonance. Various types of sound source were tried. For the most part horns were avoided. Diaphragms, when employed, were either so light and stiff that their natural resonance was above the essential frequency range, or so flexible that their resonance was below the lowest important acoustic frequency. Best results were obtained with the latter type, and it is shown on theoretical grounds that a small diaphragm, the motion of which is controlled by inertia only, and located in an opening in a large flat wall, will give an output sound pressure proportional to the actuating force, independent of frequency. It should be possible to make an ideal sound reproducer on this principle. A practical loud speaker which approximately fulfills the above conditions has nolo been evolved. It consists of a flexibly-supported paper cone actuated by a coil in a magnetic field and provided with a baffle. As compared with ordinary loud speakers, this instrument radiates much more of the low tones and more of the very high frequencies which makes for clearer articulation. The extension of the range of response of the loud speaker to higher and lower frequencies, makes defects in the remainder of the system more noticeable, particularly roughness and blasting due to overworked amplifiers. It is, therefore, important that the amplifier used with the new loud speaker be designed to have ample capacity."
"It is believed that the report of the Committee on Application to Marine Work for this year may be said to be the most comprehensive of any similar reports for the past few years."
"High-frequency induction furnaces have been used for some time for the laboratory preparation of special alloys on a relatively small scale, and, to a limited extent, on a commercial scale. High-frequency power has, in general, been secured from spark-gap oscillation generators. Recently the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company installed a plant having a nominal capacity of 20 tons per month, in which alloys are being produced in high-frequency induction furnaces supplied with power from a 100-kw., 5000-cycle inductor-type alternator. Zirconium silicate finds extensive use for furnace linings and thermal insulation. Alloys of great purity, which meet unusual and severe requirements, are being produced at a cost which compares favorably with that of oridnary commercial materials of the same nominal composition but having much inferior properties."
"C. F. Scott: It happened to be my lot to be associated with Mr. Tesla in his early work in the development of his polyphase motor. I remember very well his statement that his motors were of two kinds: the synchronous motor, a splendid motor to run; and the induction motor, which he called a torque motor, that would start. The difficulty with the synchronous motor was first to get it started and second to excite it. The difficulty with the induction motor, primarily, was the lagging or magnetizing or exciting current which it required. That lagging current was a mysterious sort of thing; it was the practise to attribute anything we didn't understand in those early days to “lag.”"
"H. A. Frederick: In reading this paper one cannot but wish that some definite standard or method of rating might have been employed, so that the results of this investigation of many types of loud speakers might be placed quantitatively in definite positions on some scale of merit. Since the authors, as pointed out in the paper, have not as yet been able to obtain satisfactory quantitative measurements with their best designs, the readers are not in a position to judge the accomplishment. While these measurements are not simple and are liable to be misleading, unless very carefully made, still the same comment applies to qualitative judgments by the ear alone."
"W. M. Hoen: I think it reasonable to compare the present steam shovel with the development of the mine hoist. The shovel has a little harder job, but it seems to me that in the early days, in electrifying steam hoists, we were up against a difficult proposition. The hoist manufacturers were building and selling steam hoists, so the electrical manufacturer had to furnish equipment which did not do justice to itself. Mine operators also attacked this problem with more or less success. Today the hoist manufacturers have redesigned their equipment as a unit with the electrical apparatus."
"A. O. Austin (by letter): There has apparently been a material improvement in potheads for high-voltage cable. There is no reason why a pothead cannot be made having any is quite similar to that shown in Mr. Eby's paper. This pothead was used for running tests on joints and cable for The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company."
"C. H. Ingalls: For the past twelve years, the Meter Division of the Boston Edison Company has corrected for the temperature errors of its portable test meters through thermometers permanently installed in the meters. A recent occurrence illustrates how the accuracy of an uncompensated meter may be affected by certain abnormal temperature conditions."
"H. W. Smith: The paper by Mr. Burnham is valuable in that it gives us actual tests on the over-voltages due to over-speeding of waterwheel generators. This problem has also been encountered by the Niagara Falls Power Company who have had lightning arresters fail due to the rise in voltage on dropping of load. Tests have shown that with load suddenly dropped, the generator voltage has increased from 12,000 to 21,000 volts. There was an instantaneous increase up to about 30 per cent above normal voltage. An over-voltage relay has been used to correct this difficulty, and the primary relay of the standard induction feeder regulator has been used as the voltage relay. This relay operates in about ten cycles of a 25-cycle system, and has been set to operate at 30 per cent above normal voltage."
"J. B. Whitehead: Those of us who have had occasion to measure small values of dielectric loss with the quadrant electrometer instrument, know of the apparent facility and convenience of that instrument. I say “apparent” because we also know that we soon run into many entirely unexpected and apparently inexplicable phenomena in connection with the instrument. In the literature we find a great deal on the instrument and think we will be able to clear up our difficulties. As we go on, however, we find that the points of view of the several people who have written on the quadrant electrometer often differ. The several authors introduce different constants and we are left with a large number of constants, whose relative importance we are unable to determine easily."
"Vladimir Karapetoff: A general solution of two-phase to six-phase transformation is shown in Pig. 1 presented with this discussion. O a, O b, O c, O d, O f, O g, are six “star” voltages desired to be had on the six-phase side. As a simplest case, imagine a six-phase synchronous motor adjusted to run at unity power factor and used as a load on a two-phase line. Then the foregoing six voltages may be considered, as those across the individual armature phases (star connected) of the motor. The problem of phase transformation consists in connecting the vertices of the hexagon by lines of two mutually perpendicular directions. Starting with point a, there are only three possible independent beginnings, viz., a b, a c, and a d. Beginning with a b, we have to draw a b, g c, f d, for phase I, and a f, b d, for phase II. This will give the figure drawn by dotted lines and identical with that shown in Boyajian's Fig. 1.2 Beginning with a c, gives again a Φ figure shown in full lines. Beginning with a d, gives an identical Φ figure drawn in “dash and dot.” Thus, the Φ transformation is not one of several possible transformations, but the only possible perfect transformation."
"The well known and generally accepted law, to the effect that when a circuit does external work it increases its stored or potential energy by an equal amount, called by some the Kelvin law, seems to be only an electrical version of a more general law in dynamics. As the writer showed some years ago, the usual versions (which are man-made and for which nature is not responsible) of the electrical law need some revisions."
"With the development of the two-filament headlight lamp, as illustrated in Fig. 1, the art of motor-vehicle lighting has advanced a step in the solution of the glare evil. Several new equipments which have been designed for its use, have recently been granted the necessary State approval required before a new headlighting device may be generally applied. Furthermore, several automobile manufacturers have supplied their new cars with headlight equipment which uses the two-filament lamp."
"On August 11 at Swanton, Ohio, 19 miles west of Toledo, the last of 9500 splices was made in the New York-Chicago telephone cable, the world's longest telephone cable. The over-all length of the cable is 861 miles, 717 miles being supported overhead by 36,000 poles and 144 miles being underground. It is nearly twice as long as the next longest cable of 450 miles from Boston to Washington. The new cable will, it is expected, be open for service in about a month."
"Plans are completed for the Pacific Coast Convention which will be held at the Olympic Hotel, Seattle, Wash., September 15–19. The convention promises to be an excellent one. The technical papers are of very high character and deal principally with transmission, distribution, research and education."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the administrative year beginning August 1, 1925, was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Thursday, August 6."
"The fourth National Exposition of power and mechanical engineering will be held at Grand Central Palace, New York City, from November 30th through December 5th, 1925."
"On October 21–23 inclusive, the American Welding Society will hold its Fall meeting in Boston."
"The tentative program for the Safety Congress to be held in Cleveland, Ohio, September 28 to October 2, 1925 gives much for anticipation. There is no doubt but that this coming meeting will be the greatest safety gathering ever held, and the exhibit of safety devices will be most comprehensive and interesting."
"All efforts are being directed towards two major features; First — Technical Sessions."
"Work covered by the 1925 session of the Conference Internationale des Grands Reseaux Electriques was, in outline, as follows:"
"The program of speakers for the intensive one-week course in chemical engineering fundamentals for college students, to be held in conjunction with the Tenth Exposition of Chemical Industries, Sept. 28th to Oct. 3rd at the Grand Central Palace, New York, is gradually nearing completion. Some of the leading authorities in their respective fields in the chemical industry and associated groups, will lecture at the Students' Course at the Chemical Exposition."
"Following the announcement that a survey of air transportation would be undertaken jointly by the Department of Commerce and the American Engineering Council, the executive secretary of the Council, L. W. Wallace, issued a statement of progress."
"A new book, published in German by Verlag von M. Krayn, (1925, 337 pages, cloth) is a work dealing principally with the subject of radio from the popular broadcasting point of view with chapters on antennas, detectors, theory of transmission, loud speakers, vacuum tubes, etc."
"The following revised sections of the Standards are now available:"
"A selected group of students who have stood high in the first two years of their electrical engineering course at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology will, beginning with the next academic year (that is when they enter upon their junior work), be given the privilege of greater independence of work than is usual in an engineering school curriculum."
"C. C. Stewart of the Oklahoma Gas & Electric Company at Drumright has been appointed manager of the Norman offices of that company."
"Atlanta Dinner and Annual Meeting. The following officers were elected: Chairman, W. E. Gathright; Vice-Chairman, H. N. Pye; Secretary-Treasurer, W. F. Oliver; Directors, E. H. Ginn and E. Van Hook. July 15. Attendance 20."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"The history of Charles Frederick Chandler's life is an essential part of the history of chemistry and chemical engineering in the United States during the last sixty years. In the early fifties, when young Chandler entered the Lawrence Scientific School at Harvard, chemical science in England and in this country was practically a monopoly of the druggists. Those were the days when the druggists in England were called chemists, and the name has persisted down to the present day. Young Chandler had to leave the Lawrence Scientific School and go to Professor Woehler of Göttingen, in order to study the science of chemistry. Neither Harvard nor any other college in the United States was equipped in those days for training students in chemistry. When Chandler returned in 1857, decorated with a Göttingen Ph. D. degree, nobody seemed anxious to engage his services. He finally found some odd jobs with the oil men of New Bedford, analyzing their whale oil. His old friend, Professor Joy of Union College, needed his assistance in the College laboratory, but the trustees were unwilling to appropriate a salary for an assistant in chemistry after they had appropriated five hundred dollars for a janitor of the chemical laboratory. The young doctor of philosophy took the vacant position of janitor. The privilege of giving scientific assistance to the professor of chemistry attracted him to the position of janitor. Nothing can describe better the state of the Chemical science in this country in those days than this beginning of Chandler's scientific career. Nothing can describe better the latent energy of the young doctor of chemistry than his willingness to start his career as a janitor."
"Louis A. Ferguson, twenty-first President of the Institute, was born in Dorchester, Massachusetts, August 19, 1867. His education included several years in the Boston Public Schools and the Dorchester High School and the Electrical Engineering Course at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, from which he was graduated in 1888 with the degree of B. S. His thesis on the “Relations Between Candle Power, Voltage, and Energy Consumption of Incandescent Lamps” turned his thoughts definitely to the Central Station field and he went directly from the Institute to the underground distribution department of the Chicago Edison Company."
"Last month a memorable conference upon power development in New England was held at Worcester. Under the chairmanship of Samuel Ferguson, more than 600 delegates from business and utility organizations heard Owen D. Young, Martin J. Insull and Dexter P. Cooper discuss the value of power pooling, of interconnection and of the engineering development of the electrical resources of the Northeast. Thus a new point of contact between power producers, distributors and users was found. The sound economic lessons set forth were broadcasted by press and radio and served effectively to explain to the public at large the meaning of active and important tendencies in electrical supply. Conceived in connection with a broad movement among state governors to unite New Englanders for the common good, the conference achieved a triumph in economic publicity and made no little headway against the doctrine of limiting power pooling by political barriers."
"A simple and practical method has been developed for investigating certain important classes of dynamic systems, as represented, for instance, by a power system comprising synchronous or induction generating units, with prime movers, connected through transmission lines to receiving apparatus of the same character. The behavior of individual units, of course, can also be investigated, — such as the important case of determining the current pulsation of a synchronous motor driving a reciprocating compressor; or, purely mechanical systems involving moving masses and resilient members, such as beams, bus bars, etc., under the influence of suddenly applied load. In the present paper, the method is described and its application to a few of the possible cases is illustrated. The method is, to have an “equivalent electrical circuit” solve the problem, and the oscillograph plot the solution. The idea is based on the fact that if the differential equation for an electric circuit is identical with that for the dynamic mechanical system in question, then the corresponding electrical quantities can be taken to represent quantitatively the actual mechanical quantities. The equivalent circuit can be easily set up, and oscillographic records of the voltages and currents constitute the plotted solutions. The chief value of the scheme lies not only in one's being able to easily solve a given, complicated, problem, but also in the facility with which the effect of change in design factors may be determined. The method is capable of considerable extension. Its application is limited only by the extent to which circuit elements of the proper characteristics can be found. The treatment given here considers only those cases which invoice the circuit elements L, C and R, and in which these are constant."
"RESEARCH and engineering are inseparable, therefore, research must be a part of engineering education. This fundamental fact has been eclipsed during the first quarter of the present century by practical influences of major importance. These influences are the awakening of the engineering profession to the fact that much of the advancement in engineering knowledge has been made at the expense of the general culture of the members of the profession, the demand for men to occupy a large number of subordinate engineering positions, and the addition of new engineering knowledge which must be included in an engineering course."
"Piezo-electricity is a phenomenon which has been known for many years but which is having some remarkable new applications. Certain crystals undergo a slight expansion or contraction when an electrical voltage is applied to them and, vice versa, produce a slight voltage when compressed or pulled. A piece of quartz crystal 1 or 2 inches long has a high natural frequency of the same order as the frequencies of currents used in radio communication. It has been found that the frequency of vibration of the piece of quartz is extraordinarily constant and that it is very useful as a radio standard. In association with a small electron tube it acts as an oscillator or generator of a current the frequency of which is that of mechanical vibration of the piece of crystal. As the frequency thus produced is accompanied by numerous harmonics, the crystal is a standard giving several radio-frequencies. It is thus a remarkable supplement to the wave meters which have hitherto been used as standards of radio-frequency."
"The purpose of this paper is to draw attention to the desirability of the development of our water-power resources on a comprehensive economic basis and to discuss more particularly some of the features of steam-power in connection with the economic development of water-power. The limitations of the cost curves frequently used in comparing the costs of water- and steam-power are pointed out and a simple method is given whereby the minimum cost of power may be found for an assumed water-power development with auxiliary steam power. Some data for a practical case on a large scale are given in order to show just what the use of auxiliary steam-power may mean in the reduction of capital expenditures and generating costs."
"About sixty years ago, Professor Clark Maxwell, propounded the conception that specific inductive capacity is a quality of the nature of elasticity and that permeability is of the nature of density. This is the generally accepted view of the present day."
"THE double transmission lines now being built by the City of Tacoma, as part of its new Cushman Power Development, connecting Power House No. 1 and No. 2, (future) with the Cushman Substation in Tacoma, reaches 44 mi. from the North Fork of the Skokomish River in the foot hills of the Olympic Mountains around Hood Canal, across North and Henderson Bays and over The Narrows to Tacoma."
"THE name of this committee has been changed from “Telegraphy and Telephony Committee” to “Committee on Communication.” This was done in accordance with a recommendation of the special committee who reviewed the technical activities of the Institute. The Communication Committee feels that this is a desirable change in name."
"TWO papers on electrochemical subjects have been presented at meetings of the Institute by members of this Committee. The first of these entitled “Electrometallurgical Applications” by J. L. McK. Yardley was presented at the Pacific Coast Convention in October 1924. This paper dealt with developments in the utilization of electrical power based upon fundamental principles of electrochemistry and the relation of the electrical engineer to the chemist and metallurgist. The second paper, by G. W. Vinal and G. N. Schramm, was entitled “Storage Battery Electrolytes.” This was presented at the A. I. E. E. Midwinter Convention, February 1925. Measurements to determine the effect of a wide variety of impurities in the electrolyte were summarized and a proposed specification for using sulphuric acid in storage batteries presented for discussion."
"THE annual report of the Committee on General Power Applications has been divided into three parts, namely — an account of the Committee's activities in the past year and two appendices which are believed to contain data of interest and value to the membership."
"Heretofore the subject of universal motors has not received very much publicity but the field for these motors has been increasing so rapidly that a great deal more attention is now being given to them. The paper endeavors to bring out points of general interest rather than going into the fundamental design and other details. The term “universal” as applied to this type of motor is defined, together with a description of the operating characteristics in general. There are two types of universal motors; namely, compensated and non-compensated, both of which are described as to general design, construction and applications. The question of ratings and limitations of the universal features of both types of motors brings out some interesting points. Commutation and mechanical balance are questions demanding a great deal of attention due to the comparatively high speeds at which these motors usually operate. Some of the applications best suited to the universal motor are described, showing the possibilities of this type of motor when properly designed, manufactured and applied."
"The temperature rises of dynamo electric machines, in changing from one steady thermal state to another, follow an exponential law of the form 1 − ∊−βt, where 1/β is the thermal time constant, or the time required to attain 63. 2 per cent of the final change in temperature rise. It is shown here that while the winding temperature rise over room of self-cooled oil-immersed transformers follows this law only after a certain time has elapsed, quite accurate results may be obtained by calculating the time-temperature curves of the top oil temperature rise above room, and the winding temperature rise above top oil separately, since each follows the above exponential law quite closely, then adding them together to get the winding temperature rise above room at any time before conditions are constant. A procedure is explained in detail for calculating β, for either the lop oil rise or the winding rise above top oil from the weights of materials the iron and copper losses and the winding and top oil constant temperature rises at any given load. Comparisons of temperatures by test and calculation are presented."
"Attention is called to the need for voltage and power-factor regulating equipment on lines used for tying together large generating stations and for interconnection of systems. Such lines must be capable not only of transferring large amounts of energy in either direction, but must also be suitable for connecting generating sources operating at essentially equal voltages. The important characteristics of the three principal methods for voltage regulation on interconnecting lines, — namely, synchronous condensers, tap changing under load, and induction regulators, — are presented, discussed and compared. The comparison includes such factors as first cost (including installation) reliability, ease of operation, losses, effect on system power factor and losses, maintenance, adaptability to reversible energy transfer and ability to give close voltage regulation. The requirements of regulating equipment, particularly from the operator's standpoint, are discussed with the idea of bringing out the necessity of obtaining a high degree of reliability, ease of operation and flexibility to meet the various operating conditions. The fields of application of various methods of regulation are discussed, showing the advantages of each for different requirements and pointing out that in some cases the best solution of the problem lies in the application of a combination of two different methods of regulation to secure the best overall results. Brief descriptions of three installations (two of tap changing under load, and one of induction regulators) for voltage regulation and power factor control on lines of The Philadelphia Electric Company are included."
"An attempt to analyze or compare power-factor conditions shows how futile it is to employ the term “power factor.” Its use in most analyses requires too many qualifying appendages. As a result, when one has finished an analysis he wonders whether he should have used average or weighted power factor or whether either is the desirable unit."
"V. Karapetoff: The Diesel engine is essentially a constant-speed prime mover, and I should like to ask Mr. Thau about its application to the tug service, which, to me, is essentially a variable speed application, and also one involving a high slip, either in the electrical equipment or between the propeller and the churning water. With a d-c. drive, the Diesel engine can run at a constant speed, and the d-c. motor on the shaft can be controlled either by a series resistance or by a resistance in the field circuit. But I should like to know how this is done with a-c. drive, or is the a-c. drive not suitable for the tug service?"
"A. L. Mudge: An extremely interesting and important matter has been dealt with in this report, viz.: the limiting size of hydroelectric units. On the accompanying chart have been plotted the recommendations (included in the report) as made by three turbine builders, viz.: Newport News Shipbuilding Company, S. Morgan Smith, and Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company."
"R. E. Doherty: Anyone who has wrestled with differential equations in attempting to solve those of higher order must certainly be impressed with the possibility of having an electric circuit solve them, and an oscillograph plot the solution. This is precisely what Mr. Nickle's scheme does."
"A. P. Thoms: I do not see why so much stress should be placed on the dielectric loss in a joint. E. S. Lee, in a paper before the A. I. E. E. Midwinter Convention2, stated that the dielectric-strength test is the most important and the best test available at the present time; that indications are that the present standardized voltages should be increased and that increasing the application of the test two or three minutes is of doubtful value. The authors of this paper have used the standardized dielectric-strength test with the application increased a few minutes, and this test, according to Lee, is of doubtful value."
"P. P. Ashworth: From a consideration of the line diagrams in this paper and in other papers presented, it would seem advisable for the Institute to adopt a set of standard symbols to be used by authors in these diagrams. This would make for clarity and simplicity. In Fig. 15 of Mr. Kelley's paper the key to symbols is not given, thus detracting materially from the value of the diagram."
"A. H. Kehoe (communicated after adjournment): The formulas submitted to obtain the economical design of transformer spacing, transformer size and secondary conductor size, are based on a uniform density of load and a reasonable number of service points. These conditions are seldom even approximated in practise. The calculations assumed that the location of the transformers is such that the center of distribution of the particular load will be chosen. The fact usually ignored in such calculations is that any concentrated load equal to more than one-half of all the load being considered causes the electrical center of distribution to occur at the point of concentrated load. In practical distribution the majority of transformer locations will be at the concentrated loads and such an arrangement makes it uneconomical to space many of the distribution transformers at regular junction points on the mains. However, it allows a larger average size of distribution transformer and a smaller secondary conductor to be used than is possible with the same amount of load distributed uniformly over the territory. This condition also requires several different sizes of transformers to be used on the same system. It is fortunate that any proper secondary distribution-system costs for varying loads gives a flat “U” curve, as this, with concentrated loads mentioned above, makes it possible to use a small conductor and yet be able to add large future loads as they occur without having to change the mains."
"H. P. Miller, Jr.: The electric power industry is to be congratulated on the results obtained in studying the problem of interference with radio broadcasting and reception. The fact that this study was not required for the proper delivery of electric power shows how much the electric light and power companies have the interest of their respective communities at heart. Mr. Corbett has touched on the sources of interference due to high-frequency, continuous waves and states that little of this is attributable to the light and power companies. I should like, however, to point out an interesting case in which a power company innocently assists in distributing this type of interference over a fairly broad area."
"R. J. C. Wood: The outstanding point which struck me in this paper was the very small number of kilowatt-hours that are stored in the kinetic energy of the moving fly-wheel. Here is a 27,000-kv-a. unit and the total stored energy from full speed down to nothing is only 16 kw-hr. That seems to be such a small amount that it would not enter materially into any disturbances of the system, particularly, as the whole of that 16 kw-hr. is not used since the speed will not drop from full speed to zero; the fluctuation will be very small and the amount of energy re eased will correspond to it."
"G. S. Smith: I should like to ask Messrs. Gongwer and Darland if any provisions are being made to obtain data on the cable movement over the two main supports? This could easily be accomplished by means of a graphic instrument to keep a record of the sheave movement, together with temperature. A record of the wind velocity and its direction, as well as a log of ice loading or other unusual conditions, would be very desirable."
"The purpose of this paper is to derive a practical method of design, based upon the catenary formulas for spans whose supports are not at the same elevation. Furthermore, it is intended completely to formulate the method for applying it to any cable which is suspended freely or is uniformly loaded, as well as for obtaining its characteristics after the temperature or loading conditions of the cable have changed. This is a companion method to that presented before the Institute in 1917 by Professor F. K. Kirsten. Since certain changes in Professor Kirsten's original method seemed advisable to assure greater accuracy as well as to simplify calculations, these changed methods have been used in obtaining certain preliminary data needed for the method presented here."
"The paper, of which the following is a brief summary, was presented at the Convention of the A. I. E. E. in St. Louis on May 13–17, 1925."
"Consideration of the relations between power distribution and telephone systems is naturally involved in any comprehensive review of the problems of the rapidly expanding power-distribution networks in this country."
"This paper discusses briefly the distribution of harmonics in single-phase transformers and in three-phase banks of single-phase transformers. Two winding transformers or three-winding transformers, where the harmonic current exists in two of the windings only, are considered."
"With suitable cable, the successful operation of a high-tension cable system depends on the joints between consecutive lengths and this phase of high voltage cable installation must receive considerable attention in the near future."
"The conditions vary so greatly at the different mines that it is impossible to thoroughly cover this subject by discussions as to the many problems to be solved under varying conditions. This paper includes a brief discussion of some of the important problems of coal-mine electrification with descriptions of some concrete installations."
"The uses of white metals of medium and low melting points are varied and many. Most of these go by the indefinite names of babbitts and solders though varying greatly in composition and correct operating temperatures. Most of these fall within the temperature range of 600 to 950 deg. fahr."
"An illustrative electric service system is analyzed to show the importance of the distribution system for the benefit of those not familiar with distribution problems. The diversity factor and load factor are employed to show their effect on investment and losses."
"The object of this paper is to point out how protective measures which have been applied to a low-voltage distribution network can be utilized to improve the operating characteristics of the entire distribution system, as well as materially lower its installation cost."
"The largest single installation in water-power development ever undertaken is at Isle Maligne on the Saguenay River, Province of Quebec, Canada, where a total power-house installation of 540,000 h. p. is being made, of which 360,000 h. p. is completely, and 180,000 h. p. partially installed."
"A rational method is developed for the complete design of a transmission line. The most economical conductor diameter together with the most economical transmission line voltage are found from Kelvin's Law applied so as to include all cost factors which vary with the conductor area. Rational formulas are developed for finding conductor spacings for both single circuit and double circuit towers. A method is developed for finding the most economical tower heights and spacings. The influence of this method of design upon the line constants is pointed out. A worked out problem is presented to illustrate the use of the method proposed, and vector diagrams are included, showing the complete line performance at both the generator and receiver ends of the line."
"Electrical nomenclature is no doubt more precise and better defined than that in all allied branches of science, but the term self-inductance is a marked exception; it is, in fact, a jumble of a number of different things. Originally it seemed to be applied chiefly to a sort of impedance to the starting of a current, like inertia in starting a body to move. Then it was interpreted as a function of the energy stored by overcoming this impedance, like the m v2/2 energy of a moving body; then as a function of the number of flux lines in which this energy was stored. But physically it is a purely geometric quantity and is said to be a mere length, hence it should be entirely independent of any electrical or magnetic quantities, yet notwithstanding this it is generally defined purely electrically, as the flux per ampere."
"Several major improvements have recently been made in lamps for portable motion picture projectors. One of the most popular forms of projector is the suitcase type. A 400-watt, T-20 bulb lamps was the standard for this service. A greater wattage and higher screen illumination were often desired but the limited space available for the lamp made these impossible of realization until recently."
"Auto headlamps and outdoor, floodlight reflectors that are said to be as efficient as freshly silvered glass mirrors have been developed by using a coating of polished chromium. This metal, unlike aluminum, silver or nickel, will not tarnish or corrode although subjected to constant exposure, and is so hard that gritty waste may be used in cleaning it without danger of scratching. It need not be coated with lacquer to protect it from the atmosphere; hence the full benefit of its brightness is obtained."
"Two illuminating fountains which automatically synchronize their light and the movements of their waters with radio music have been installed in the San Francisco civic center. By means of a special attachment, the tempo and the loudness of the tones modify or increase the force of the jets and change the lights, which are of four different colors. As the volume of the radio signals varies, the jets rise or fall and the lights shine through the spray so that the music selection is “reproduced” in color and motion."
"A number of very timely topics will be covered by the program about completed for the Midwinter Convention of the A. I. E. E., to be held in New York, February 8–11, 1926. Among the subjects discussed will be transmission, protective systems and distribution, electrical machinery, communication, insulation and dielectrics, electromagnetism and measurements."
"The National nominating committee of the Institute will meet at Institute headquarters, New York, early in December, to nominate candidates to be voted upon at the Institute election next spring, in accordance with the provisions of the constitution and by-laws as published in the October JOURNAL."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A meeting of the New York Electrical Society will be held in the auditorium, Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. at 8 p. m. on the evening of Wednesday, December 9, 1925. The meeting will be of a rather novel nature as it will be devoted to an “Evening with the Movies,” being an exposition of the latest developments in engineering and science. The picture will be accompanied by music furnished by an excellent orchestra. The Society extends a cordial invitation to attend to all interested engineers and their friends."
"The eighteenth annual meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers will be held at the Hotel Sinton, Cincinnati, Ohio, December 2–5. An enjoyable and instructive program has been arranged and transportation for members will be cared for by a special schedule on the new Baltimore and Ohio train, the National Limited, through J. C. Olsen, Secretary."
"Industrial preparedness as insurance against war will be the topic of a meeting to be held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, at 8:30 P. M., Friday, December 4, 1925. The speakers will be Dwight F. Davis, Secretary of War; Hanford MacNider, Assistant Secretary of War, and General James G. Harbord, President of the Radio Corporation of America. The Honorable Elbert H. Gary, Chairman, Advisory Board, New York Ordnance District, will preside. Engineers, chemists and manufacturers, particularly, will be interested in the meeting and they are invited to be present as an indication of their support of the War Department in its program on this subject. Ladies will be cordially welcomed. The committee on arrangements consists of representatives of the Army Ordnance Association and six engineering societies including the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Plans are being perfected for a Power Conference to be held in Chicago, January 26–29, the committee in charge consisting of Arthur L. Rice, chairman, G. E. Pfisterer, secretary, with two committee members each from the American Institute of Mining Engineers, The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the National Safety Council, the National Electric Light Association, the Western Society of Engineers and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. It is proposed that, at the first meeting, the conference will take up the subject of the power resources of the country; this will be followed by a second meeting for the consideration of the best ways and means to utilize these resources. Thursday afternoon will be left open for inspection trips to the various power stations and developments in and about Chicago, by way of gaining further information helpful to the cause."
"The meeting of Section M (Engineering) of the American Association for the Advancement of Science will be held in Kansas City, Wednesday, December 30, 1925, in connection with the annual convention of the Association. All interested are welcome to attend. The opening address will be by Dr. A. E. Kennelly, Professor of Electrical Engineering, Harvard University and retiring chairman of Section M. This will be followed by the further addresses; The Relation of Map Making to the Progress of Civilization, by Col. E. Lester Jones, Director of the U. S. Coast Geodetic Survey; Contributions of Seismology to Engineering Design, by Dr. James B. MacElwane, St. Louis University; Human Engineering, by Dean Hugh Miller, George Washington University, and a round table discussion on “The Relation of the Professional Engineering Societies to the American Association for the Advancement of Science.” President M. I. Pupin will preside at the evening session and will offer an address on “The Relation between Pure and Applied Science.” This talk, with possibly two additional speakers of national prominence as engineers and scientists, will close the meeting."
"The Fourth Radio Conference was held in Washington, D. C., during the week of November 9, under the direction of Herbert Hoover, Secretary of Commerce, who acted as chairman."
"Corrections are noted for \"Section 10 - Standards for Direct and Alternating Current Fractional Horsepower Motors.\" and \"Section 30 - Standards for Wires and Cables.\""
"In the campaign to reduce the loss of life due to preventable accidents — a figure said to reach 83,000 annually — the National Safety Council, in cooperation with the New York Sections of the national societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers, held a meeting at the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, on Wednesday, November 18, 1925."
"The Fall Meeting of the North Atlantic Section of the American society of agricultural engineers will be held December 10–12 inclusive at Schenectady, New York with headquarters at the Hotel Van Curler. Problems under discussion will be those relating to Federal Funds for agricultural education, its organization under various States and Federal agencies, rural electrification, farm power machinery and farm building with reference to remodeling sanitation and upkeep. The address of welcome will be delivered by F. A. Wirt."
"At the recent annual meeting of the Association of American Universities, in New Haven, the admission of United States Military Academy at West Point to membership under the class of Technological Institutions was formally approved. This approval was voted after a careful investigation of the curriculum and collegiate standards maintained in the educational training of West Point had been satisfactorily and duly accomplished. The immediate effect of the military academy's membership in the Association will be to give to any of its graduates selected as Rhodes scholars, a regular senior standing at Oxford, as the Association of American Universities is recognized by the English universities and graduates of universities, colleges and technical schools upon the Association's accredited list are given senior rating without question."
"At the forty-first annual meeting of the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies, held during the week of October 19th, at the Arlington Hotel, Hot Springs, Ark., Mr. Dugald C. Jackson, of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and past-President of the Institute, presented a valuable paper on the subject of “Electrical Distribution in Very Congested Territory.” Mr. Jackson stated that “the results of comparative analysis of d-c. and a-c, low-tension distribution for Manhattan are notably in favor of the d-c, fortified by storage batteries from a physical standpoint.” He stated that the d-c. distribution system with associated storage batteries has produced a result which is of outstanding service; namely, providing continuous, well-regulated and uninterrupted supply of electric power to the distribution mains through all the vicissitudes of electrical plant operation."
"The most recently organized Section of the Institute, the Saskatchewan Section, held its first meeting in Regina on October 23. Officers were elected and an interesting paper, Power Supply for Cities of Saskatchewan was read by E. W. Bull, Superintendent of Light and Power, City of Regina."
"Recommendations for the measures necessary to encourage the civil use of aircraft in the United States and a complete survey of the present legal, governmental, commercial and public relations of civil aviation are included in a report which has been prepared by a joint committee of the Department of Commerce and the American Engineering Council."
"Summary form only given, as follows. \"To lessen the danger of disasters to aircraft and other structures, The Engineering Foundation,\" says Mr. Alfred D. Flinn, Director, \"is endeavoring to incite an exhaustive study of the fatigue of metals.\" This is pursuant to a declaration by the official journal of the American Chemical Society that further knowledge of the fatigue of metals is essential to guard against repetition of mishap to aircraft, such as the tragic fate of the Shenandoah."
"A meeting of the joint research committee on the Effect of Temperature on the Properties of Metals, sponsored by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the American Society for Testing Materials was held at the Cleveland Hotel, Cleveland, Ohio, October 25th. The Subcommittee on Cooperative Laboratories, through its head, C. T. Malcolm, reported that practically all laboratories addressed had expressed willingness to cooperate in these investigations to the limit of their facilities."
"The 27th annual meeting of the American Physical Society will be held in Kansas City, December 28–30, 1925, in conjunction with Section B — Physics — of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Professor K. T. Compton will give the annual address, on “Dielectric Constants and Molecular Structure” and this will be followed by a symposium on relativity, which will include papers by Prof. H. G. Gale of the University of Chicago, Prof. A. C. Lunn, also of the University of Chicago, and Dr. Charles E. St. John, of the Mt. Wilson Observatory."
"There appeared in the November issue of the Institute's Journal, notice of the award of the Montefiore Medal to Doctor J. B. Whitehead. Since this publication, we have been informed of further awards as follows: First award to Frederick Creedy, London, England, for “Some Developments in Multispeed Cascade Induction Motors” and “Variable Speed Alternating Current Motors without Commutators,” with an award of 6000 francs; and Second awards to Dr. Whitehead and to Mr. Chechelowsky, engineer and electrician of the Anvers Institute, for “Study on Operating and Releasing Times of Telephone Relays,” each receiving an award of 4000 francs."
"Plans for industrial and scientific museums and particularly a Museum of the Peaceful Arts, proposed for the City of New York were given impetus by Dr. Oscar von Miller, founder and Director of the Deutsches Museum of Munich, through an address which he gave on November 23 in the Engineering Societies Building, New York."
"Elihu Root, addressing a Chandler memorial meeting of the American Chemical Society, Havemeyer Hall, Columbia College, Monday evening, November 16th, characterized the late Charles F. Chandler as an “outstanding American who had the genius of public service.” Extolling Professor Chandler as the founder of the Columbia School of Mines and the American Chemical Society, Mr. Root continued describing him as “possessed of a quality of clear and unhesitating courage, forgetful of self and ambitious for concentrated effort of accomplishment.” President Butler's tribute to Professor Chandler was an exhortation “not to express sorrow in the heart at his loss but rather to sound the note of triumph for his enduring leadership.” Doctor M. I. Pupin, whose address on “Chandler, the Teacher and Chemist” is published elsewhere in this issue of the Journal, also added affectionate acclaim of Professor Chandler's undying worth to humanity in general, as well as to the science."
"A tablet to the memory of the late Paul Howes Norcross, member of the American Society of Civil Engineers and American Institute of Consulting Engineers, who was lost in the Norman boat disaster on the Mississippi River, May 1925, was erected on the grounds of Georgia School of Technology, his Alma Mater, by his fellow engineers and unveiled October 30th with appropriate ceremonies witnessed by a representative group of students, friends and engineers from distant points. The principal address, “The Contributions of Paul Norcross to the Engineering Profession” was made by Robert Ridgway, president of the American Society of Civil Engineers, who paid high tribute to Mr. Norcross for his public spirit and engineering ability."
"A Bibliography of Bibliographies on Chemistry and Chemical Technology, 1900–1924, by Clarence J. West and D. D. Berolzeimer, is announced by the National Research Council, Washington, D. C, as their Bulletin No. 50 (308 p., $2.50). This work is composed of the following sections: General Bibliographies, Abstract Journals and Year-Books, General Indexes of Serials, Bibliographies of Special Subjects and Personal Bibliographies. As the title indicates, the work is a compilation of bibliographies published as separates, or at the end of books or magazine articles, or as footnotes to the same, on the numerous aspects of pure and applied chemistry. Each entry gives name of author or compiler, title, and place of publication. The majority of the entries state the number of references, thus giving an indication of the completeness of the particular bibliography. The entries are classified under the proper subject-headings, alphabetically arranged. The duplication of individual entries has been largely avoided by the liberal use of cross-references. An approximate analysis shows that there are about 2400 subject headings, 7500 author entries and a total of 10,000 individual bibliographies. Although no claim is made for the completeness of the compilation, it is believed that the work will furnish a convenient starting point for any bibliographic search."
"The following officers and members have received appointment as an executive committee for the Highway Research Board: Chairman, A. N. Johnson, Dean, College of Engineering, University of Maryland; vice-chairman, W. H. Connell, Engineering Executive, Pennsylvania State Highway Department; director, Charles M. Upham, State Highway Engineer, North Carolina; T. R. Agg, Iowa State College; A. J. Brosseau, President of the Mack Truck, Inc.; H. C. Dickinson, Chief, Bureau of Public Roads, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture and Wm. Spraragen, Secretary Engineering and Industrial Research, National Research Council."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"George Young Allen, Associate of the Institute, was killed November 12th, when a Pennsylvania train telescoped the rear end of the express train on which Mr. Allen was returning from the Fourth National Radio Conference held at Washington, D. C. Though only thirty-two, Mr. Allen was already a conspicuous figure in radio activities, at the time of his death being technical assistant to the manager of the Radio Department of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company. Born at Bernardsville, New Jersey, 1893, his general education was through the local grammar and High School. Immediately thereafter he entered Stevens Institute of Technology and graduated with an M. E. degree in 1915. This was followed by a post graduate course in alternating current at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, completed in 1917. From 1915 to 1916 he was employed in the Physical Laboratory of the Western Electric Company and from 1916 to 1917, in the Research Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, having been transferred by the Western Electric Company to the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and assigned to this work by them. In August 1917, he entered the Radio Division of the Bureau of Steam Engineering, Navy Department, where he remained until his connection with the Westinghouse Company in 1919. Beside being an Associate of the Institute, Mr. Allen was also a member of the Institute of Radio Engineers, the National Electric Light Association and the Associated Manufacturers of Electrical Supplies. Mr. Mallory, Manager of the Radio Department of the Westinghouse Company pays him the following tribute: “Brilliant as an engineer; indefatigable as a worker; charming of personality — it will be impossible to replace him.”"
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 63 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 16th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Index of papers, discussions, reports, etc."
"You will never know a man until you have seen him in his own home, and a man's home is in the hearts of his family. A member of the Institute who brings his wife and children to the Annual Convention brings his home also and bids us enter. We gladly do so, and from that moment, we feel that there is a family relationship which binds all to one another as well as to the Institute. Membership in the Institute then assumes a different meaning; to the community of scientific and professional interests there is added a community of human interests, and this transforms the Institute into a spiritual being."
"Leonardo de Albuquerque Cavalcanti, while supervising the termination of the trolley line for the second electrified section of the Paulista Railway, Brazil, the construction of which he had just completed, came in contact with a high-voltage line and was instantly killed. Born in Sao Paulo, Brazil, July 1, 1892, Mr. Cavalcanti's early education was through the Bacherai in Science at Saint Louis College, Brazil. He next took a four years' course in Civil Engineering at McKenzie College, Brazil, before coming to the United States to enter a three years' post graduate course in the School of Electrical Engineering, Princeton University. In 1916, the Charles Ira Young medal for Electrical Research was awarded him. This was the year of his graduation from Princeton and for the thesis presented for his electrical engineering degree he chose the subject of investigation to determine the thermal and electrical conductivity separately, and also the ratio of the thermal to the electrical conductivity of pure Acheson graphite by the Kohlrausch method. In the summer of 1914, he joined the Western Electric Company at Cicero, Illinois, and for a year, before returning to his own country was with the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co. of Pittsburgh. Upon his return to South America, he became assistant engineer for the Cia. Compineneira de Luz e For and later, in 1920, was asked by the superintendent of the Paulista Railway to take charge of anew electrification construction plant. It was here that he met his death. Mr. Cavalcanti became an Associate of the Institute in 1916, the year of his graduation from Princeton, and his activities in the profession seemed to promise much."
"As announced in previous issues of the JOURNAL, the proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Institute, as submitted to the membership for a letterballot under date of February 2 5, 1 9 2 5, were all adopted at the Annual Meeting of the Institute held May 15. Amended By-laws, as revised to harmonize with the amended Constitution, were adopted by the Board of Directors on June 25."
"Accompanying corona on a transmission line, there has been found, in several cases, an appreciable increase in the line charging current over that indicated by the usual formula. This has been taken to indicate an increased line capacitance resulting from the presence of the corona envelope about the conductors, and has, for this reason, come to be described as the extra-capacity effect of corona. This explanation, by an envelope, however, has not been entirely satisfactory, and the question has arisen as to whether the current increase could not have been equally as well attributed to the current and voltage harmonics which the corona introduces. The paper describes an investigation made of this extra-capacity effect on an artificial transmission line using artificial corona. In avoiding, by means of this method, the glow discharge of real corona, all envelope effects were eliminated. The operation of the artificial corona is described, and the results given of the tests which were made in checking its characteristics against those of real corona. By means of the artificial corona is shown that it is possible to obtain the extra-capacity effect of corona without having present an ionized envelope. The explanation is offered that at least the larger portion of this effect found on transmission lines under corona conditions is apparent only; that it is a result of the approximate method by which the line capacitance is calculated, and the increased admittance which the line offers to currents of harmonic frequencies. The effect of corona leakage in altering potential rise on an open line is shown by representative voltage distribution curves taken on an artificial line with and without the corona leaks operating. From a comparison of these curves it appears that the leakage of corona plays a predominant part in the establishment of the resultant voltage, the harmonics caused by the corona in no case producing unusual resonance effects or extra-potential rises. This is important largely for the indication it gives that the present methods of predetermining voltage distribution on open lines for corona conditions are accurate within the limits of engineering accuracy. Qualitative results are given showing the effectiveness of corona leakage in reducing traveling waves such as result from switching operations. Two oscillograms of the same transient are shown, one taken with the corona leaks operating and the other without. The much shorter duration of the transient in the former case is evidence of the corona's effectiveness in absorbing the energy of the disturbance."
"A condition of the insulation of transmission lines is described as follows. The condition may be designated as a small insulator and high insulation."
"No longer need a clothing store salesman take a suit to the window to show the prospective customer the effect in daylight, or even turn on a special light. Instead, he will soon be able to hand the customer a pair of day-light spectacles which have been invented by Dr. Hermann Weiss of Vienna. Already they have come into wide use in laboratories in the textile, paper and dye industries, where it is often necessary to judge the color of solutions. They are of blue glass which absorbs some of the yellow rays in which the ordinary incandescent lamp is rich but which are not present in such abundance in sunlight."
"With an increase of traffic carrying capacity of S00 per cent over that of corresponding cables of the previous art, the New York-Azores permalloy-loaded cable marks a revolution in submarine cable practise. This cable represents the first practical application of inductive loading to transoceanic cables. The copper conductor of the cable is surrounded by a thin layer of the new magnetic material, permalloy, which serves to increase its inductance and consequently its ability to transmit a rapid succession of telegraph signals. This paper explains the part played by loading in the operation of a cable of the new type and discusses some of the problems which were involved in the development leading up to the first commercial installation. Particular attention is given to those features of the transmission problem wherein a practical cable differs from the ideal cable of previous theoretical discussions. Brief mention is made of means of operating loaded cables and the possible trend of future development."
"The author describes a new device which has been developed for pathological use in recording the hand tremors of patients, as an aid in the diagnosis of disease. The motion is resolved into its horizontal and vertical components, both of which are given on the record. This instrument is also useful to the engineer for recording mechanical vibrations of various kinds. An important feature is the freedom of the vibrating body from all restrain, due to the optical method employed."
"Receiving troubles which have for sometime baffled Warsaw and vicinity appear to have been terminated by the result of investigation made by V. W. Spears, electrical engineer for the Interstate Public Service Company at their office in Indianapolis, in localizing the interference which, for the past six months, has made radio reception in that locality practically impossible. Correction was accomplished by the discovery of a high-powered electrical leak. A leaky bushing was found in the transformer at the Warsaw Water works and power house on North Buffalo Street. This has been sending a throbbing noise into the ether and for months puzzling radio experts."
"In view of the present trend toward three-phase secondary distribution involving, in some cases, a change from a two-phase system, an analysis of the engineering and economic elements of a two-phase system may be of value. The two-phase five-wire secondary system is examined in the light of fundamental requirements, such as service continuity, safety, standard voltages, flexibility, low cost, etc., and compared particularly with the three-phase, four-wire star system. Many of the advantages of the two-phase, five-wire system result from the diametrical connection of the two phases, from the inherent balance thereby obtained, and from the greater power carried per wire. An important advantage of the two-phase, five-wire system lies in the fact that single-phase, two-wire and three-wire loads and two-phase loads can be supplied at standard voltages from combination lighting and power secondaries and that new loads can be flexibly supplied through all stages of load growth. There are marked advantages from a construction and operating point of view in having ordinarily only two transformers in banks which supply two-phase secondaries from either two-phase or three-phase primaries. The two-phase, five-wire system has certain advantages as to metering and a comparison of the first cost and the annual cost of two-phase and three-phase motor installations, with wiring, shows small differences. The inherent cost differential between two- and three-phase secondaries with several types of primary systems is shown to be of such a small magnitude that the cost of change over from one type of system to another may over shadow the theoretical savings. Accordingly, with a relatively small inherent cost differential between the existent system and one having certain, more or less, proved advantages and disadvantages, the central station engineer must produce extremely strong arguments leading out of his local situation in order to justify a change from the existing system."
"Sweden is far advanced in the use of electricity for domestic and industrial purposes as well as in the manufacture of electrical machinery and supplies of various kinds. Throughout the country, power generated by numerous hydroelectric plants is in general use, and to meet the resulting large requirements for equipment an important domestic electrical industry has been developed."
"The stand is taken that the resolution of the leakage reactance of a pair of windings into the individual reactances of the two windings is indeterminate unless referred to a third winding and that therefore it varies with the object in view when making the resolution. If the object is the influence of exciting current on performance, the problem is converted into a three-winding transformer problem by conceiving of the exciting current as produced by a (fictitious) load in a (fictitious) third winding. It is pointed out that the resolution of leakage reactance into individual reactances is possible only in the case of three windings, and that therefore in a transformer with three real windings and a fictitious exciting-current-load winding, constituting the equivalent of a four-winding transformer, the simple resolution fails, each winding having a different individual leakage reactance when associated with one pair of the remaining windings than when associated with another pair. Furthermore, the resolution made from the standpoint of real load currents will be different from that made from the standpoint of exciting current. Formulas are given for such resolutions, and experimental methods are described. The problem is also considered from the standpoint of flux distribution and linkages, and the limitations of some common views are pointed out."
"The water-rate of large a-c. turbo-generators is determined in place with the generator supplying power to the existing commercial load. Such procedure requires that the electrical output be accurately measured under conditions where the load is practically always varying slightly, and where it may be varying considerably. Portable test meters are frequently used for such measurement. The use of portable indicating wattmeters is absolutely feasible for such measurement even where the load variations are extreme, with the resultant accruing advantage that the superior operating characteristics of the portable indicating wattmeters, particularly as regards their permanency, are utilized. Either the two-wattmeter or three-wattmeter method for measuring the power of a three-phase circuit may be employed. Great care should be used in selecting instruments, particular reference being made to their past history. Comparisons against secondary standards should be made under conditions simulating those of the test. Observations are made at frequent intervals depending upon the accuracy desired in the final result. The accuracy of the final values of water-rate obtainable in practise is such that the per cent average deviation from the mean will be within &pm; 0.25 per cent. This means that practically all individual test results will fall in a belt 1 per cent wide, while the probably true value of water-rate will be located within a belt which will vary in width from 0.5 per cent to 0.25 per cent depending upon the conditions. The results of a water-rate test on a highly variable load wherein the electrical output was measured with portable indicating wattmeters and the observations were obtained both with moving-picture cameras and by observers show the equality of the performance of the observers and the cameras under the existing conditions."
"The possibility and advisability of developing the hydroelectric resources of the Rio Negro, which bisects the Republic of Uruguay from the northeast to the southwest, has again received the attention of the National Administrative Council, and has been given considerable space in the public press. Uruguay is a country without fuel. The present annual imports of coal and fuel oil are valued at about $8,000,000."
"A knowledge of the instantaneous values of armature and field currents, when an alternator is short-circuited, is becoming of increasing practical importance. These currents determine the rating of protective apparatus, mechanical stresses in the machine itself, possible damage to other equipment, etc. During the first few cycles, immediately after a short-circuit, the currents are usually much larger than those on sustained short-circuit, and gradually approach the latter values over a number of cycles. It is, therefore, necessary to distinguish between the initial and sustained values of currents, and formulas are deduced in this paper for both. The novel feature of the treatment consists in starting with a generalized unsymmetrical three-phase winding, also containing an external inductance in one of the phases. The Kirchoff equations are written and solved for this general case, and it is then shown how the formulas for the usual one-, two-, and three-phase machines can be directly derived from the general expressions, without considering the magnetic linkages in detail in each case. A graphical interpretation of the equations is also given, in the form of space-vector diagrams, in which the m. m. f s. vary according to the sine law in space but not in time."
"In special tests from March 24 to April 2, the Bureau of Standards, with the cooperation of about 20 laboratories in various cities, made records of the variation in intensity of signal received from station WGY, General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y., during the sunset period. In order to study further the effects of sunset a second series of observations was started May 19 on station KDKA, Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co., East Pittsburgh, Pa. Records were made by an augmented group of laboratories on six days, distributed during the period May 19 to May 29. The observing periods were approximately three hours long, centering at the time of sunset at the receiving station. The records of these observations as well as those of the tests on WGY are being studied and a report on the characteristic effects which these observations established will be issued at a later date."
"The importance of short-circuit forces in large alternators has warranted an investigation of them. The first step in this investigation, which is discussed in this paper, is the calculation of the short-circuit currents that produce them. The method of solution used is that of the assumption of zero resistance and constant flux linkages which has proven so useful in the solution of many short-circuit problems. Formulas are calculated in the Appendix for both the initial and permanent short-circuit currents of all circuits involved in the short-circuit. The formulas cover all the common connections of single-phase, two-phase and three-phase alternators. A discussion of some of these formulas, together with a plot of them for assumed alternator constants, is also given."
"The use of electric drive on power shovels has been increasing very rapidly during the past few years, especially in open-pit coal and iron mines. Probably no class of industrial equipment has been the subject of such radical changes in design in the past two or three years. For this reason, more than any other, it is probable that the ultimate users, in general, are less familiar with the highly developed electrical apparatus available for their purposes than is the case in any other branch of industry. On account of the unusual conditions encountered, the electrical equipment must be of a very special nature. This article shows the reasons for the large increase in this business, discusses the special requirements of the service, and explains the characteristics and advantages of the various types of equipment available."
"R. W. Wieseman: I should like to ask Mr. Woodrow about the pull-out torque of this frequency-converter set; this is given as a little over 70,000 kw., or over twice the normal torque of the set. Is this pull-out torque the actual synchronous torque which the set can furnish for an appreciable time or is it the momentary torque of this set which includes the inertia torque of the rotors? The inertia torque is useful in a synchronous motor for a small fraction of a second only. The energy stored in the rotors of this frequency-converter set could furnish over twenty times normal load for but a few cycles. However, the limiting feature of the power output of the set is the ability of the generator to transmit power to its system. The power output of the generator, for a fraction of a second, is limited by the leakage impedance and not by the synchronous impedance because the generator magnetic flux can not change quickly and therefore it cannot be influenced by the opposing armature magnetomotive force. Thus, only two or three times normal load can be delivered by the generator for a small fraction of a second."
"E. C. Stone: I want to second vigorously Mr. Millan's conclusion that the auxiliary equipment, relays, etc., which are used in automatic substations must be designed with a very great degree of reliability."
"R. E. Doherty: Progress in most investigations of the complexity of those taken up in the two papers on short-circuit currents is made step by step."
"H. W. Eales: Cahokia Station of the Union Electric Light & Power Company is on a site of 51.6 acres on the Illinois bank of the Mississippi River ¾ mi. south of the Municipal Bridge and within 2½ mi. of the City Hall of St. Louis. There are available to it unlimited quantities of cooling water, both rail and river transportation for fuel, and unrestricted egress for either submarine or overhead circuits of any practicable voltage. Its location is, therefore, strategic from both the standpoint of economical production and distribution of power. The lack of all restrictions on the character of the electrical circuits affords all physical opportunity for high-voltage interconnection at the plant with any other system in Illinois."
"E. W. Kellogg: Mr. Brown spoke of getting a wave of 500 cycles and make it into a 1000-cycle wave with 90 per cent efficiency. The story is not complete until we know just what it does to the efficiency of the generator supplying the original wave."
"Carl Lee: There are a few examples cited in this paper which might require amplification or qualification for an engineer not familiar with this particular industry. Estimates are made showing returns of 6 to 20 per cent on the investment made on labor and fuel-saving equipment. Yet the cost in some cases runs up to nearly half a million dollars. The ordinary coal company would hardly decide to add so much to its capital investment for a small return. The normal conditions of coal mining are so frequently interrupted by strikes, poor market and competition that the smaller the mine investment the nearer the operator can come to breaking even in the long run."
"C. W. Fick (communicated after adjournment): Mr. Harrington's very interesting paper may raise the question of why this arrangement of vertical synchronous-motor drive is not universally adopted by the plate-glass manufacturers. There are some twenty plate-glass plants in this country with a total of 100 to 125 grinding and polishing machines. Of this number a majority must operate for a short time at slow speed at the beginning of each operating cycle, due to the method of lowering the grinder and polishing disks onto the glass. Thus, the synchronous motor is eliminated for these cases, unless a frequency changer and double bus arrangement is used."
"H. Weichsel: The self-excited synchronous motor has, during the last few years, forged its way rapidly to the front and promises to take a very important part in the layouts and designs of future power plants, distribution systems and consumers' plants."
"The past year has shown a marked advancement in the art of electrical machinery, not only in the successful starting and operation of machines larger than any ever built up to this time, but also in the purchase and partial completion of machines still greater in size. Accompanying the trend towards larger sizes of units, there has been much investigation along the lines of ventilation, insulation, mechanical strength of materials, losses in iron and copper, the effect of expansion and contraction on the insulation of long armature coils, balance of the moving parts and the dissipation of heat from flat surfaces."
"Advertising quite naturally groups itself into two separate and distinct methods of presenting its message to the public. Circulating advertising, the first of these, may be leisurely, argumentative, and thorough in the lesson it teaches and since it is read in the library or office, it is designed for such leisurely reading."
"A mountain top near Dijon, France, about 250 miles from the nearest salt water is equipped with a beacon of a billion candle power which will guide air pilots of the night flying line connecting Paris and Marseilles."
"As the result of a series of tests conducted by the Bureau of Standards of the Department of Commerce, a preliminary specification for the primary batteries used to operate railway signals has been prepared and submitted to those interested for consideration."
"A splendid program has been arranged for the Pacific Coast Convention, which will be held in Seattle, Washington, September 15th to 10th. The technical papers will cover distribution, transmission, hydroelectric developments, education, research and marine application. A number of trips of engineering and scenic interest has been scheduled with special plans for the ladies who attend. There will be golf, and the tournament for the John B. Fisken cup will be a particular feature."
"Seattle, September 15–19, 1925 (Note: Several of the papers listed here had not yet been officially approved and some had not been received when this issue of the Journal went to press.)"
"Success seems assured by the program which has been planned for the Annual Convention of the Association of Iron & Steel Engineers, to be held at Philadelphia, September 14th-19th inclusive. The Committee in charge has worked most unceasingly and have been rewarded with the fine promise of the program developed. Oil circuit breakers in connection with high tension Switching will be one of the subjects to come before the convention, and some others will be frog-leg armature windings; Report of the Electric Heating Committee, their subject being “From the Ingot to the Finished Material” auxiliaries and auxiliary drives for steam electric generating sttaions; extending the heat cycle in boiler operation by the use of preheated air combustion. The Committee invites questions on any or all of these subjects as well as any information that will tend to give breadth of application and success to the carrying out of the convention program. There will be an informal dance Monday evening and the regular Annual Banquet Thursday evening, the Philadelphia Section having charge of the entertainment schedule."
"In the work of revision of the A. I. E. E. Standards another section has been brought by the Working Committee to a point where comments from the Institute membership are desired. The new section is No. 9, Induction Motors and Induction Machines in General."
"About twenty leading American colleges and universities have filed applications for their students of chemistry and chemical engineering to take the one week's course of intensive training in practical technique of chemical engineering to be held in conjunction with the tenth Exposition of Chemical Industries, at Grand Central Palace, New York City, during the week of Sept. 28th-Oct. 3d. More than three hundred students are expected to enroll before the closing date. A course of lectures is now being prepared and examinations will be held at the close of the course, as a number of colleges have designated their willingness to give students credit toward their degrees for any work done at the Chemical Exposition. Professor W. T. Read, of the Chemistry Department, Yale University, is in charge."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Another step toward the national unification of industrial practises is registered in the announcement by the American Engineering Standards Committee of the approval of the “Electrical Industrial Control Standards” submitted jointly by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Electric Power Club. These are based upon previous standards of the Institute and of the Club, and upon practises that have been developing for many years. The document approved includes:"
"The approval, as American Standard, of a system of connections and markings for electric power apparatus is announced by the American Engineering Standards Committee. The standard is the result of a revision of the work of the Electric Power Club which has been developed over a period of years. The most important part of the revision has consisted in systematizing the work into a general plan not only for present needs, but to provide sufficient flexibility for future development."
"Another notable electrical engineer of high theoretical and practical attainments has joined the professorial staff in the Electrical Engineering Department of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in the person of Doctor H. B. Dwight."
"The Annual New haven machine tool exhibition will be held as usual in the Mason Laboratory of Mechanical Engineering, Yale University in September 8, 9, 10 and 11, 1925. The exhibition is under the auspices of the New Haven Section of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the New Haven Chamber of Commerce and the Mechanical Engineering Department of Yale University. It is designed to encourage an appreciation of the production value of machine tools and to exhibit the latest developments in the machine tool industry."
"At a recent meeting of the Executive Committee of the Highway Research Board of the National Research Council it was decided to hold the Fifth Annual Meeting of the Board at Washington, D. C., on December 3 and 4, 1925. Progress reports received from the Chairmen of the Research Committees show that they are conducting important studies on almost every phase of highway development, including finance, design, construction and maintenance, thus assuring a successful annual meeting. The program for the Fifth Annual Meeting is now being prepared and will soon be announced."
"More than $70,000 has been raised by a special committee of the Engineering Foundation, and, toward the settlement of a scientific problem centuries old, this will be applied to the erection of an arch dam on the Stevenson Creek, a tributary of the San Joaquin River, about sixty miles from Fresno, California. The dam will be 100 ft. high and both American and European engineers are aiding in the plans for its erection. It is to represent in actual structure plans “new to engineering effort” and approximately $100,000 will be spent to determine the validity of this concrete arch design. In the execution of this investigation, the American Society of Civil Engineers will act in cooperation with the United States Bureau of Reclamation, the States of California and Oregon, the City of San Francisco, Los Angeles County, power companies, irrigation districts, universities and individual engineers."
"The Transactions of the First World Power Conference, London, June 30th to July 12th, 1924. London, Percy Lund. Humphries & Co., Ltd., 4 v., 6423 pp., illus., maps. 10 by 6 in. cloth. These four handsome volumes contain the papers presented at the first World Power Conference, and the discussions they provoked. A fifth volume, containing an elaborate index, is in preparation."
"Mackenzie Macintyre has been made assembly foreman for the DeForest Radio Company, Jersey City, N. J. Robert C. Barton has left the service of the Iowa Service Company at Missouri Valley, Ia., and is now superintendent of the Caliente Public Utilities, Caliente, Nevada."
"Herbert M. Beechinor, who for some time past has been associated with the Electrical Testing Laboratories, New York City, in the capacity of Assistant Engineer in Cable inspection, died at the Mount Vernon hospital July 20th, after a brief illness. Mr. Beechinor was a native of Mount Vernon, N. Y. Born in the year 1884, his schooling was through the Classon Point Military Academy, Notre Dame University and University of Michigan, where he took a three and a half years' course in Electrical Engineering, graduating in 1906. After graduation, he spent five and a half years in the Testing Department of the New York Edison Company, one year with the Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa. and one year with the American Electric Fuse Company, Cleveland, Ohio. He joined the Institute in 1920."
"SECTION MEETINGS Cleveland Address by Parley Osgood, National President, A. I. E. E. Several motion pictures were shown. The following officers were elected: Chairman: C. L. Dows; Secretary-Treasurer, J. F. Schnable. May 21. Attendance 103."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 160,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, $9 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, NY. All members are urged to notify the Institute headquarters promptly of any change in mailing or business address, thus relieving the members of needless annoyance and also assuring the prompt delivery of Institute mail, the accuracy of our mailing records, and the elimination of unnecessary expense for postage and clerical work."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $8 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"After the routine business on the evening of the Annual Meeting, May 15, was held a session on Railroad Electrification, which was unique as well as beneficial in many ways. The outstanding feature of the meeting was the fact that the speakers were all executives and spoke from the executive rather than the technical standpoint. The purpose of the meeting was to make it known that the manufacturers of electrical systems applicable to steam railroads would now furnish any system decided upon as a desirable standard by the engineers representing the purchaser."
"Last year was initiated the holding of a Regional Meeting, the first one being near the end of the Institute year, on June 4 and 5,1924 at Worcester, Mass. The excellence of the program soon became known to our membership and a realization, from the satisfactory carrying out of the District No. 1 Regional Meeting, that through such meetings could best be provided the outlet for the technical information of our Institute which could no longer be brought out in the small number of national meetings owing to the growth in our membership and Institute activities generally."
"Charles F. Scott, the fifteenth President of the Institute, was born at Athens, Ohio, September 19, 1864. He attended Ohio University in Athens and entered the Junior year at Ohio State University, Columbus, graduating A. B. in 1885. He took postgraduate work at Johns Hopkins University."
"The work of the A. I. E. E. Technical Committees has been growing for the past several years until it has now become an important function in the activities of the Institute. When these committees were first organized their chief and almost sole function was to pass judgment on such-contributed papers as fell within their respective fields. This work as a rule was done by the chairmen of the committees and there was, at first very little real committee activity. Later, the chairmen were made members of the Meetings and Papers Committee and in this way they obtained a broader insight into the work of the Institute which lead to the cooperation of all the committees in producing well balanced and timely programs for the various Institute meetings and conventions."
"The Engineers of St. Louis have set a precedent which is worth chronicling. On Dec 29 of last year, the engineers invited to a dinner, the members-elect of the coming legislature, with the promise that none of the legislators would be asked to speak, nor would any request or propaganda for support of any bills be introduced. The meeting was a great success; and thereafter, if any of the engineers had occasion to go to the legislature, they met friends instead of strangers. A still more interesting result was that when the measure proposing to license engineers came up, a few letters from engineers in St. Louis to members of the legislature with whom they had become acquainted at this dinner resulted in a recommendation from the committee to which the bill was referred, that it should not pass. A second measure to license engineers received even less attention."
"This study was made in February and March, 1925. The author had access to the public records of the War Department but his responsibility for all statements is complete. Factual conveyance has been more important than euphony or euphemism. The object of the report is to present the basic facts pertaining to the whole Muscle Shoals situation in a way that the layman can make his own evaluation of, 1. What Muscle Shoals is 2. What has, and can be done at Muscle Shoals and from these facts deduce as to what, in the public interest, on the basis of the greatest good to the greatest number, ought to be done with it."
"Lewis A. Wilson, director of the division of vocational and extension education in the New York State Department of Education, has prepared a pamphlet on “The Need for a State Technical Institute,” the result of ten years' study. The proposed institute would contain departments of industrial information, chemical and physical research, statistical research, factory construction, accounting and business methods, trade and technical training and management training. It would further research work and provide full-time courses of two years or longer, shorter full-time courses, cooperative courses, evening and correspondence courses along technical and trade lines."
"When a water wheel-driven generator, or a hydroelectric station, loses all or a large part of its load, the voltage rises more rapidly and to a greater extent than has been generally realized. The purpose of this paper is to show the manner in which the voltage will rise under different conditions, and a method of calculating the voltage rise of a water wheel-driven generator when load is lost. The results of a large number of tests are given showing the rise in voltage on an 8500-kv-a., 6600-volt water wheel generator when load was tripped under several different conditions at three different places, namely; at the generator, on the high-voltage side of a transformer bank, and at a substation forty miles away. As it is not considered good practise to subject a transmission system to high over-voltages, consideration is given to methods of checking the voltage rise by use of relays as soon as possible after load has been dropped."
"The Tyrolese Hydroelectric Power Co., a joint-stock company of which the majority stock is held by the City of Innsbruck, has obtained a loan of $3,000,000, for the development of its Achensee power plant. This loan will enable the development of 70,000 horse power by 1927 and it is planned that the plant will eventually be enlarged to develop 100,000 horse power. The power generated will be sold to the Federal Railways for the Kufstein-Innsbruck line, to existing neighboring industries, and to the City of Innsbruck for such requirements as the municipal power plant is unable to accommodate. — (Trade Commissioner Elbert Baldwin, Vienna.)"
"The use of automatically operated stations has become quite general over the country, but as the development has been very rapid, and the engineers involved so busy with their individual problems, very little has been accomplished toward the pooling of ideas and experiences. This paper outlines some of the more important problems being encountered in automatic development such as the need for automatic fire protection in the stations, the necessary future development of thermal protective devices, voltage regulating devices, etc. Particular stress is laid on the fact that, while we have some problems which we presume have been worked out, some of the solutions are far from perfect. This paper is prepared in a manner which, it is hoped, will bring out many valuable ideas in its discussion."
"A new transformer connection of 100 per cent apparatus economy is described for transformation from two-phase to six-phase and vice versa. Its merits from various standpoints are compared with those of the Scott and the Woodbridge connections."
"Underground cables for transmission of power at 33,000 ft. and above have only recently come into use in America, or received much attention here. In connection with such cables suitable terminals are necessary and present an important problem in high voltage design. A marked tendency is noted toward the oil-filling of cable joints; terminal conditions make this procedure both logical and desirable. Dielectric strength must first be specified, and should exceed that of the cable; flashover should occur without puncture; lightning voltages should be guarded against in the design. Proper d-c. tests are still undetermined for various combinations of solid and liquid dielectrics, and a rigid practise can not yet be established with assurance. At present, high voltage cable lines are intended for a-c. operation, and safely factors should be determined for that kind of service. High voltage d-c. operation may come into practise later, and research in d-c. testing should be pushed. Standard ratings of terminals are proposed, corresponding to the accepted standard ratings for other high voltage apparatus. Consistency with other terminal insulation, such as apparatus bushings and line insulators, is desirable. Cable insulation may eventually experience similar standardization. The method of rating single-conductor and three-conductor cables should be harmonized, and both based on operating-line voltage. Four typical designs of high voltage cable terminals are described representing a carefully worked out and effective solution of the problem. These are (a) 37,000-volt three-conductor; (b) 50,000-volt single-conductor; (c) 73,000-volt, single-conductor; and (d) 110,000-volt single-conductor. Flashover tests and time tests, corresponding to breakdown and endurance tests on equivalent cables, are reported to illustrate the ability of the terminals to withstand factory and field tests on the cables, and to show the ample factors of safety under operating conditions. Results of an experimental installation of the 110,000-volt terminals demonstrate the safety of the design, predicted from calculations and confirmed by laboratory tests. For temporary testing purposes these oil-filled terminals are most convenient and economical, and contribute to the uniformity and reliability of the results in cable testing, which are the factors of greatest importance."
"A report has recently been issued by J. J. Jakosky and D. H. Zellers, both of the Bureau of Mines, on the effect of Metallic Conductors on Underground Communication. This report contains (1) a discussion of the chief factors affecting carrier-current transmission with particular reference in application to underground communication for mines; (2) a description of typical underground circuits used for power and lighting; and (3) description of results obtained in carrier-current experiments in coal mines near Pittsburgh, and conclusions as to power requirements and limitations for mine use."
"In 1914 the authors presented before the Institute two analytical papers on Protective Reactors. During 1917, 1918 and 1919 three large power stations embodying what seemed to be the best system of bus and feeder reactors were placed in operation. The present paper gives brief accounts of sixteen accidents on the buses or feeders of these power stations. In each case the reactors effectually kept the power concentration within such limits that the damage was localized, and no troubles were experienced from mechanical displacement of conductors and insulators elsewhere. In concluding, the authors state that their experience with reactors leads them to believe that short circuits in the largest power stations can be so controlled by a properly designed system of reactors that their destructive effects will be confined to the immediate vicinity of the arc, and that it will be possible so to tie together power stations and power systems of any magnitude that a short circuit will be of merely local significance and will not jeopardize the service of other parts of the system."
"The theory and applications of self-excited synchronous motors have been repeatedly discussed in the literature, but the subject has been usually presented as a study of some special variety of this type. It now seems timely to give an outline of the general theory of the subject as a basis of comparison of the proposed types and a starting point for further development work. The study of a self-exicted motor is mainly a study of its exciting system. The writer shows that any combination of the exciting circuits is equivalent to one comparatively simple type, and studies two problems in connection with this standard type; (1) determination of performance of a given motor; (2) determination of design constants giving a desired performance. In this study stress is laid on the elements peculiar to this type of motor; but no attempt is made to treat fully the elements which the self-excited motor has in common with other, better known, motor types. The current locus of the motor is found to be a circle, and it is shown that any circle in the plane can be obtained by a suitable choice of the exciting system. The subject of synchronising is treated by a method showing an intimate connection between the synchronising process and the synchronous operation. The discussion of synchronising can thus be limited to the standard type, because the equivalence of the synchronous operation means also the equivalence of the synchronising features. It is shown that very high torque can be obtained during synchronising. The theory is applied to a brief study of a few types of the self-excited motor."
"It is hardly surprising that so rapidly growing and useful an art as industrial electric heating should be handicapped in these earlier days of development by inadequate data. Wherever specialists in this field foregather this lack is voiced. Descriptions of installations are plentiful and complete enough, and these serve a necessary purpose in exchanging reports on practises and showing prospective customers physical realities, but the “before and after” economic data so urgently desired by both manufacturers and central-station companies are pitifully scarce. We believe that the situation will improve from now on, but progress will indeed be slow unless heating problems are attacked with true scientific thoroughness by engineers responsible for the success of equipment design and applications."
"There is no standard cooperative plan of education. A cooperative course takes on the ideals, purposes and standards of the school and companies cooperating. The purpose of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology is to give young men well grounded knowledge and specialized information combined with a broad education and the power to apply theories of science to the practical requirements of industry. The cooperative course in Electrical Engineering at M. I. T. naturally has the same ideals and purpose. The course is five years in length and offers a degree of Master of Science to those who complete it. Only the last three years are cooperative, the first two years being practically identical with the regular Electrical Engineering Course. The regular school year consists of two terms and a summer vacation. The cooperative year includes the summer in its schedule and has three terms to the year, two of them being coterminous with the regular Institute terms. During the last three years the cooperative students spend every other term (practically four months) at the plants of the cooperating companies, any one student always going to the same company. The practical experience thus occupies eighteen months of carefully selected and supervised work in the industries. The student has the choice of a manufacturing company or a public utility company, providing he meets the Institute standard in scholarship and the company's standard in personality and natural inclination. He is paid at an hourly rate depending upon his length of service with the company, each student earning about $1500 during the three years. The last year is spent upon post graduate study and research both at the Institute and with the company. The student is under no obligation to stay with the company after graduation nor is the company obliged to hire him. To date, 47 per cent of the men have remained with the cooperating company. While at the plants of the cooperating company, the student continues to carry two of his Institute studies, two evening classes per week being conducted by members of the instructing staff at the Institute. Main features. 1. The course aims to train a carefully chosen group for engineering service of the particularly high order, in manufacturing and public service companies. 2. The theoretical part of the regular Electrical Engineering course has not been cut in order to make room for the engineering practise. On the contrary a year of post-graduate work has been added, for which a degree of Master of Science is granted. 3. The Engineering practise for a student consists of a course of experience, carefully planned and supervised. It is not merely a series of jobs. 4. The student spends all of his cooperative periods in the employ of one company getting a unified conception of organization and company policy. He learns the meaning of team work and loyalty. 5. Fluctuating business conditions do not interfere with his engineering practise. 6. The practical experience reacts on his theoretical work, explaining it and making it real to him. 7. His theoretical studies are not interrupted during his practise periods. He gets the habit of working days and studying nights, a habit which experience proves is hard to break in later years."
"A device has been developed by the Bell System for suppressing “echo” effects which may be encountered under certain conditions in telephone circuits which are electrically very long. This device has been given the name “echo suppressor” and consists of relays in combination with vacuum tubes, which are operated by the voice currents so as to block the echoes without disturbing the main transmission. This paper gives a brief description of this device, together with a discussion of its possibilities and limitations. A number of echo suppressors have been operated on commercial telephone circuits for a considerable period so that their practicability has been demonstrated."
"L. F. Woodruff (by letter): The complex quantity slide rule described by Mr. Dumond is extremely interesting and ingenious, but since, in his paper, he not only describes the new rule, but gives a synopsis of previous methods of making calculations involving complex quantities, I feel that one omission made in this connection should be pointed out."
"J. B. Whitehead: In the first studies of corona that were made in our laboratory, one of the questions that came up was whether or not the separate constituents of air played any part in the determination of the laws by which the corona was formed. And the original question which Dr. Lee started out to investigate was whether the oxygen of the air or the nitrogen of the air would show any remarkably different properties as regards breakdown."
"J. B. Whitehead: I think the striking result of this paper is the indication that sometimes insulation that has been strained will recover and sometimes it will not. It is easy, from our present knowledge of the properties of insulation, to see how both of those things may occur. Composite insulation is distinguished principally by the property of dielectric absorption, sometimes called viscosity, sometimes spoken of as the property of having residual charge."
"J. B. Whitehead: It has been known for a long time that liquid dielectrics of even the best type are subject to a moderate electrolytic dissociation, which means that the ultimate parts of the dielectric are at all times, some of them, in a state of separation as regards their component charges — not many, but some of them."
"J. R. Craighead: Mr. Curtis has given a great deal of attention to pushing the use of the oscillograph into fields decidedly beyond that for which the device was originally designed. The fundamentals of the oscillograph (that is, the natural frequency of the vibrator, and the photographic ability of light which can be placed upon the film) are such that values of the order that Mr. Curtis speaks of can be attained, but the general mechanical construction, and details, have been laid out with a view to practical operation in the shop and in power stations, rather than reaching the extreme values which Mr. Curtis has attained."
"J. L. Woodbridge: Mr. Vinal has given us the results of a new method of studying the subject of local action in the storage-battery cell. As he states, in his paper, considerable work has been done on this problem by other methods, one of them being the direct measurement of the capacity of the cell at different times, and another being an indirect method, by measuring the evolution of gases that are given off from the plates."
"G. L. Bayley: I would like to ask the author if it is possible to make an amplifier self-exciting, very much like a d-c. generator. Is it possible to introduce resistance in the plate circuit to give a voltage drop, and to apply that drop to the grid voltage so that the total effect would be much greater amplification."
"C. F. Scott: The motor described by Mr. Fynn appears a sort of an extension of the motor described by Mr. Weichsel, probably with improved performance, but with some sacrifice of simplicity in construction."
"V. Karapetoff: The use of exponential expressions for heating and cooling curves of machinery is quite old. I published a complete theory of such curves in my Laboratory Notes in 1906. See also my “Experimental Electrical Engineering,” second edition, Vol. II, pp. 69 to 74. For a number of years we had at Cornell a student experiment on temperature rise in transformers using and checking exponential curves. However, the discrepancy with the observed results was so considerable that we dropped the theory and left only the measurements. As a result of study of various Institute papers on temperature rise in electrical machinery, I have come to the conclusion that the exponential theory, in the simple form used by the author, is inadequate to represent the observed facts even in simple stationary apparatus, not to speak of revolving machinery. therefore am omitting this theory from the third edition of my laboratory book."
"J. R. Craighead: Mr. Borden has had a very difficult task because of the fact that it had been necessary for him to assemble a large number of methods of test, some of which border on tests of the public pocketbook rather than tests of electrical or mechanical quantity. I refer particularly to the space which he has been obliged to give to some of the more doubtful forms of mining, water, or treasure exploration and medical tests. Exploitation of the public is being made along those lines, along with the development of real means; and exploitation of the medical and semi-medical fraternity is also being done to a considerable degree."
"P. L. Alder: Mr. Spooner's paper extends by one step our knowledge of those various kinds of core losses which we have been considering for several years in Institute papers. First, we described the line-frequency losses; then, recently, Mr. Spooner described the surface losses; and now the pulsation losses are being attacked. These last losses, though, are the most complicated and the most difficult to understand of all those that occur at no load, and, consequently, it is worth while to point out some of the things that are not mentioned in Mr. Spooner's paper; which, nevertheless, are very important in this connection."
"IT would give me real satisfaction if I were present with you tonight to participate in your discussion of this problem of such profound public importance. I consider it is of highest significance, that leaders representative of the railroads, electrical manufacturers, electric-power industry, and our engineering societies, in a spirit of public service, are cooperating to lay sound basic plans for electrification of our railroads and terminals."
"ONE of the most important factors in making this country one and undivided, and tending toward greater solidarity in interest and thought has been the widespread development of transportation. This country is tremendously indebted to the courage and vision of the pioneer railroad builders in welding different sections of the country together. The Union of East and West by solid ties of steel was a magnificent achievement, rarely if ever paralleled in the history of any country."
"IT is more than proper that representatives of the railroads, electrical manufacturers, power companies, and our national engineering societies jointly undertake at once certain standardizations in electrical railway equipment. Such standardizations will not only facilitate electrification and provide better transportation at less cost, but will definitely forestall losses that will otherwise mount to enormous proportions in the future. The accomplishment of these standardizations is a public obligation of the highest importance."
"IT is generally recognized that adequate and efficient rail transportation is the prime necessity of modern civilization. Owing to the extent of our country and the fact that we have no internal water routes of moment, the importance of rail transportation here is accentuated so that the statement as to its necessity is more correct with us than in Europe. It is, therefore, of the utmost importance that the railroads of the United States keep pace with the requirements of the future growth and development of our country. This can only be done by the adoption and proper utilization of the best and most modern machinery and methods."
"THE announcement that the manufacturers of railway electrical equipment are now in a position to develop and construct any system of installation desired is of great interest to railway men."
"A LAWYER who represents a railroad company develops a great deal of temerity in invading fields of discussion reserved for experts. I doubt that there is any other industry in the United States that has so many ramifications of distinct activities as the railroad, and in which the lawyer is called upon to participate. The result of that situation is that we become amateurs in all lines and experts in none. I, therefore, speak before this organization of highly specialized minds with a great deal of diffidence. And the only way in which I can hope, so to speak, to get away with it is to keep entirely away from your field of terminology and lead you as far as I can into the territories that I understand, with the hope of making apposite the points that I would like to make with respect to this subject matter."
"The problem of proper illumination for the modern industrial plant is receiving increasing attention from plant managers. Numerous practical tests1 have been made and the results of such investigations have stimulated further activity in this field, and in consequence, the average intensity of illumination in use has steadily increased. The improvement in production and the betterment of working conditions in general, has been brought about by increasing the intensity of both local and general lighting, and by carefully designing the distribution of the light."
"Visual education, or in other words, education through visual means plays a very important role in our daily life. We all know that. It is only natural, then, that modern educational methods are turning more and more toward the use of those visual aids which assist us in grasping a thought with the least expenditure of time and energy — for in this respect a look is indeed worth a thousand words. Exhibits illustrating the various stages in the refining of asbestos, or sugar, or in illustrating the life and work of the honey bee or whatnot are frequently used in grammar schools as a “sugar coated” means of educating the child. Likewise actual experimentation and demonstration are used in our high schools and colleges to make various facts more clearly understandable to the student."
"The Bureau of Standards has been engaged for some time in a study of magnetic method for the detection of flaws and defects in steel, with particular reference to wire hoisting ropes. The economic value of such a nondestructive method would be very great. Many investigations along this line have been made at the Bureau and elsewhere, but the uncertainty in the interpretation of results has hitherto been an obstacle in the way of practical application."
"A program combining selected technical papers, delightful recreation and other features has been arranged for the Annual Convention which will be held at the United States Hotel, Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 22–26. The technical meetings will cover such subjects as distribution, circuit breakers, electrophysics, magnetism, transmission, telegraphy and hydro-electric development. There will also be presented reviews of the latest progress in many branches of electrical engineering, including machinery, generation, power stations, protective devices, transmission, lighting, communication, industrial applications, electrochemistry and electrometallurgy, electrical measurements, marine work, research and standards."
"The Committee on Award of institute prizes, composed of L. W. W. Morrow, Chairman of the Meetings and Papers Committee, Percy H. Thomas, Chairman of the Power Transmission and Distribution Committee, and Donald McNicol, Chairman of the Publication Committee, reported to the Board of Directors at a meeting on May 15th, that it had made the following awards:"
"Progress is being made in the arrangements for the Pacific coast convention which will be held in Seattle during the week of September 15. The technical program will cover a number of topics. The problems of distribution, which are now of especial importance to the Pacific Coast, will be discussed in papers from several parts of the country. Transmission, of course, and hydroelectric development will also be featured."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Annual Meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held in the Auditorium in the Engineering Societies Building, New York City, May 15, at 8:15 o'clock."
"The Annual Report of the Board of Directors of the A. I. E. E. was presented at the Annual Business Meeting of the Institute held in New York, Friday evening, May 15, 1925."
"In the work of revision of the A. I. E. E. Standards, another section has been brought by the Working Committee to a point where the comments of the Institute membership in general are desired. The new section is"
"As announced in the report of the Committee of Tellers, published elsewhere in this issue Dr. Michael I. Pupin of Columbia University, New York, NY, USA, has been elected President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE) for the year beginning August 1, 1925. A short biography of Dr. Pupin is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Meetings of nine of the Advisory Committees of the International Electrotechnical Commission were held at The Hague April 16th to 23rd, 1925. Delegates were present from thirteen countries. Inasmuch as the meetings included seven working days, with two sessions in parallel on most of the days, a great deal of ground was gone over."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, May 15, 1925."
"The Engineering Foundation began its second decennium at its regular quarterly meeting May 14. This fact was marked by a subscription dinner to Ambrose Swasey, the Founder, given by the present and former members of the Foundation, the Trustees of United Engineering Society and the officers and directors of the American Society of Civil Enginers, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Forty-five persons were present in the private dining-room of the Union League Club of New York."
"The National Academy of Sciences, at its annual meeting ending April 29, elected to life membership, Elmer A. Sperry, President of the Sperry Gyroscope Company and a member of the A. I. E. E. since 1884. Mr. Sperry is best known for his gyro-compass ship stabilizers and high-intensity searchlights."
"Papers of the highest quality and enjoyable recreational features assured the success of the regional meeting held June 7, 8 and 9, at Swampscott, Mass. There was a registered attendance of 370 and all were highly pleased. Very thorough preparations had been made by the committees in charge and the Northeastern Geographical District deserves much credit for the success of the meeting."
"Professor Elihu Thomson, one of the founders of the General Electric Company and director of the company's research laboratory at Lynn, Mass., was awarded the Franklin Medal and certificate of honorary membership in the Franklin Institute at a meeting held May 20th at Philadelphia."
"The twenty-eighth Annual meeting of the american society for testing materials will be held during the week of June 22, at the Chalfonte-Haddon Hall, Atlantic City, N. J. The committee in charge has so arranged the program as to leave afternoons open for special committee work and recreation. Technical sessions will include the work of research, testing and nomenclature on purchase specifications, corrosion; metals at high temperature; cement and concrete, road materials, roofing materials, textiles and miscellaneous. The same plan obtaining in the past for the distribution of preprints will be continued, and they will be mailed upon request as they become available."
"The Association of Mechanical and Electrical Engineers of Porto Rico has just been organized. An important qualification for admission to this Association is membership in either the A. I. E. E. or A. S. M. E., and it is anticipated that this stipulation will greatly stimulate the growth of the two memberships in Porto Rico. The Constitution was adopted as of April 10, 1925 and the roster of charter members includes 12 members of the A. S. M. E. and 10 of the A. I. E. E. Any member of the Institute visiting Porto Rico, interested in getting in touch with local engineers, should communicate with the chairman or secretary of the new organization. Chairman: H. E. Setchell, c/o University of Porto Rico, Mayaguez, P. R., Secretary: H. L. Talbot, Box 368, San Juan, P. R."
"In the presence of the entire Edison family, the Governor of New Jersey, the mayors of a number of New Jersey and New York cities, the president of Princeton University, chief executives of companies important in the electrical industry and practically all the surviving early associates of the great electrical genius, Mrs. Thomas Alva Edison, on May 16th, unveiled the beautiful bronze tablet in Menlo Park, New Jersey, marking the spot where Thomas A. Edison began his experimental achievements and conceived and perfected nearly all of his inventions. The inscription on the tablet reads as follows:"
"At a meeting of its Administrative Board, at the Philadelphia Engineers Club, May 8–9, the American Engineering Council voted to undertake what may be described as the first exhaustive investigation of the aircraft situation ever made in this country. By a special committee the various aspects of the problem, both military and civil, will be thoroughly reviewed and it is estimated that the task will involve a full year's work at an estimated expenditure of $50,000. The Board's action is prompted by the report of the Council's Aeronautics Committee, of which Prof. J. W. Roe is chairman, warning that the present confused situation in the aeronautical field is a national menace both as to military preparedness and commercial development. The present Committee on Aeronautics was dismissed and a new commttee to carry out this work of investigation under the direction of the Council's Administrative Board, will be appointed by the president, Honorable James Hartness. Work will commence at once in the arrangement for funds and the mapping out of a proper course of procedure."
"Fred M. Rosenzweig has left the Regan Safety Devices Company, Niagara Falls, N. Y., returning to New York City to assume the managership of an electrical manufacturing firm."
"James B. Yeakle, Superintendent of the Fire Alarm Telegraph, City of Baltimore, died there April 24th, 1925, at the age of 83 years. Mr. Yeakle was educated through St. Johns Institute, Frederick, Md., the place of his birth, and for forty-four years was engaged in telegraph and allied service. He had been with the Fire Department service since 1902."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 160,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited."
"ASSOCIATES ELECTED MAY 15, 1925 AIZANMAN, LESTER ELIAS, Operator, Methods Engg. Dept., Western Electric Co., Inc., Emeryville; for mail, Oakland, Calif."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"The broadening of the field of electrical application is evidenced on every side. In looking over papers presented at Pasadena in October, at New York in February, and in April at St. Louis, it is easy to recognize the new comers, fresh from the advance lines of new application. The engineers of the industrial world have been so busy with their own individual problems that we have heard little from them in our Institute forum, but now that their preliminary work is behind them, we shall be hearing more and more of their doings."
"The object of this paper is to show the part played by the different means of electrical communication in operating a large railroad system. The telegraph, which was the original and sole means of handling communications requiring immediate attention, has given way largely to the telephone and the printer. The development of the selector was essential to the general use of the telephone for train operation and message work, the train wire being considered the most important circuit in railroad operation. Extensive and special facilities are required in some instances to provide necessary telephone communication with the public. This includes telephones on certain limited trains in terminals. The telautograph is important but limited to local service in terminals and junction points. Same problems in engineering, construction, maintenance and operation as with the commercial telegraph and telephone companies, except that smoke conditions are worse along the railroad and continuity of service is possibly more important. Radio has possibilities as a means of providing information and entertainment to passengers on trains and in the operation of freight trains and tug boats. In handling train orders the train conductor must verify the instructions or orders he receives. The quality and accuracy of radio reception when a train runs through rock cuts, over or under certain types of steel bridges, through tunnels and during certain weather conditions prevents this means of communication from being used at this time for handling train orders. The volume of communication traffic is affected by the seasons, holidays and emergencies. The size of the communication system on some railroads compares favorably with that of some of the large commercial telegraph and telephone companies. An ideal communication system would provide accurate information between any two points on a railroad system or between the public and the railroad company without delay and under all operating conditions."
"Washington, D. C., April 7 — By October 1, the Soviet Government will have spent the equivalent of $70,000,000 in the establishment of seven regional power stations and the rehabilitation of existing stations. The announcement was received in a special issue of the Gazette of Trade and Industry, the organ of the Supreme Council of National Economy, dated March 7."
"The author gives a brief survey of the more recent achievements in industrial electric heating, and shows the increasing tendency of industries to adopt electric heating, particularly for high grade products. Specific installation for such processes as steel treating, copper and brass annealing, vitreous enamelling, glass annealing, baking japans, cores, bread, etc., on a large scale, are described and illustrated. It is shown that the quality of product has been improved by the use of electric heating with little if any increase in cost, and in many cases, at a lower “over all” cost. The desirability of heating load for the central station is emphasized, due to its high power factor and load factor."
"Radio is very popular in Chile, it being estimated that 25,000 sets are in use at present, most of them being of the crystal type. Although sales are active, and it seems likely that the market will develop materially in the future, it is believed that the greatest future market will be for radio parts rather than complete sets."
"The paper gives some general statistics on plate-glass manufacture, and estimates that the present total electrical requirements of the industry in the United States, are about 350,000,000 kw-hr. per annum. About 60 per cent of this energy is purchased and is considered a very desirable load from the central station point of view, as the plants generally run almost continuously and shut down only a short time on Sundays, giving a very desirable load factor. The paper briefly describes the manufacturing processes, and shows the different operations requiring the application of power. Specifically, it describes the 110-kv. station built for the Crystal City plant. This is designed along very simple lines to take the place of an isolated plant."
"Introduction MANY of the principles involved in the multiplication of frequencies by the use of highly saturated iron cores have been established by early investigators in the field of radio engineering. A number of articles on the subject have been published by various investigators, although very little information about the performance of frequency multipliers under load conditions was found."
"Testing and inspection requirements differ in these three countries as follows: In Austria, there is no organization charged with these duties, but only licensed electricians are permitted to make installations. In Bulgaria, a special controlling committee inspects and tests each installation before approving it for connection with the line, while in Rumania, where like inspections and tests are required, the work is done by the electrical experts of the municipal administration. No inspection is made in any of these countries by fire insurance companies."
"A PAPER under the above title was presented by the writer at the Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute in the summer of 1922, and was printed on page 740, Vol. XLI, 1922 Transactions of the Institute. This article and the included curves comparing the frequency of failure of the various disks of the assembly with the voltage gradient curve has been of sufficient interest to engineers connected with the high-tension insulator industry for the author to be requested to bring his investigation up to date by including the results of insulator tests of 1923 and 1924."
"It was originally planned that broadcasting in Japan would begin on March 1, but according to a cable from Acting Commercial Attache Frank Rhea, Tokyo, this has been postponed at least two weeks."
"The convenience and flexibility of electric lighting is the principle reason for the development of the present type of automotive electrical equipment. The conflicting requirements of good illumination for the drivers and the elimination of glare for the driver of the on-coming car have lead to the adoption of light directing devices according to specifications drawn up by the I. E. S. Lights conforming to these specifications give good results under ideal conditions but under bad road and car springing conditions cause a great deal of discomfort to the drivers of on-coming cars and considerable dissatisfaction with the results. There is a great need of improved result. The possibility of obtaining improved result by the use of polarized light, by the means of light filters, by the use of more diffused light, is discussed very briefly."
"It is expected that the electrification of the line from Paris to Orleans, the first important step in the electrification of the Paris-Orleans railway, will be completed during 1925."
"The designer of motors for locomotive service is confronted with at least two limitations; space and weight. For large locomotives, the second limitation may not be of prime importance, but the first must be constantly in the mind of the designer. The paper gives a comparison between different types of motor mounting as regards the amount of power which may be developed in the available space with direct current meters. The comparisons are largely qualitative but within reasonable limits are also quantitaive. The available space between wheels or locomotive side frames is divided into two parts. One of these parts is made up of units which are assumed to be constant within the range considered, while the other part is made up of variables. Expressions for the variables are derived, generally in terms of armature diameter, and constants and variables are then combined into a complete expression for motor output. The voltage applied to motor commutator, voltage-to-ground, number of poles, peripheral speed and track gage, as well as type of motor mounting are considered in the comparison."
"Prior to 1910 the electric light and power industry in China was in an embryo stage. Practically all the plants which were supplied were of European manufacture and few, if any, turbo-generators had been considered. In 1910 an American company sold a 350-kw. turbo-generator to the Mukden Electric Light Co., the first to be supplied to China. Later, in the same year, an order was secured for a similar machine of 500-kw. capacity for the Changshun Electric Light Co. At the time of placing these orders they were considered revolutionary, as practically all previous plants installed had been driven by reciprocating engines."
"The paper deals with the problem of obtaining the maximum output possible from a given amplifier tube, while keeping the distortion down to a negligible amount. A tube can be rated for this purpose in terms of the watts output obtainable, when a sine wave voltage of as great an amplitude as can be advantageously utilized, is applied to the grid. This maximum sine wave output is very much less than the rating of the same tube for oscillator purposes. Starting with a set of static characteristics for a given lube, the dynamic characteristics for any resistance load is readily plotted, and the power output and distortion can be read from the dynamic characteristic. A simple rule has been given by Mr. W. J. Brown for determining the best conditions of load resistance and grid bias for a given plate supply voltage. The best load resistance is shown to be twice the internal plate resistance of the tube. If the supply voltage exceeds a certain value, the application of the rules just mentioned would lead to excessive healing of the anode, and therefore a different procedure is followed, calling for greater grid bias and higher load resistance. There is an advantage in using low impedance tubes. The balanced or push-pull circuit, while reducing distortion, will not make up for failure to operate the tubes under proper conditions, nor will it greatly increase the permissible output per lube. The dynamic characteristic for a reactive load is not readily plotted, but for design purposes it is sufficient to determine the best operating conditions for a resistance load, and then make the impedance of the reactive load high enough to keep the plate current variations within the same limits as for the resistance load. An important application of the principles outlined here, is the design of radio telephone transmitters where serious distortion results from overworking the modulator tubes. For moderately deep modulation there should be from two to four modulating tubes for each oscillator tube. Certain details of design are discussed in the closing paragraphs."
"The operation of the single-phase induction motor is presented according to the crossfield theory as distinguished from the theory of oppositely rotating fields. The mathematics used require only a knowledge of algebra and trigonometry and no factors, such as crossfield iron loss and crossfield magnetizing current, are neglected. In addition to the derivation of the vector diagram, its transformation into an accurate circle diagram, which requires no assumption except sine wave voltage and primary field distribution, is shown. The result is a circle diagram practically identical with that derived by Branson (A.I. E. E. Proceedings, June, 1912) from comparison of the two-phase and single-phase induction motors, except that the derivation should be more easily followed and the result is a simpler diagram to construct and use."
"A report has been made on an investigation of the mechanical deterioration of impregnated cable paper when subject to various temperature tests which have been conducted at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for a joint committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the National Electric Light Association and the Association of Edison Electric Illuminating Companies. An abstract of the report furnished by the committee, is given in the following paragraphs."
"H. A. Barre: As you know, our initial problem was something very different from building a 220,000-volt line. We had the existing Big Creek Line. We didn't have time to build a new line; we had to get in and make that one work at a higher voltage to carry the additional amount of power that we had to transmit. That was quite a serious problem."
"F. W. Peek, Jr.: It is my opinion that apparent discrepancies in the corona papers presented are not due to error in the different investigations, but rather to the difficulty of comparing different conditions. To illustrate what I mean by one example: An aluminum cable strung at Stanford in a grassy field and another strung at Pit after being dragged over the sharp lava rocks should be expected to give different losses near the critical voltage. It would be difficult to predict the result of the mutilation by the lava beds without direct measurements."
"V. Karapetoff: The problem treated by the author is quite old, and a complete absence of correlation with the work of previous investigators is rather deplorable. Thus, the whole set of papers and a voluminous discussion before the Institute in 1918 are entirely ignored, as well as the subsequent contributions to the theory of this class of machines. In 1921 I showed the equivalence of the two theories of the single-phase induction machine Journal, Vol. 40, page 640) and gave a new equivalent diagram, only one branch of which contains variable slip. A circular locus and a general-performance equation follow from this diagram directly. In Vol. 41 of the Transactions there is a paper by Mr. Kostko which to me only shows that elementary mathematics is inadequate to lead to a simple theory of the machine, on the basis of two oppositely revolving fields. Mr. Perkins' paper shows that elementary mathematics is also inadequate in the cross-field theory. I hope, therefore, that this method of approach will now be definitely abandoned in favor of more advanced and shorter mathematical tools. In the Journal for 1923 (Vol. 42, page 1181) I indicated the use of the scalar product of vectors in the solution of problems on locus diagrams of electrical machinery. This new use of vector analysis has already proved to be quite fruitful in a derivation of the exact circle diagram of the polyphase induction motor, without inversion or long formulas. The next step is to try this method on the single-phase machine, preferably using the unified equivalent diagram mentioned above."
"H. B. Brooks: The paper by Kinnard and Faus is important and valuable, not only for its definite data and clear reasoning, but also because it is a tangible indication of the interest which is being taken in the question of the accuracy of metering. This interest reveals itself in many ways; for example, in the increasing attention which is being given to the ratio and phase-angle performance of instrument transformers. Among reasons for this interest may be mentioned the greater attention which must be given to plant operation, because of higher costs of fuel and other essential supplies; the growing tendency toward interconnection, with the consequent need of accurately measuring interchanged energy; and the necessity for accurate electrical measurements in acceptance tests of turbo-generator units, where an error of a fraction of one per cent may mean an error of thousands of dollars in penalty or bonus. Such tests must necessarily extend over a period of hours, and the load cannot be kept as constant as might be done with small machines in the laboratory. It is only natural, therefore, that those having to make such tests should turn to the watthour meter as a means of measuring the energy and hence the electrical power output. However, from information which has come to us, it appears that such use of watthour meters does not give results as consistent as can be had by the use of indicating wattmeters read at sufficiently frequent intervals. Nevertheless, the large amount of labor required for the latter procedure makes it desirable to bring up the performance of the watthour meter, if possible, to such a stage that it will be good enough for plant acceptance tests. The work done by Kinnard and Faus is an important step in this direction, and I hope they will continue their analysis of sources of meter errors and means for overcoming them."
"B. Jones: In the introduction to his paper Mr. Molina draws attention to the apparently little recognized value of the Calculus of Probabilities in engineering studies. Permit me to draw your attention to the extraordinary importance this calculus has acquired in modern mathematical physics as a means of developing the necessarily statistical expressions for the so-called laws of nature."
"D. W. Roper: The paper by Mr. Lee (the best discussion of the subject of testing high-voltage cable that has ever been presented to the Institute) contains a great amount of interesting information all drawn from the experience of one cable manufacturer. Some of the conclusions which he draws are, therefore, rather limited in their application as they refer solely to the particular type of insulation with which he is familiar. As will appear later in this discussion, there is a wide variation in the characteristics or properties of the insulation made by the different manufacturers. For the purpose of broadening our view and thus improving our perspective, and not for the purpose of making any invidious comparisons between the products of the several manufacturers, I am going to quote some of the results that we have obtained in testing the product of a number of cable manufacturers, in the hope that I may be able to show how some of the conclusions given by Mr. Lee should be modified. On the eleventh page of his paper, Mr. Lee cites the case of the failure of an experimental length of cable connected to a 110-kv. three-phase overhead line, and states that the examination revealed absolutely no discernible cause for the failure."
"J. J. Pilloid: The three papers, Metallic Polar-Duplex Telegraph System for Long Small-Gap Cables, Voice-Frequency Carrier Telegraph Systems for Cables and Polarized Telegraph Relays, describe two telegraph systems particularly adapted for use on long toll cables, and a relay which is an important feature of the two systems. By long toll cables we mean here cables several hundred, or a thousand or more, miles long, used for telephone or telegraph purposes."
"R. N. Nicely: In connection with the extensive toll cable program of the Bell System, it has of course, been highly desirable that satisfactory methods be made available for utilizing the cable facilities for telegraph as well as for telephone service. This has been accomplished by the development of the metallic polar-duplex telegraph system and the voice-frequency carrier telegraph system. Each of these systems is adaptable to operation under widely varying cable circuit layout arrangements and each has certain characteristics which make it particularly suitable for use in connection with different specific requirements. In actual practise, each of the systems is a valuable supplement to the other."
"Q. Graham; (communicated): To those who are familiar with synchronous motor V curves in the normal working region only, the shape of the curves in their remote upper portions may seem to be of little importance. Yet they do form a fascinating study and they have a certain practical importance."
"The continuing expansion in the uses of radio, and the unexpected phenomena encountered in the very high frequencies now so extensively employed, make important the determination of the laws governing radio transmission. Fuller knowledge of these phenomena is necessary before radio can fully grapple with the limitations at present imposed upon it by atmospheric disturbances, interference, and fading. To this end a number of university and other laboratories are engaging in a measurement program under the direction of the Bureau of Standards. The work includes measurements of field intensity, fading, direction variation and atmospheric disturbances, at the broadcast and higher frequencies."
"A novel method of illustrating several types of interior lighting systems has been developed for commercial lighting demonstration rooms in which the principles of illumination are emphatically disclosed. The system affords a means whereby the demonstration room may be illuminated either by indirect, the heavy density semi-indirect, the light density semi-indirect, the enclosing or the direct type of lighting."
"The schedule of events has practically been completed for the Annual Convention of the Institute which will be held at the United States Hotel, Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 22–26. The technical program, though limited in volume, will cover many branches of interest and the material will be specially selected for quality. As customary at the Annual Convention, the recreational features will be emphasized and all of the afternoons will be free for sports, automobile riding and other pleasures."
"All arrangements have been completed for the Regional Meeting of the Northeastern District which will be held at the New Ocean House, Swampscott, Mass., May 7, 8 and 9. The recreational and social events have been worked out in detail and an excellent technical program is ready for presentation. The features of the meeting were covered in the April issue of the Journal, page 427. The program of the technical sessions is given below."
"Good progress has been made in the plans for the next Pacific Coast Convention which will be held in Seattle, September 15–18. The local committee is already at work making arrangements and an excellent technical program is being planned."
"As previously announced, the annual business meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held on Friday, May 15, at 8:15 p.m. (Daylight Saving Time), in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City. At this meeting the reports of the Committee of Tellers on the annual election of Institute officers and upon the proposed amendments to the Constitution, also the report of the Board of Directors for the year ending April 30, will be presented."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"All anticipations for an enthusiastic and interesting meeting of the Institute in St. Louis were more than realized by the delegates and guests in attendance at the Spring Convention, April 13–17. The weather was generally propitious, except for some brief summer showers, and the season was unusually well advanced, even for that section of the country, so that the visitors enjoyed a week of typical June temperature."
"A meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Hotel Chase, St. Louis, on Tuesday, April 14, 1925."
"On March 27th President Coolidge named a Commission of five men who are to examine into and report to him upon the most practical method of utilizing Muscle Shoals. The Commission is expected to make a comprehensive study of the entire project. And the appointment was made in compliance with the Madden resolution adopted by the House of Representatives at its last session. The Commission will be composed of former Representative John C. McKenzie of Illinois, former Senator Nathaniel B. Dial of South Carolina, Professor Harry A. Curtis of Yale and William B. McClellan of New York, Past President of the A. I. E. E."
"As a memorial to Doctor Steinmetz, the Schenectady Section of the A. I. E. E. is initiating a series of annual lectures to be known as “The Steinmetz Lectures.”"
"The friends of Edward Dean Adams, men prominent in the fields of engineering, science, art, literature, transportation, finance, industry and club life, tendered him a testimonial dinner at the Hotel Waldorf Astoria, Thursday evening, April 9, 1925, on his seventy-ninth birthday. Through many of the activities to which Mr. Adams has so effectively devoted his life, he has rendered conspicious services to the engineering profession and industry. For years he has been a member of the Institute, exceedingly helpful in many of its activities. He has represented the A. I. E. E. upon the Library Board of the United Engineering Society and for five years was an active member of the Edison Medal Committee, serving as Chairman during the years 1922–1924."
"At a joint meeting of the four Founder Societies, Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers, on the evening of Monday, March 23, 1925, the John Fritz Medal for 1925 was presented to John Frank Stevens for his great achievements as a civil engineer, particularly in planning and organizing for the construction of the Panama Canal; as a builder of railroads, and as administrator of the Chinese Eastern Railway. John R. Freeman, past-president of the A. S. C. E. and A. S. M. E. presided. The presentation was made by Charles F. Rand, past-president of the A. I. M. E. Addresses were made by Ralph Budd, president of the Great Northern Railway Company and Roland S. Norris, former ambassador to Japan."
"In the progress of the work of the revision of the A. I. E.E. Standards, three more sections of the standards have been brought by the working committees to a point where the comments of the general Institute membership are desired. These sections are as follows:"
"A small, convenient-sized pamphlet, entitled “Where to Seek for Scientific Facts,” has recently been compiled by Alec B. Eason, (M. A. Cantab.), A. M. I. C. E., A. M. I. E. E., supplying a valuable reference for technical information to those interested in such bibliographical arrangement."
"With references to Insulator Test specifications as published in the March issue of the Journal (page 300); a section which was omitted from the report as originally submitted is given below."
"An A. I. E. E. Student Branch has been organized at the Missouri School of Mines and Metallurgy. The official authorization for the Branch was made on March 13th."
"A new Branch of the Institute was organized on April 2nd at the College of the City of New York. Twenty-two students of electrical engineering formed the first list of members."
"The A. I. E. E. 1925 Year Book is available to members without charge upon application to the Secretary, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y."
"The tentative program for the Spring Meeting of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, to be held this year at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, May 18–21 inclusive, offers much of both technical and social attraction. Many subjects of keen national interest, although possibly only semi-technical in nature, such as Forest Products, National Defense and the handling of materials will receive both written and oral treatment. With a representative attendance, much should be accomplished toward valuable progress along the lines scheduled for both general and specific betterment. Excursions in which no doubt many will participate, have also been planned for both diversive and instructive purposes."
"Salt Lake City, Utah, located in the center of a summer playground, is the place chosen by the American Society of Civil Engineers for their Summer Meeting, July 8–10, 1925."
"The Administrative Board of the American Engineering Council, will meet in Philadelphia, May 8 and 9 to formulate plans for the elimination of waste in the administration of the vast public works functions of the United States Government, and to unify national reforestation effort."
"That American business, big and little, is organizing to put all its power and prestige back of the standardization movement, and to facilitate and expediate an extensive, nationwide work is announced by the American Engineering Standards Committee."
"Charles R. Poe, has left New York City and the services of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company to join the Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, Omaha, Nebraska."
"James A. Lighthipe, Chief Electrical Engineer, of the Southern California Edison Company, died of pneumonia in Los Angeles, California, April 10, 1925. Mr. Lighthipe was born in Orange, New Jersey, in the year 1857 and in 1879 became one of the group of men Edison gathered about him at his laboratory in Menlo Park. In the Fall of that year Mr. Edison sent him abroad, where he remained five years engaged with the Edison Telephone Company in London, and the Edison Company in Paris and Berlin. On his return to the United States in 1884 he engaged in the installation of Brush arc lighting sets, was made superintendent of construction of the Edison Consolidated Electric Company which was merged into the Edison General Electric Company and later the General Electric Company. He acted as district engineer of the General Electric Company at their San Francisco office until 1908, when he became electrical engineer for the Edison Electric Company of Los Angeles. Mr. Lighthipe was not only an electrical engineer, but mechanical and civil engineer as well. His judgment and personal character were such that his opinions were accepted by consumers as the opinion of an independent consulting engineer."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modem technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $8 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Many engineers, electrical and others, as well as many industries, are giving attention to research work along the lines of pure science as well as applied science in the realization of the importance of the results from properly directed effort in such study."
"This paper discusses the effect on the windings when starting squirrel-cage induction motors with full voltage. The data is presented in four groups: namely, (1) Special tests made with a vibrograph instrument on a 60 h. p. and a 500 h. p. induction motor: (2) Observation tests made on a number of motors when starting with full voltage: (3) The condition of some windings which failed in service: (4) Formulas which show the main factors involved in the bracing of induction motors. Induction motor coil bracing in general is discussed."
"Experimental work in the production of sponge iron, conducted by the Department of the Interior at the Seattle, Wash., experiment station of the Bureau of Mines, has advanced to the point where it is believed that industrial applications of the process can be safely considered for the production of sponge iron as a metallurgical reagent for the precipitation of copper, lead, and numerous other metals from solution. In those regions remote from larger iron and steel making centers and where electric energy can be had at a comparatively cheap rate, sponge iron can also be converted into iron and steel products by melting in the electric furnace."
"The purpose of this paper is to encourage a wider recognition by engineers of a body of principles which in its mathematical form is a powerful instrument for the solution of practical problems. Some subjects in which the theory of probability has been used are recalled, the fundamental principles are staled and applied to three problems chosen from the field of telephone engineering"
"The production of copper that is capable of transmitting 13 per cent more current than present conductors was announced by Dr. W. P. Davey of the Research Laboratory of the General Electric Company at the December 31st meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. These results were obtained with large single crystals of copper, the experimental production of which was recently accomplished in the Schenectady laboratory. Use of single-crystal copper is at present not commercially possible because of the delicacy of the crystals and because of the difficulties of manufacture, but from a scientific standpoint the results of these investigations are of great interest."
"Experiments have been in progress at the Bureau of Standards to determine quantitatively the effect produced by a wide variety of impurities on the rate of sulphation of storage battery plates. The method for making the determinations involves measuring the changing weight of the plates suspended in the solution. The various impurities are classified according as they affect the negative plates, the positive plates or both. A discussion is given also of certain combinations of impurities. Sodium and magnesium sulphates which are sometimes added to the electrolyte to “improve” the behavior of the battery are without effect on the rate of sulphation. It is important that some generally recognized specifications for storage battery electrolytes should be established."
"Advancement in the production and use of artificial light can be emphasized in no better way than by the increasing tendency to depend upon it even in the daytime. A score of years ago artificial light was still a poor competitor with daylight. It was considered to be merely a feeble substitute by means of which the hours of industry or of recreation could be extended after a fashion. Today artificial light compares favorably with daylight in efficiency, does not always cost more and has many advantages in controllability and dependability."
"The need for a device to shorten numerical work with complex quantities is pointed out and a description is given of a slide rule in two dimensions devised to fill this need."
"The fact that the use of artificial light has been found in some instances, to stimulate winter egg production by as much as 70 per cent, has brought up the question as to what intensity is conducive to maximum production. The answer to this was obtained only after an extended investigation covering a period of two years. As a result of observations carried on jointly by the Department of Rural Engineering and the Department of Poultry Husbandry of the New York State College of Agriculture, it was found that the illumination necessary for active feeding should be in the neighborhood of one foot-candle. It was also discovered that besides the illumination on the feeding area, it was quite essential that there be sufficient direct light on the perches, in order that the birds would not have a tendency to roost there."
"AS subjects for my brief address, two thoughts have suggested themselves, either of which I believe is germane to the purposes of the Foundation and of this meeting."
"A number of companies operating paper insulated cables at high voltage have recently observed a peculiar “cheese” or waxlike formation in cables which have been in operation for some time. In many cases this formation accompanies cable failures, but so far there is no definite proof that it is a cause of failure. The Research Bureau of the Electrical Engineering Department of the Brooklyn Edison Company has been making an intensive study of this phenomenon to determine its nature and significance."
"Considering the thermal behavior of a dynamo-electric machine intended for continuous service, its acceptance tests require, at present, only a limiting temperature elevation under a continuous rated load. For the intelligent operation of a machine after it has been put in service, additional information is desirable concerning its thermal behavior under changes of load. This subsidiary thermal information concerning a machine with a continuous rating may consist of (1) its final temperature rise under some steady load other than its rated load, such as either 75 per cent or 125 per cent of the rated load, and (2) its thermal time constant. The thermal time constant of a machine, assumed as conforming strictly to an exponential law of temperature rise above a constant ambient temperature, after being transferred suddenly from one steady load to another, is taken as the time required to attain 1 – ∊–1 or 63.2 per cent of the final temperature change. This may be called the exponential thermal time constant. This is a fundamentally scientific quantity; but is very awkward to remember or to explain to a person not well versed in the mathematical theory of the subject. It is recommended in the paper that for all practical engineering work, a new time constant called the binary time constant be used. It would correspond to the “Period,” or “Half-value period,” already used in the Science of Radio-activity and in measurements of Radio active decay. A binary time constant is that time in which a machine, assumed as conforming to an exponential law of temperature change, after being suddenly transferred from one steady load to another, attains one half of the final temperature change (50 per cent). In two binary time constants, it will then attain ¾ (75 per cent) of the final temperature change, in three of them ⅞ths (87.5) and, so on. This is an easy relation to remember and explain. A binary thermal time constant may be taken, for practical purposes, as 70 per cent of the classical exponential time constant. It is more strictly 69.32 per cent. Although dynamo machines do not rigidly follow an exponential law of temperature change, for reasons discussed, yet for many purposes the deviation therefrom may be ignored. It is recommended that the binary time constant of all such machines may be adopted, where practical, for industrial use. In rotating machines, there are two thermal time constants, the constant-loss time constant, and the variable-loss time constant. The latter, expressed as a binary constant, is the practical one presenting itself for use. The binary thermal time constant has also useful applications in correcting the final ambient temperature during a continuous-load test, when the ambient temperature has been observed to change."
"Power factor correction has become a commercial problem of major importance, and technical knowledge and corrective equipment are available to make correction a part of the activities of the electrical industry. Field studies on several properties show power factor correction can be obtained without difficulty. Conditions can be improved by requiring all new business to be installed for high power factor operation and a cooperative movement should be made to bring about this condition. The situation on existing systems can be improved in either a wholesale or retail manner depending upon conditions. Cost analyses should be made to determine the type of correction to use and to decide upon the location of corrective equipment. But they should not be used for rate making purposes. A study of the types of systems in existence shows that in general correction is most economically and most effectively instituted at the loads. Also experience indicates the greatest effect of correction is to improve voltage regulation and service quality. Different types of rates and billing methods have been used, but a study of the art shows the kv-a. demand charge and the kw. energy charge can be used most successfully to secure power factor correction."
"The increase in voltage of cables has necessitated that the tests to assure satisfactory cable be more adequate than as standardized at present. This has resulted in an intensive study of the tests previously standardized, development of new tests, and the design and manufacture of suitable testing equipment to meet the new testing requirements. Measurements are made upon cables to determine the following properties of the insulation: Insulation Resistance Dielectric Strength Dielectric Power Loss and Power Factor Capacitance Ability to Withstand Bending Insulation Resistance: This measurement is being made in the same way on cables of all voltage rating. The results of the test on high-tension cables are of doubtful value as a criterion of the suitability of cable for use. Continued study of this measurement should be made. Dielectric Strength: Suitable testing equipment for satisfying the requirements of the increased voltages in dielectric strength tests has been made available. This includes sine-wave generators, adequate testing transformers, appropriate cable testing terminals. Data is given from which conclusions are drawn as to the magnitude and duration of test voltages. The adequacy of these values will become known through experience. The need for field testing is shown. Dielectric Power Loss and Power Factor: The tendency is to extend the measurement of dielectric power factor to include each reel length to be shipped. The Schering Bridge for making such measurements is described. The need for standardizing the testing procedure for power factor measurements is shown. Testing Installed Cable: The study of so-called “current-time curves” for rating installed cable should be continued. Preliminary measurements made at high frequencies as a means of rating installed cable did not show the results to be immediately usable. Testing With Direct Current: Data is given to show the d-c. to a-c.-ratio of breakdown voltage of some samples of 12 kv.-3-conductor. cable. Tests indicate that the d-c.-to a-c.-ratio will depend upon many conditions such as nature and structure of the material, thickness of the material, temperature of the material, shape and size of electrodes, and rate of application of the applied potential."
"One form of self-excited synchronous induction motor was described by the same author in a paper presented at the Spring Convention of the A. I. E. E., Birmingham, Ala., the present contribution describes a second form of such a motor. The starting, synchronizing, synchronous load and asynchronous overload periods are analyzed with special reference to the synchronizing torque, the automatic compounding and the weight efficiency, and it is shown that this second form is not only capable of duplicating the performance of the first form but of bettering same."
"The predetermination of the performance of a polyphase a-c. machine is greatly facilitated by the fact that at constant voltage and frequency its magnetic field is of constant intensity and rotating with uniform velocity. It is easy to form a mental picture of lines of ferce moving in space and being cut by conductors, which may be moving or stationary. Furthermore, the rate of cutting, and therefore the generated voltages, which form the basis for quantitative analysis, are readily determined by the relative motion of the flux and the conductors. Because of the ease with which a physical conception can be formed of a rotating magnetic field, the idea of considering a single-phase alternating field as made up of two oppositely rotating fields has been found very useful. In a paper entitled “A Physical Conception of the Operation of the Single-phase Induction Motor” Transactions A. I. E. E., Vol. XXXVII), Mr. B. G. Lamme has given an excellent description of single-phase induction motor operation based on a conception of two oppositely rotating magnetic fields. From the discussion of Mr. Lamme's paper, it appears to be the concensus of opinion that the method he uses furnishes the simplest and clearest physical conception of the single-phase motor. However, this is not the method usually employed in the quantitative analysis. Reference to text books will show that the mathematical treatment is usually based on the so called “cross field” theory. In this method the secondary induced voltage is considered made up of two components, one the voltage induced by transformer action of the alternating field and the other the voltage generated by rotation of the secondary conductors in the magnetic field. It has been argued against the method based on two oppositely rotating fields, also known as the “Rotating Field” theory, that it is more apt to lead to erroneous results, requires more expert handling and that it is an indirect method, being based on the previously determined performance of the polyphase motor. However, the main argument against it seems to be its limitation to induction motors only, and that it must be abandoned when we come to motors of the commutator type. Even those who otherwise favor the method appear to agree that it is not applicable to commutator motors as we are then no longer dealing with induction machines, but with shunt or series motors, as the case may be. The objection to the rotating field theory, that it is applicable to induction motors only, would be a serious one if it were valid. However, it will be shown in this paper that the theory can be readily applied to commutator machines also, and that so far from being more apt than other methods to lead to erroneous results, it undoubtedly furnishes the simplest and most direct means for mathematical deductions in the more complicated problems where three or more circuits are inductively related and moving with respect to one another."
"Among the achievements in the field of production and distribution of electric current in 1923 are the completion of a part of the installations at 150,000 volts of the railroads of the Midi, the commencement of the construction of the great feeder at 150,000 volts of the Orleans Railway, the substantial enlargements of the generating stations serving the region of Paris, the putting into service of the State system at 45,000 volts in the north of France, the completion of new sections of the Paris subterranean lines at 60,000 volts, and the beginning of construction of several lines at 120,000 volts, notably those which will transmit to Lyons the energy produced by the Viclaire plant in the Alps."
"K. B. McEachron: In the fourth paragraph in the first page, the statement is made that the relief voltage of the aluminum arrester for 6.6-kv. service is 18 kv., and for a certain distribution arrester is 28 kv. In the next paragraph is stated that the station type auto-valve has a relief voltage of 21 kv. instantaneous value. It is also stated that the comparison is well shown by the curves in Fig. 1. If the relief voltage is taken as that at which current first begins to flow then, according to the figure referred to, the distribution type (Curve 2) has a relief value of zero volts and the type S V and L V, 10 and 24 kv. respectively. From an examination of the curves, is it not true that these curves do not represent test results, but rather calculated curves based on theoretical considerations It is stated that the station type “closely parallels the electrolytic and therefore no curve is shown.” As shown, however, this cannot be the case, since as stated in Mr. Atherton's paper before the Institute in 1923, the arrester is designed for a so-called counter voltage of 25 per cent above the crest value of the rated voltage of the arrester. In this case, this gives about 13,000 volts, which is the value given in the paper. It should be remembered that this critical voltage is without the series line gap which adds materially to the voltage at which discharge begins."
"J. D. Hilliard: On Mr. Jenk's paper, I heartily concur in his final conclusions that the operator has not determined his breaker needs. It seems to me rather absurd that the whole line of stations should be held to the expense of building a breaker at a definite rating, to take care of the severe conditions of some particular circuit. It seems to me the thing to do is to get after the particular circuit and ease up on the condition."
"Recently, when the United States Championship Cowboy Rodeo Company gave a series of shows in the East, night performances were given under' perfect lighting conditions."
"Six hundred dollars a kilowatt-hour! Sounds like the cost of energy at the North Pole, yet that is the cost of the energy consumed by a vestpocket flashlight. This seems rather extravagant when compared with the central station rate for this same kilowatt hour. It is not excessive, however, because the tiny flashlight lamp uses such a small fraction of a kilowatt, so small in fact that the lamp will burn for 2000 hours on a single kilowatt-hour of energy. And as for results, the comfort, convenience and safety of a ready flashlight are worth much more than their actual cost."
"Hardly a city exists which does not have a prominent monument or monumental building. With a few scattered exceptions, all are obliterated by nightfall. During the day their beauty may be marred by the surroundings; at night they may be set free from their environment and made to stand nobly out as an inspiration to their beholders. If the building is a commercial one, as for example are the Woolworth tower of New York and the Wrigley tower of Chicago, the publicity gained by courageous floodlighting is beyond calculation."
"Arrangements are being completed for the Midwinter Convention which will be held in New York City, February 9th to 12th. Everything points to a most successful meeting. The entertainment committee has planned functions which will give much pleasure to those attending; a large number of inspection trips have been arranged and these are listed in following paragraphs. The technical papers are of excellent character. They cover such subjects as electrical machinery, instruments and measurements, electrophysics, communication, transmission, cables, storage batteries and statistical forecasting."
"A program of varied interest is being planned for the Spring Convention which will be held in St. Louis, April 13 to 17. As St. Louis is a center of power generation and industrial development a number of the papers will deal with these two phases of engineering. There will be papers on several new power plants and automatic stations. Sessions will be held, respectively, on mining and marine applications and papers are being planned on the uses of electricity in manufacturing rubber, cement, shoes, glass and paper. Several papers on electrical machinery, electro-magnetism and electrophysics are contemplated and there will be one session devoted to communication topics."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Washington, D. C., was the scene of a very successful regional meeting which was held on January 23 and 24 under the auspices of the Middle Eastern District of the Institute. The technical features consisted of six papers or addresses by prominent engineers. A delightful dinner was held at the Washington Hotel at which Herbert Hoover and Brigadier-General William. Mitchell made addresses. The inspection trips were of great interest and in all, the gathering was a splendid one."
"The nomination ballots for officers of the Institute will be mailed to the entire membership during the first week in February."
"A meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrieal Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, January 21 1925."
"The American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers will hold their annual meeting February 16–19, 1925 at the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th Street, New-York, N. Y."
"The twenty-first award of the John Fritz Gold Medal was made January 16 to JOHN FRANK STEVENS, of New York City, for great achievements as a Civil Engineer, particularly in planning and organizing for the construction of the Panama Canal; as a builder of railroads, and as administrator of the Chinese Eastern Railway."
"An electrical exhibition was held in the Dunham Laboratory of Electrical Engineering on Friday and Saturday evenings, December 12 and 13, 1924. The Yale Branch, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, directed the project. E. H. Eames, Chairman, and J. L. Biach, H. L. Elker, C. D. Geer, Jr., and F. F. Tomaino, Executive Committee. These men headed committees on Publicity, Laboratory Apparatus Demonstrations, Reception, Stunts, and Programs."
"To assist in the conduct of engineering research and to extend and strengthen the field of its graduate work in engineering The University of Illinois maintains fourteen Research Graduate Assistantships in the Engineering Experiment Station; two other such Assistantships are established under the patronage of the Illinois Gas Association. The annual stipend for these is $600, with exemption from all but the matriculation and diploma fees; open to graduates of all American and foreign universities. Nominations are made by the Executive Staff of the Station, and approved by the President of the University. The Engineering experiment Station, organized within the College of Engineering, has been established since 1903 for the study of problems of importance to engineers as well as manufacturing and industrial research work. Its field is almost unlimited in application, embracing all branches of the engineering profession. Communications may be addressed to The Director, Engineering Experiment Station, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois."
"The student branch of the University of Southern California accompanied Professor Biegler on an inspection trip to the Battleship U. S. S. Colorado, Dec. 17th, as guests of Lieutenant Commander Leighton, Chief Engineer Officer. Forty-six engineers took advantage of this opportunity to investigate thoroughly the turbo-generator power plant of this electrically driven ship. The U. S. S. Colorado being the latest electrically driven dreadnaught, offered the students an extensive field to study the latest developments and applications of the principles of marine power plant construction and operation."
"For the year of 1925, the Institute of Radio Engineers has elected the following officers: J. H. Dellinger President; Donald McNicol Vice-President; Alfred N. Goldsmith Secretary and W. F. Hubley Treasurer. Managers elected for the next term of service are: Melville Eastham, A. E. Reoch, H. W. Nichols, A. H. Grebe, L. A. Hazeltine, Lloyd Espenschied, J. V. L. Hogan, J. H. Morecroft and Edward Bennett. The Institute is an International organization established in 1912 with a membership now of about three thousand."
"On January 1, 1925 were organized, for the purpose of carrying on development and research activity in communication and allied fields The Bell Telephone Laboratories, Incorporated. This new company is owned jointly by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and the Western Electric Co., Inc., with personnel, buildings and equipment from the research laboratories of the two companies. Extensive laboratory facilities are already under way, with new buildings, covering almost a quarter of a city block, to be added to the 400,000 sq. ft. already in service at 463 West Street, New York City. At date of corporation, the personnel approximates 3600, two thousand of whom are members of the technical staff made up of engineers, physicists, chemists, metallurgists and experts in their various fields."
"Volume V of the “Annual tables of constant and numerical data — Physical, Chemical, and Technological,” — containing data for the years 1917 to 1922, — is now on the press."
"The Architectural and allied arts exposition will be held at the Grand Central Palace, New York, N. Y., April 20th to May 2, 1925. In addition to a comprehensive display of materials which make for the home, factory and businesss building, there will be home decoration, decorative tapestries, examples of landscaping, etc. The Annual International Conference on City Planning will be held within the Exposition and the Architectural League will unite with the American Institute of Architects holding their display in conjunction with the exposition."
"P. A. Merrick, vice-president and general manager of the Canadian Westinghouse Company, Hamiliton, Ont, has been elected vice-president and general manager of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company. He will have offices at East Pittsburgh and assume his new duties January 1st."
"The problems of the utilization of electrically-driven auxiliaries in steam generating stations are covered in a report entitled “Electrically driven auxiliaries for steam generating stations” prepared by the Electrical Apparatus Committee of the National Electric Light Association, and just published by them."
"Communication from Reginald A. Gladwell, Rugby, England, states that he is about to take position as Commercial Engineer on the Melbourne Office staff of the Australian General Electric Company."
"On the 25th day of December, 1924, A. Gero Schmidt, died at his home, 22 Carey Avenue, Wilkes Barre, Pa. Mr. Schmidt was born in Rome, Italy. He was a graduate of the Karlsruhe University, Germany. In 1912–14 he served an apprenticeship course at the Westinghouse works, Pittsburgh and in 1914 was made sales engineer, export department of the British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd., Manchester, England. In 1915–19 he served as an officer in the Italian Army, Engineers Corps and upon the termination of the war in 1919, was made Assistant to Manager and Chief Engineer, Societa Laziale di Elettricita, Rome, Italy. Mr. Schmidt was also a member of the Associazione Nazionale degli Ingegneri Italiani, Rome."
"The annual meeting of the American Engineering Council was held in Washington, D. C., January 16–17, 1925. About one hundred delegates of the twenty-nine societies represented upon Council were in attendance, and President James Hartness presided. The representatives of the A. I. E. E. present were Messrs.: C. A. Adams, C. G. Adsit, Arthur W. Berresford, John H. Finney, P. L. Hutchinson, D. C. Jackson, William McClellan, Parley Osgood, Charles F. Scott, and C. E. Skinner."
"The appointment of a committee to study the entire aircraft situation has been announced by the Engineering Council. The chosen chairman is Joseph W. Roe, professor of Industrial Engineering, New York University."
"Looking toward worldwide work along standardization lines, the American Engineering Standards Committee elicit cooperation with all interests, both here and abroad. The importance of the work of standardization is becoming more and more pronounced; already 70 standards have been approved by the A. E. S. C. and 100 others are under way. In the mining world, the pioneer work was done by the U. S. Bureau of Mines and then the American Mining Congress. The work of the National Screw Threads Commission in the mechanical field, has also been of great importance. And Standardization carries heavily into public safety questions such as the unification of colors in traffic signals, etc. Secretary Hoover contends that in the general problem the number of fatalities is one third, and those wounded, one and one half times the corresponding American losses in the World War which is certainly a fact in emphasis of the importance of standard safety measures. A program of 4.0 industrial safety codes, most of which are applicable to factories is underway; Thirteen have been completed and the remainder are well advanced. This includes lighting and other work done in schools. Standardization activities in foreign industrial countries continue to increase, among the newest national organizations are those in Czechoslovakia and Japan. In all, there are nineteen national standardizing bodies, as follows: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Holland, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland and the United States. The vital importance of the work cannot be overestimated."
"If our country is to continue its beneficient progress, the advance of the engineering profession cannot be slackened is the sentiment voiced by Alfred W. Flinn, Director of the Engineering Foundation. If professional progress is to continue, the national societies must have the benefit of a sustained, considered, coordinated program of research, and for this, large funds are needed."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, NY. All members are urged to notify the Institute headquarters promptly of any change in mailing or business address, thus relieving the members of needless annoyance and also assuring the prompt delivery of Institute mail, the accuracy of our mailing records, and the elimination of unnecessary expense for postage and clerical work."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"The Forty-First Annual Convention of our Institute is now a matter of history and can be recorded as a highly successful affair from every standpoint and marks a further step of progress toward the type of convention which seems particularly suited to the present needs of Institute work. The better coordinated opinion of the Section delegates from all over the country indicates a clear understanding of the Institute's activities and aspirations, and one of the most important actions at the Delegates' Conference was the resolution endorsing regional meetings under the procedure as prescribed by the Board, after two years' trial with complete success, proving that the Institute is making no mistake in its plan for bringing out in a better and broader way the work of the whole membership. The report from nearly all delegates of cooperative local meetings with members of other societies shows that the Institute is trying to do its part in putting to use for the general good its technical experience and judgment."
"Bion J. Arnold, the sixteenth president of the Institute, was born in Casnovia, Michigan, August 14, 1861. His early education was gained in the public schools of Ashland, Nebraska. later attending the University of Nebraska and Hillsdale (Michigan) College, from which he received the degree of B. S. in 1884 and M. S. in 1887. In 1888–89 he took a post-graduate course in electrical engineering at Cornell University."
"At the meeting of the U. S. National Committee held on June 4th in the Engineering Societies Building, New York City, certain changes were made in the officers. The resignation of S. G. Rhodes from the offices of Secretary and Treasurer was accepted with regret by the committee and in electing successors to him, it was felt desirable to elect an individual to each office. F. V. Magalhaes of The New York Edison Company was elected to the office of Secretary and H. S. Osborne of the American Telephone & Telegraph Company was elected Treasurer."
"It seems fitting at this time to bring to your attention, very briefly, some of the outstanding results of the work of the membership of our Institute during the administrative year just closing."
"The Department of Commerce announces that, according to returns received at the annual census of manufacturers of lighting equipment, the total value of such equipment made during 1924 was $205,866,358, an increase of 13.8 per cent as compared with $180,926,000 in 1923. Reports were received from 720 establishments for 1924, as compared with 732 for the preceding year."
"This plant is the second to be built by this Company well outside the corporate limits of Detroit, the two being connected by a 120-kv. tower line arranged for supplying suburban areas and the outer part of the city. The plant has a planned ultimate capacity of 800,000 kw. It contains both d-c. and a-c. house service, turbine-driven units and nearly all important variable speed auxiliaries are driven by d-c. motors. Coal is used in pulverized form, the paper giving the conclusions which led to its adoption."
"The progress of practically all electrical apparatus is, to a large degree dependent on progress in insulation. The successful selection and use of insulation, particularly insulation operated with maximum economy as in the case of static condensers, depends on our progress in the understanding of the factors on which insulation quality depends. The hysteresis loss is definitely related to the phenomenon of absorption or residual charge, especially when the residual voltage quickly builds up. In order to further analyze dielectric losses, and study the progress of treatment of insulation, a device has been developed for measuring dielectric absorption. This article describes the “Dielectric Lag Meter” and gives some test data secured by it."
"The Pacific Coast Board has placed an order for a new submarine cable to be laid in the Pacific Ocean from Victoria, Canada, to Suva, capital of the Fiji Islands. The southern section of this cable, running from Fanning Island to Suva, will be inductively loaded with permalloy, the newly discovered magnetic alloy."
"Government control of all broadcasting activities in Denmark for the period of one year, namely, from April 1, 1925, to March 31, 1926, was recently put into effect. A special board of some 27 members, including, among others, Government officials, representatives of the various radio organizations, the press, and prominent professional singers has been appointed to take charge of the preparation of all radio programs."
"This paper presents the results of a large amount of theoretical study and a large number of tests to determine the advantages of hydrogen as a cooling medium in electrical machiney. The conclusions fall into two classes, some definite and some speculative. In the former class are: 1. For the same operating temperature a steam turbine-driven generator of a given size will have a capacity at least 30 per cent greater when operated in hydrogen than when operated in air. 2. The efficiency will be 1 per cent or more higher. 3. There will be no danger of fire destroying the insulation. 4. The detrimental effects of corona if present will be greatly reduced. 5. The machine may be protected by suitable devices from the formation of an explosive mixture of hydrogen and air. 6. The frame can be made sufficiently strong to resist an explosion. This is additional security in case of failure of the protective devices or negligence in operation. 7. The cooler for removing the heat from the hydrogen may be considerably smaller than a cooler for removing heal from air. In the speculative class are: 1. A hydrogen pressure of several atmospheres will result in still greater possibilities provided a sufficiently gas tight enclosure can be developed. 2. The insulation may be made thinner and still have as long a life as the present insulations operated in air."
"New York City will, within the next year, be the scene of a notable advance in the transmission of electrical power and will have what unquestionably will be the most closely knit, most flexible, and thereby most efficient electrical generating and distributing system of any city in the world. This will come about as the result of the installation in the Bronx of an underground cable line which will be operated at 132,000 volts or twice the pressure of the highest-voltage underground cable line now used commercially anywhere in the world."
"The paper discusses a method for determining the separate leakage reactances of transformer windings, originally suggested in 1921 by W. V. Lyon.2 The method is applicable only to three-phase banks of three identical transformers, and makes use of the third harmonic electromotive force and current which are introduced into the windings by the inherent magnetizing characteristics of the iron. Attempts made to determine the separate leakage reactances of a single transformer did not meet with success. The method may be used both with “two-winding” and “multiwinding” transformers. However, it is particularly convenient when the transformers have more than two windings. Laboratory tests have been made on small experimental, two-winding and three-winding transformers, and field tests on a bank of three-winding power transformers. The results in each case warrant the conclusion that the separate leakage reactances may be obtained with sufficient accuracy for engineering purposes."
"Your invitation to deliver the first Steinmetz lecture I consider a very great honor. The late Doctor Steinmetz was a dear friend of mine. I met him in Yonkers in 1889, and from that time on until his death we were tied to each other by bonds of personal sympathy and scientific interest, which was a source of uninterrupted pleasure to both of us."
"The electric energy now produced at Niagara Falls is less than that provided by nature in the thunder storms always in progress throughout the world, is the assertion of F. W. Peek, Jr., consulting engineer of the Pittsfield Works of the General Electric Company, in an address at a joint meeting of the Detroit and Ann Arbor Sections of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers on Tuesday night, May 26, Ann Arbor, Michigan. The talk, “Lightning and Other High-Voltage Phenomena,” described the interesting work of investigation which is being carried on with artificial lightning generators in the Pittsfield laboratory."
"There is no problem relating to marine electrification which is of more importance than that of the engineering and operating personnel. At the present time no adequate provision is made by law to give assurance that the operator of an electrical plant on shipboard is fully qualified. Private or individual supervision of the necessary qualifications is not adequate; a definite legal status is essential. Efforts which are going forward at present to secure proper supervision over the qualifications of electrical operators, and of the maintenance of the electrical plant are deserving of all possible support."
"The general principle of changing the ratio of power transformers without interrupting the load, by means of transformer taps and a multiple circuit, is described. Although this principle is not new, a detailed description of the characteristics of this method of securing voltage control is desirable on account of the increasing number of applications to large power transformers."
"The world's largest locomotive, an electric giant 152 feet long, weighing 1,275,900 pounds and with a rating of 7125 horse power, underwent its first running test May 14 on the Westinghouse electric test track."
"This paper is an outline of the oil-circuit-breaker situation from the operator's standpoint, particularly with reference to interrupting duty, as it appears today to the author. It is not an original study, but rather an assembly of previously existing information, and is arranged by topics with a view to bringing out a large amount of discussion, in the hope that it may result in further clarifying the very complex problem of interrupting electric currents. The topics taken up are as follows: I Factors determining interrupting capacity, namely intensity and duration of the arc. II-III Essential features of breaker design and their functions. IV Factors affecting interrupting duly, with especial emphasis on effect on same of system and fault grounding conditions. V Relations between interrupting ratings and costs. VI Status of interrupting ratings with reference to maximum nature of such ratings and facts upon which they are based; relative ratings on different operating duties and desirable modifications in method of rating. VII Applications, particularly possibilities for improved practise in future and necessity of adequate maintenance on all breakers in service."
"R. E. Ferris: Mr. Rylander's paper is the result of one of a series of tests being carried on covering the general subject of the effect of vibration on the insulation and windings of rotating electrical apparatus."
"V. Karapetoff. The method of solution of the problem of power surges, developed by the authors, may be called that of solution of differential equations by finite increments. While in the paper the differential equations themselves are not written down explicitly, they are understood to hold true. These equations express the condition that an excess of mechanical energy, applied to a synchronous machine, partly accelerates (or retards) its revolving masses, partly is delivered to the bus through a change in the torque angle, and the rest is delivered to the bus through the asynchronous action of the damper winding2."
"J. Lyman: To obtain the minimum concentration of power is an everpresent problem in the design of large power stations, substations, and distribution systems. A circuit breaker must be built, capable of opening its circuit, under any short-circuit conditions, but more serious than the problem of designing adequate circuit breakers are the electrical and mechanical shocks that may be transmitted to the entire electrical system from a modern bulk-power station, or to a power distribution and transmission system, tying-in several such great stations. At least 0.3 sec. elapses before a circuit breaker can operate. During this time the full force of the shock is imparted to the entire system."
"S. H. Mortensen: Mr. Wieseman's paper brings out, clearly, the fact that two-speed synchronous motors can be built economically, and that a machine of this kind properly proportioned will practically maintain all the virtues of the standard salient-pole synchronous motor. The field of application for a motor of this kind is at the present time rather limited. The only application the speaker can think of in addition to the ones Mr. Wieseman has mentioned is that for driving two-speed pumps such as are sometimes used with condenser installations."
"V. E. Thelin: One of my duties with the street railway system in Chicago is that of telephone engineer. I find that there is a particular class of work in our company in which we are at a great disadvantage; namely, that of keeping in touch with the line-construction trucks, wrecking trucks, as we use the term i. e., trucks that go out and take care of accidents on the road and with our emergency trucks that repair trolley breaks, etc. I was wondering if it is possible to use the d-c. feeder network as a conductor for carrier-wave transmission as is now being done by power distribution companies on their high-voltage transmission lines. This d-c. feeder network totals approximately 1000 mi. of single track and loops into some thirty-three substations, which possibly complicates matters."
"S. P. Shackelton: When any device, which differs as fundamentally from the existing order of things as the echo suppressor is introduced into a working system there will arise problems as to its practical application. To a very large extent these problems have been met in the installation at Harrisburg which is referred to in the paper. It may be profitable to review somewhat the experience obtained in that installation."
"C. Lees The last paragraph of Mr. Clark's interesting paper brings out a point that has not been considered of much weight in the past, but which has recently been taken into account in some installations of gathering locomotives. It should be considered in all cases."
"L. W. W. Morrow: It occurred to me that it might be possible to use the vibration recorder to study vibration effects in large machines used in engineering work."
"G. R. Gosrean: A three-cornered compromise between the electrical engineer, the metallurgical engineer and the power companies has made the electric heating industry as successful as it is today, and will make it more successful in the time to come."
"R. N. Falge: Mr. Hunt points out that with headlamp beams which meet the I. E. S.-S. A. E. specifications at the B point (175 ft. ahead of the car) the vision of distant objects is interfered with by high road brightness near the ear. It is true that this criticism applies to some of the equipments which meet that specification, but only because they are poorly designed. The fault is not with the intensity directed to the B point but rather because of the excessive intensities directed to the lower angles and striking the road near the car. Such undesirable light distribution is not at all inherent in the specifications. The better equipments follow the S. A. E. Recommended Practice which provides for a relatively high intensity at the B point and a gradual reduction in intensity at the lower angles to provide satisfactory uniformity of road illumination for distances of several hundred feet ahead of the car."
"H. N. Shaw: The maximum temperature of electric furnaces is fixed by the limitations of the heating elements available. Above 2000 deg. fahr. metallic elements are impractical due to their loss of mechanical strength, but non-metallic elements are now available which are practical for use in industrial furnaces operating at temperatures up to 2500 deg. fahr."
"H. N. Shaw: I should like to ask what the over-all efficiency of that high-frequency induction furnace really is? That is, the ratio of the B. t. u. put into the motor to the B. t. u. actually developed in the iron of the furnace. It seems to me that there would he other applications if that efficiency is at all high. Offhand, it would seem to me to be quite low."
"Standardization has been cited many times as one of the reasons for the extensive application and low cost of an article which is widely used by the public. It has become a factor of ever increasing importance to modern industry and is one of the foundation stones upon which large industrial and commercial enterprises are based. In the manufacture of everything from structual steel and automobiles to watches and chewing gum, it plays a large and important part — and in the lamp manufacturing industry, along with all the others, it has become a veritable watchword of progress and service."
"An electrically illuminated pan-chromatic fountain adorns the plaza in front of the Union Railroad Station at Dallas, Texas. This fountain consists of a large basin, fifty feet in diameter, inside of which is an elevated inner basin fourteen and one-half feet across. From the center of this basin a jet of water rises to a height of seventy-five feet, illumined to the very top by beams of light, constantly changing color, from four powerful incandescent searchlights concealed in a glass-covered room beneath the fountain. The effect is further enhanced by eight small jets rising from the large basin, each lighted from beneath by the colored light from a 500-watt lamp, while eight dolphins in the small basin throw streams toward the central jet."
"The A. I. E. E. Annual Convention held last month at Saratoga Springs, N. Y., adds another success to the long list of important and notable gatherings of the Institute. There were about 900 members and guests registered, and both the technical sessions and the excursions, as well as the numerous entertainment features, were marked by an enthusiastic attendance. The committee reports and papers presented at the morning sessions drew out excellent discussions, much of which had been prepared in advance, and the Monday conferences of section delegates, officers and members of the Institute, for the consideration of Institute affairs, were entered into with an earnestness that bespeaks a most healthful condition of Institute activities."
"Plans for the Pacific Coast Convention are progressing with gratifying promise. The meeting will be held in Seattle, starting September 15th and lasting four days."
"Men of national prominence will attend and participate in the program of the Summer meeting of the Civil Engineers, July 8–10, at Salt Lake City. The History of Irrigation Development of the West in its varying phases will be discussed by such men as Elwood Mead, Commissioner of Irrigation; Col. William Kelley, for several years chief engineer of the Federal Power Commission; John A. Widtsoe, member of the commission recently appointed to study reclamation needs; Samuel Fortier, Associate Chief of the Division of Agricultural Engineering, U. S. Agricultural Dept., and Frederick Newell and Arthur P. Davis who, between them, have headed the United States Reclamation service for the past twenty years. Many other subjects of importance to the West, such as power, steam regulation and highway and city planning, will also be discussed by men prominent in their respective fields. Thursday afternoon, and Friday, July 10th, will be devoted to sight seeing, inspection trips and general diversion. At noon on Wednesday July 8th, the meeting will adjourn to attend an organ recital in the famous Mormon Tabernacle, after which opportunity will be given to the engineers to inspect the unique construction of the roof of this edifice."
"The seventieth meeting of the American Chemical Society will be held at Los Angeles during the week of August 8th; it is expected that more than 1500 scientists from the United States and Canada will attend. The central theme will be “The Mystery of Matter,” and at the big general meeting Doctor W. R. Whitney, director of the research laboratories of the General Electric Company, will deliver what is announced as an “illustrated experimental address” on “Matter — Is there Anything in It?” Other speakers at the meeting will be Prof. Alexander Findley of the University of Aberdeen, Scotland and Prof. Alonzo B. Taylor of Stanford University. Many interesting subjects have been chosen for presentation and discussion, including several agricultural applications of the profession, German competition with the American wood alcohol industry, the progress of dyes in treating diseases, developments in the quest of a new and cheaper motor fuel and the general expansion of the chemical science both in industry and education."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the United States Hotel, Saratoga Springs, N. Y., on Thursday, June 25, 1925. There were present: President Farley Osgood, Newark, N. J. — Vice-Presidents, H. E. Bussey, Atlanta; Harold B. Smith, Worcester, Mass.; J. E. Macdonald, Los Angeles; S. E. M. Henderson, Toronto; H. W. Eales, St. Louis; L. F. Morehouse, New York — Managers, G. L. Knight, Brooklyn, N. Y.; H. M. Hobart, E. B. Merriam, Schenectady; R. B. Williamson, Milwaukee; J. M. Bryant, Austin, Tex.; A. G. Pierce, Cleveland; John B. Whitehead, Baltimore — National Secretary F. L. Hutchinson, New York. Present by invitation. Past-Presidents Comfort A. Adams, Cambridge, Mass.; A. W. Berresford, Niagara Falls — President-elect M. I. Pupin, New York — Managers-elect, M. M. Fowler, Chicago; E. C. Stone, Pittsburgh; and C. E. Skinner, Chairman, American Engineering Standards Committee, Pittsburgh."
"The Commission of Washington Award for 1925 was voted to Jonas Waldo Smith, Consulting Engineer for the Board of Water Supply, New York City. Presentation of the award was made at the 55th Annual Dinner of the Western Society of Engineers, Chicago, June 3, 1925. The award was made to Mr. Smith “For the rare combination of vision, technical skill, administrative ability and courageous leadership in engineering.” Following a wide experience in similar fields, Mr. Smith, in 1905, was made Chief Engineer of the world's largest water works, the additional supply for the City of New York from the Catskill Mountains. Up to 1917 this project involved the expenditure of $175,000,000 for work performed on schedule time and this was at a cost of about $9,000,000 less than the original estimates."
"Adhering to their established custom, the Associated Engineers of Spokane, on May 1st, 1925, paid their annual visit to the University of Idaho and the State College of Washington. Taking an early start, the party passed the night at Lewiston and spent the following morning in sightseeing which included inspection of interesting power developments there. About noon on May 2d, they arrived at the State College, Pullman, Washington, where further activities were enjoyed. At both Universities interesting exhibits had been prepared by the students of the various departments, with entire responsibility upon them for collection, arrangements and success of the undertaking. The interest taken by this group of Associated Engineers, miners, foresters and architects in the work of the Universities is most commendable and should have strong and favorable influence on the respective student bodies, toward stimulating activity."
"Doctor H.B. Dwight of the Canadian Westinghouse Company has been awarded the 1924 Geographical District prize of District No. 10 (Canada), for his paper entitled “Questions of Practical Interest in Transmission and Distribution,” as submitted to the Toronto Section on November 21, 1924."
"Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and readers of its Journal will be interested to know that the National Government has educated for the engineering profession hundreds of men, and that the Government still has in training for this profession many hundreds more."
"A revision of the Illuminating Engineering Nomenclature and Photometric Standards has been approved by the American Engineering Standards Committee as “American Standard.” The work includes the definition of present terms as well as a few additional ones used in illuminating engineering and photometry, together with the formulation of general principles to govern the measurement of light and illumination and the application of such measurements in practise."
"The recommendations of the Sectional Committee of the American Engineering Standards Committee on Standard Connections and Marking of Terminals of Electric Power Apparatus were approved as American Standards in April 1925 by the Main Committee of the A. E. S. A. The Sectional Committee under the sponsorship of the Electric Power Club, was made up of representatives from the following organizations: The Association of Edison Illuminating Companies, American Electric Railway Association, Associated Manufacturers of Electrical Supplies, National Electric Light Association, U. S. Bureau of Standards, Electric Power Club and American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Those interested in obtaining copies of this American Standard should write to Electric Power Club, B. F. Keith Building, Cleveland, Ohio. Price 35 cents."
"At the request of and in cooperation with the North Central Division of the National Electric Light Association, plans are being made for conducting a school for meter-men at the University of Minnesota, to be held in the new Electrical Building during the week of September 21 to 26, 1925. Assistant Professor M. E. Todd will have immediate charge of the course, and inquiries should be directed to the General Extension Division, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Before its public announcement, something over thirty men had expressed their intention of enrolling for this course."
"G.E. Sanderson of the New York Office of the Wagner Electric Company has been appointed Branch Manager of the Syracuse Office."
"Leonardo de Albuquerque Cavalcanti, while supervising the termination of the trolley line for the second electrified section of the Paulista Railway, Brazil, the construction of which he had just completed, came in contact with a high-voltage line and was instantly killed. Born in Sao Paulo, Brazil, July 1, 1892, Mr. Cavalcanti's early education was through the Bacheral in Science at Saint Louis College, Brazil. He next took a four years' course in Civil Engineering at McKenzie College, Brazil, before coming to the United States to enter a three years' post graduate course in the School of Electrical Engineering, Princeton University. In 1916, the Charles Ira Young medal for Electrical Research was awarded him. This was the year of his graduation from Princeton and for the thesis presented for his electrical engineering degree he chose the subject of investigation to determine the thermal and electrical conductivity separately, and also the ratio of the thermal to the electrical conductivity of pure Acheson graphite by the Kohlrausch method. In the summer of 1914, he joined the Western Electric Company at Cicero, Illinois, and for a year, before returning to his own country was with the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co. of Pittsburgh. Upon his return to South America, he became assistant engineer for the Cia. Compineneira de Luz e Forca and later, in 1920, was asked by the superintendent of the Paulista Railway to take charge of a new electrification construction plant. It was here that he met his death. Mr. Cavalcanti became an Associate of the Institute in 1916, the year of his graduation from Princeton, and his activities in the profession seemed to promise much."
"Technical Terms for Electrical Communication A small, handy English-German dictionary for German speaking people interested primarily in the field of communication has been prepared by G. Sattelberg, of the Telegraphentechnische Reichsamt, Berlin, and is available through the publisher, Julius Springer, Berlin, Germany. This dictionary has been developed from such references as Steinmetz's Theory of Calculation of A-C Phenomena; Morecroft's Principles of Radio Communication; Marconi's Yearbook; Works of the British Engineering Standards Association; Journal of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, the Radio Review of London, the Journal of the A. I. E. E. and numerous other well-known sources of technical information, and should be a valuable compilation to those interested."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 160,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repealed, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $8 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"American scientists and engineers feel and have for a long time felt the need of closer contacts and cooperation. The American Association for the Advancement of Science was intended from its very beginning to establish these contacts. It is one of the oldest scientific associations in this country; considerably older than any one of our engineering societies. During its early history it was the only scientific association in which scientists and engineers met and discussed the problems of pure and applied science. Since the organization of the engineering societies engineers began to devote a more and more exclusive attention to these specialized organizations and less to the national society which is devoted to the general interests of science. In order to counteract this perfectly natural tendency, an engineering section was established in the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Through the members of this section the voice of the engineers was heard and attentively listened to at the annual meetings of the Association. These annual meetings offer a splendid opportunity to the scientists and the engineers to address themselves to the American nation on subjects of science and engineering which are of immediate interest to our nation. Our nation recognizes that the American Association is a truly national organization; that explains why among its membership there are many who are not professional scientists or engineers. Their membership is due to their general interest in American science. In this respect the American Association for the Advancement of Science resembles very much the British Association for the Advancement of Science. There is, however, one significant difference between them. The British Association, it is believed, receives a more enthusiastic support from the British engineers than the American Association receives from the American engineers. This belief is encouraged by the fact that the British scientific weekly, Nature, is more widely read among British engineers than the American scientific weekly, Science, is read among American engineers. These two scientific periodicals are devoted to the general interests of science in a similar manner as the two national associations, the American and the British Association, are devoted to them. From that point of view we may say that the two periodicals are the mouthpieces of these two Associations. The fact that Nature is superior to Science is generally admitted. Let us also admit for the sake of argument that the average quality of the scientific men who contribute to Nature is superior to the average quality of the scientific men who contribute to Science. This admission will not entirely explain the superiority of Nature to Science. There must be another cause for this superiority. Those who have studied this subject carefully are inclined to think that the interest of the American engineer in Science is not as lively as that of British engineer is in Nature. Hence Nature has a much larger number of subscribers than Science has, and, other things being equal, the periodical with the larger number of subscribers will be superior to that having the smaller number of subscribers."
"This paper deals with the troubles one of the large power companies in New England has encountered from sleet and ice on transmission lines. The experience of this company should bring home to the transmission line designer the fact that in certain parts of the country sleet is a very serious problem and should be taken into account in designing all new transmission lines. It also shows the necessity for looking over the existing transmission systems with a view to providing some quick and easy method of thawing sleet from the lines already constructed."
"(Swampscott, Mass., May 7, 1925) L. W. W. Morrow: The Pennsylvania Power & Light System, as well as other companies in central Pennsylvania, have encountered this sleet problem for several years, and have introduced a method of combating sleet which I think will prove of interest. It is somewhat along the same lines as the method used by the New England Power Company."
"Just as airplanes equipped with special cameras were used during the World War to learn of conditions along front line trenches and in No Man's Land, they are now being employed in preliminary surveys of areas where hydroelectric developments are under consideration."
"PROGRESS in the art of steam station design and operation has been so rapid as to rather bewilder even the men who are giving their whole time and thought to this work. We have grown quite accustomed to seeing our dreams become actualities almost over night. The past year has witnessed the actual generation of power in an 80,000-kw. generating station at a coal rate of kw-hr. 20 per cent lower than any previous performance on a commercial scale. May we with confidence look forward to further gains of the same magnitude? May we expect that each new station built will establish a new record for operating performance? Why does each new steam generating station differ so radically from those already built? If we are to answer these questions, we must evaluate the present day tendencies, look backward a bit to see how far we have come, and attempt to look forward."
"The adding of telephotographic service to commercial communication facilities has recently been announced by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Picture transmitting and receiving apparatus has been permanently installed at New York, Chicago and San Francisco where public offices have been opened to accept material for such transmission."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe the Commonwealth Edison Company's 60-cycle distribution system. Energy for this system is generated in five stations and transmitted at 12,000 volts, three-phase, to manually-operated and remote-control substations, the operation of the remote-control substations being under the control of the manually-operated substations by means of control wire and selector switch operation. The larger customers are supplied by means of industrial substations located upon their premises and fed from 12,000-volt, three-phase, underground loop circuits; the general load is supplied by means of 2300/4000-volt, three-phase, four-wire radial circuits from the various manually-operated and remote-control substations. The generator capacity was 420,000 kv-a. and the maximum load 379,000 kv-a., as of January 1,1925, for the 60-cycle portion of the system, exclusive of load carried upon the 25-cycle and d-c. portions of the plant. Reliability of service is provided by relay-controlled oil switches, current-limiting reactors, duplicate supply lines, and lie points for interconnection of different parts of the system. The rapid growth of load density in some sections of Chicago will soon necessitate modification of the present distribution system by either an increase of distribution voltage or an increase of circuit capacity. The advantages and disadvantages of the two proposed new systems are now under consideration."
"A new type of mercury contact flasher, designed for lighting devices for warning and controlling motor traffic has recently been put into service."
"THE conditions under which electric service is furnished in Southern California differ somewhat from other sections of the country. The pumping of water for irrigation has created a demand for electric power throughout the rural districts. Lines extended for that service have made electricity available for domestic purposes which, in themselves, would not have justified the extension of the lines. Records show that the electric development which has taken place under these conditions has resulted in a use of electric energy per capita per annum exceeding any other community in the United States, comparison being as follows:"
"At Cherokee Bluffs, one of the most isolated places of Alabama, an artificial lake, which will have a shoreline 700 miles long and cover 40,000 acres of land, is being built. When completed in 1926 it will provide water to drive three 45,000 horse power electric generators."
"General description of practise of the San Joaquin Light & Power Corporation in serving rural distribution. Describes an 11,500-volt fuse manufactured by the company, shows standard transformer sizes used for serving combination loads and describes methods of hot wire maintenance used, together with data on savings accomplished by the use of hot wire tools."
"A new type of engineering course embodying the basic features of the six-year combined college and engineering course, but possible of completion by a high-school graduate in the usual four year period is described. Briefly, the plan for admission to the engineering school requires at least two years of college training with only part of the subjects prescribed. This is followed by two years in the engineering school, concentrated on the fundamentals of whatever particular branch of engineering (civil, mechanical, electrical or chemical) the student may choose. Beginning this fall, the University of Pennsylvania will change over all its engineering courses to this basis. Those responsible for this new type of course believe that it will accomplish the following objects: 1. It will give the student the. opportunity of forming a more mature judgment as to whether or not he has an aptitude for engineering, and if not, permit him to continue his studies along other lines without serious handicap. 2. It will impress upon both the student and his parents the fact that engineering is a profession and not a trade; that there is more to an engineering education than merely fitting a boy to get a job. 3. The graduate from this type of course will be as well prepared for his immediate undertaking as the usual technical school graduate, and, in addition, will have the background and broader point of view necessary for real development in his profession. 4. This background and broader point of view will aid him in developing a proper perspective of life as a whole, which, after all, is more important than one's profession."
"The conclusion has been reached that birds are the cause of flashovers on the Southern California Edison line. The frequency and location of flashovers is given for nine years of operation at 150 kv. and two years at 220 kv. The increase in the number of flashovers when first going to 220 kv. has been reduced so that now there is no greater number than there was at 150 kv. This has been done by installing bird guards which are, however, not yet completely bird proof. Other possible causes of flashovers are considered, including corona, standing and traveling waves of high voltage, harmonic resonance, sustained high-frequency effects, lightning, and highly ionized air. Investigations to discover the presence of such disturbances are described; they included the use of a homemade photographic surge recorder, the klydonograph, and oscillograph. The amplitude of voltage surges caused by various switching operations and the quantity of tertiary and residual current at the different stations on the system are tabulated. The conclusions reached are that there are not any voltage disturbances of greater magnitude than those produced by normal switching, and that such voltage rises as do occur are totally inadequate to cause flashovers or cause any damage to connected apparatus. The evidence is all against the existence of sustained high-frequency currents or voltages and it may be stated confidently that they do not exist."
"THE work of this committee is, of necessity, limited very largely to the securing of papers from representative mining engineers."
"A unique electrical installation, consisting of an underwater illumination system, has recently been placed in operation in a large bathing pool in the vicinity of San Diego, California. Embedded in the walls of this pool is a set of large flood lights, placed at a depth of 9 feet. The lighting units are enclosed in a large pyramid-shaped casting, having a vent at the top leading through a goose-neck to a manhole back of the pool walls. The lamp unit is protected from the water by an 18-inch disk of Pyrex glass 7/16 inches thick. Difficulties as to the cracking of heavy plate glass had been numerous until the adoption of the heat-resisting glass. Water on one side of the glass at low temperature and the heat generated by a 500-watt lamp in the unit on the other side of the glass, together with moisture, condensation, and other mechanical factors, have. provided considerable basis for experimentation on this installation."
"The paper presents the results of wattmeter measurements of iron loss in a small experimental reactor designed for a-c. and d-c. excitations. All the resistances were measured by the d-c. voltmeter-ammeter method, and the I2 R losses were subtracted from the total wattmeter readings. A-c. core losses are plotted against d-c. excitation for various a-c. flux densities. These curves were checked qualitatively by means of hysteresis loops taken with a special bilateral oscillograph. All results show a comparatively small change in core loss as d-c. excitation is added, the core loss even showing a decrease when the a-c. saturation is high. The core loss proper is distinguished from the double frequency circulating current copper loss, and means are given for decreasing this I2 B loss."
"At a meeting of the International Executive Committee of the World Power Conference held in London, July 27–30, an invitation was presented by Dr. E. Tissot on behalf of the Swiss National Committee to hold the Second World Power Conference at Basle in 1926. It was considered advisable, however, to allow a longer period to elapse between plenary sessions. In the interval sectional meetings might be held, and it was decided that such a meeting should be held in Basle next year. The subjects recommended for consideration include the development of hydroelectric power combined with navigation, the financial and legal aspects of inter-exchange of electric power between countries, the economic relation between water power and thermal power, electricity in agriculture, and railway electrification. It was decided that, subject to reconsideration, the Second World Power Conference should be held in 1930. — World Power."
"IN accordance with a practise established over a number of years, the work of the Committee on Protective Devices has been delegated to a number of subcommittees, the division being made with reference to the nature of the subject covered. Complete reports from each of these subcommittees are appended."
"Progress in Standardization. Interrupting rating of oil-circuit breakers was defined by the Protective Devices Committee last year. This definition has now received all of the necessary approvals and is before the Standards Committee for final adoption."
"In some localities radio reception is seriously disturbed by interference arising from electrical apparatus in the vicinity. Part of the disturbance from electrical devices is practically inevitable, and, like atmospheric disturbances, must be regarded as one of the inherent limitations of radio reception. Some electrical devices when in perfect working order cause disturbances of this kind, while others cause interference because of their faulty operation. The only general remedy for electrical interference is cooperative effort on the part of users of radio, users and owners of the electrical sources of disturbance, and distributers of electrical power, to reduce or eliminate the causes of the trouble. In many cases it is possible to provide filters, shelds, chokes, etc., either at the source of disturbance or at the receiving set, which do much to relieve the difficulties."
"Regulating the voltage of high-voltage transmission lines is now possible by means of taps in the step-up transformers through which the ratio is changed without disconnecting the transformers from service nor interrupting the load. The methods of obtaining this result, herein described, are the results of the development of suitable ratio adjusters and a properly timed mechanism including circuit-breaking devices. The scheme is applicable to units of any size or to existing banks of transformers by the addition of a regulating auto transformer. The range of application has also been extended to include the field of electrolytic reduction and little doubt is held that this very flexible scheme of voltage regulation will fill a long felt need by many generating and distributing systems. Several installations are already in successful operation and a considerable number are now in the process of construction and operation."
"One of the largest hydroelectric power plants on the North American continent is about to be constructed approximately 135 miles north of the city of Vancouver at Seton Lake, the Department of Commerce is informed by Consul E. L. Harris, Vancouver. Within the next five years it is planned to spend $13,000,000 in the development of the first unit. Sixty thousand horse power will be available from this new installation. Additional units may be installed later."
"IT may seem trite to assert the interdependence of engineering research and engineering education, and no doubt most workers in the vinyard would consider the title of this paper as axiomatic, — the statement of a self-evident fact. In theory the great majority of the members of our engineering faculties, as well as practising engineers, who have given time and thought to the training of young men for the engineering profession, readily subscribe to statements emphasizing the importance of research as a factor in engineering education; but in practise — well, “the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.”"
"St. Louis, Mo., April 14, 1925 J. S. Martin (communicated after adjournment): I have been especially interested in the authors' methods of calculation of the sags required in the wire, as this is a subject of which I have made considerable study. In the proceedings of the Engineering Society of Western Pennsylvania for November 1922, I published a tabular method of calculating sag including a set of tables giving the functions of the catenary in the same manner that the ordinary trigonometrical tables give the functions of the circle. By means of these tables the sag required for any span and any wire can be quickly and accurately determined when the span is level. For the calculation of spans on the slope, the writer has resorted to an approximate method which gives results as close as the work of sagging can be done in the field and in nearly all cases the slight error is on the safe side."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 26, 1925 W. C. Peterman: This paper treats of a phase of communication that apparently has not kept pace with the advances in other methods of communication. Numerous inquiries have been directed in recent years about the cause of this apparent lack of progress in the field of cable telegraphy. As a matter of fact, a very considerable progress has been made in the past 10 or 15 years. The improvements in this period, principally in the terminal apparatus, repeating apparatus and operating methods, resulted in a substantial increase of speed and a reduction cf operating cost. There were, among others, the introduction of a successful relay to automatically connect two. cable sections, the development of an amplifier suitable for cable conditions, and the improvement in the design and use of artificial cables for duplexing."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 25, 1925 A. H. Kehoe: If one first reads the conclusions of this paper (which are carefully drawn) he is apt to take a more generous view of the statements which appear earlier in the text. For instance, the emphasis on cost of making system changes is well placed."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 25, 1925 W. S. Edsall: We feel that there is not a great deal in this paper that can be discussed by the manufacturers, because it is a paper primarily presenting the operators' viewpoint."
"It has been called to may attention that the date of my Birmingham paper was given as February 16, 1925 in my discussion as printed in the September issue of the Journal, instead of February 16, 1924. I regret to state that the mistake was made in my office, as this date is of considerable importance as a matter of record."
"At Turners Falls, Mass., on a tract of high, sandy land considered “worked out” and abandoned for farming long ago, the local electric service company has for several years past been conducting a model electrically irrigated farm. Now approximately 20 acres are under cultivation and produce an income of from $400 to $500 an acre. Water for this irrigation is pumped from the Connecticut River, 175 feet below the level of the farm, by electrically run irrigation pumps. Not only is this farm producing garden “truck” but also high grade leaf tobacco and small fruits."
"In the past the photoelectric cell has been adapted to photometry with varying degrees of success, but in almost every instance the apparatus required in such an adaptation has been too sensitive in its operation to make it readily usable in the commercial laboratory where speed and ease of operation are as important as accuracy, but this new method of photoelectric photometry bids fair to become widely used in the photometric laboratory. In the adaptation of the photoelectric cell to the commercial laboratory there are several difficulties to be overcome. The first of these concerns the fact that no form of photoelectric cell yet produced has the same color-sensitivity curve as the eye. Therefore, of two lights of different color which the eye might evaluate as being of equal intensity, the cell would show the whiter light to be of the higher intensity. This difficulty is almost entirely eliminated through a comparison between two lamps of the same color."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, October 14, 1925."
"The meeting of the New York Electrical Society for November will be of unusual interest. It will be the first public demonstration of the new Orthophonic Talking Machines and Electrically Cut Records by the Victor Talking Machine Company. This latest development in the reproduction of sound is almost startling in the progress it represents. At the private demonstrations recently described in the daily press some of the greatest artists in the musical world have been unstinted in their praise of it."
"The Fourth national Radio conference will meet at Washington, D. C., at 10:00 o'clock on the morning of November 9th, 1925, for the purpose of discussing and making recommendations concerning matters of general radio interest, and it is particularly the desire of Secretary Hoover that the listening public be represented at this meeting in order that difficulties which listeners now encounter may be made known with an expression of ideas toward the promulgation of betterment of such conditions. The scope and representation of the Conference will include broadcasting stations, radio magazines and newspaper radio departments, manufacturers of complete radio receiving sets, organizations of broadcast listeners, amateur organizations, commercial land radio stations, radio trade associations, United States Government Departments, with special representation accorded the Institute of Radio Engineers, and American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Steamship Owners Association, the United States Shipping Board, Farm organizations and the National Electric Light Association."
"The preliminary program of the Forty-sixth Annual Meeting of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers November 30th through December 4th holds high promise of profit and pleasure to those in attendance. About forty-five technical papers will be presented, and one special feature of the meeting will be the conferring of Honorary Membership in the Society on Honorable Herbert Hoover and Past President Worcester R. Warner. This event will occur on the evening of Tuesday, December 1st, just preceding the Presidential address of Doctor William F. Durand. An innovation at the meeting will be the delivery of the first Henry R. Towne and Robert Henry Thurston Lectures. The Towne lecture will deal with the relation of Engineering to Economics while the Thurston lecture will be on the subject of Engineering and Science. At the Annual Dinner, Wednesday evening, December 2d, the speaker will be one of the leading statesmen of the country. Thursday evening will be given over to a National Defense Session, when industrial leaders will report the progress being made toward perfecting the national program for industrial preparedness."
"Although civil aviation study shows progress, President Coolidge's Aerial Survey Board gives further testimony to the importance and timeliness of the study of aviation now being conducted jointly by a Committee of the American Enginering Council and the Department of Commerce. Of the nine men who met with the President on Thursday, October 18th, two engineers were outstanding in prominence — Doctor William F. Durand of Stanford University, president of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, member of the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics and American Engineering Council's Committee on Civil Aviation; and Howard E. Coffin, of Detroit, consulting engineer and expert in Aeronautics. These men were asked, with others, to the White House for the purpose of making detailed study of the best ways and means of developing and applying aircraft. Doctor Durand, at the first meeting, was chosen Secretary of the Board and Dwight W. Morrow the chairman, with Arthur O. Dennison acting as vice-chairman."
"Doctor J. B. Whitehead, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Dean of the Faculty of Engineering at Johns Hopkins University, has been awarded the triennial prize of the Fondation George Montefiore of Liege, Belgium, for the year 1925, for the best original work contributing to scientific advancement in the technical application of electricity. The prize is awarded for his series of papers entitled, Gaseous Ionization in Built-up Insulation. The amount of the prize this year is 4000 francs. This is the second time it has been awarded to Doctor Whitehead, the first award having been made in 1922."
"The following letter is addressed by the American mathematical society to leading members of the electrical engineering profession."
"SECTION 30 — WIRES AND CABLES NOW AVAILABLE Since the publication on page 1161 of the October Journal of the list of sections of the revised A. i. e. e. standards “Available” and “In preparation,” Section 30 on “Wires and Cables” has become available. Price, 40 cents. Members of the A. I. E. E. are entitled to 50 per cent discount."
"The first meeting of the New York Section for the administrative year 1925–26 was held on Friday evening, October 23, 1925, at the Engineering Societies Building with an attendance of about 200. Two papers were presented as follows: Three-Phase 60,000-Kv-a. Turbo Alternators for Gennevilliers by C. Roth, Chief Electrical Engineer, Socie´e´-Alsacianne de Constructions Mecaniques, Belfort, France and Hydrogen as a Cooling Medium for Electrical Machinery by E. Knowlton, C. W. Rice and C. H. Freiburghouse all of the General Electric Co. In the absence of Chairman Kidder, L. F. Morehouse, Vice President of the New York District presided. Following the presentation of each of the papers a very full discussion took place, participated in by engineers of prominence in both the design and operating fields. Among these were Messrs. C. J. Fechheimer, C. M. Laffoon, W. F. Dawson, L. B. Bonnett, Philip Torchio, Dr. Punga."
"The 1925 Edition of the National electrical code has now been released by the National Board of Fire Underwriters. The actual date when it supersedes the 1923 Edition in the review of electric wiring can be determined by inquiry of the authority by whom inspections are made in each respective locality."
"The “Power Show” which is now being held at Grand Central Palace under the auspices of the Fourth National Exposition of Power and Mechanical Engineering is presenting an unusually large quota of new devices and apparatus in the power plant field. One of the special features of the Exposition is a series of lectures on the important and outstanding developments in power and mechanical equipment during the past year, with motion pictures illustrative of engineering achievement."
"A delegation of seventeen French executives and engineers arrived in New York, September 30th under the direction of the Compagnie Francaise Thomson-Houston. A six weeks investigation of American power-plant practise and illuminating engineering is planned. On Saturday, October 3, the delegates visited the Engineering Societies Building, New York, where they were taken to N. E. L. A. headquarters and thence to visit the rooms of the A. I. E. E. Past-President C. O. Mailloux delivered an interesting address to them in French regarding the organization and work of the Institute and its relation to the electrical industries of the country."
"The fifth Annual Meeting of the Highway Research Board will be held in Washington, D. C, December 3–4, 1925. The program as announced by Charles M. Upham, Director of the Board, features the reports of the Research Committees as well as the final and progress reports to be received from the special investigations now being conducted under the auspices of the Board, covering latest developments in every phase of highway finance, design, construction and maintenance. The meeting will be open to all interested."
"Out of the joint meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers and the British Institution of Chemical Engineers regular international gatherings of engineers are likely to result. At the Annual dinner recently held in England, it was suggested by Sir Frederick L. Nathan, through Sir Arthur Duckham, who presided that a biennial joint meeting of the two engineering bodies be held alternately in England and America. This should do much to incite helpful cooperation between international engineering factions."
"Several papers of interest to electrical engineers were presented at the Chattanooga meeting of the American Electrochemical Society, September 24–26. The feature of the meeting was a symposium in charge of Dr. H. C. Parmelee on the “Relation of Electrochemical Industry to the Production of Plant Fertilizers” and this was followed by an inspection trip to Muscle Shoals and the two nitrate plants, which are not in operation."
"It is proposed, subject to there being a sufficient demand, to publish an English edition (in two volumes of approximately 1100 pages each) of the papers read at the International Conference on High Tension Lines held in Paris June 16–25, 1925. The volumes will also contain the discussion which took place."
"Harrison Pierce Reed, general manager of the A. Kieckhefer Elevator Company, Milwaukee, Wis., and Fellow of the Institute, died September 27th, 1925. Mr. Reed was born in Milwaukee September 9, 1886, and his early education was through the primary and West Division High Schools of that city. In 1905 he entered Sibley College, Cornell University, and was graduated from the Mechanical Engineering course with a certificate in Electrical Engineering in 1909. He immediately affiliated himself with the Cutler-Hammer Mfg. Co. and continued with them until 1919, taking responsible charge of their respective departments for the Development of Multiple-Unit Battery Car Train-Control, all engineering and Home Office Sales, and the development of new switchgears. He also contributed several valuable patents to this company's workings. In 1921 Mr. Reed left the Cutler-Hammer Mfg. Company to assume the general managership of the A. Kieckhefer Elevator Co., also of Milwaukee, in which capacity he was still active when his death occurred. Mr. Reed was for several years a member of the Institute's Industrial and Domestic Power Committee, serving as chairman of their Subcommittee on Elevators."
"John Early Jackson has removed from Schenectady to assume new duties with the Lynchburg Traction and Light Company, Lynchburg, Virginia."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"SECTIONS MEETINGS Cincinnati Electrical Methods for the Measurement of Temperature, by L. E. Emerick, Leeds and Northrup Co. September 10. Attendance 36."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"That the Midwinter Convention was a success in every way is now a matter of Institute history and it may not be unwise to analyze the apparent reasons."
"Carrier telegraph systems using frequencies above the voice range have been in use for a number of years on open-wire lines. These systems, however, are not suitable for long loll cable operation because cable circuits greatly attenuate currents of high frequencies. The system described in this paper uses frequencies in the voice range and is specially adapted for operation on long four-wire cable circuits, ten or more telegraph circuits being obtainable from one four-wire circuit. The same carrier ferquencies are used in both directions and are spaced 170 cycles apart. The carrier currents are supplied at each terminal station by means of a single multi-frequency generator."
"Installation of radio receiving sets is at present illegal throughout most of continental Europe, yet the freedom with which governmental regulations are being ignored forecasts acceptance of broadcasting on a systematic plan."
"Experiments were made to determine certain effects of high local voltage stresses in transformer oil. The resistivity of the oil was measured by a special method immediately following a period of voltage stress. The results were 1. A greatly reduced resistivity when the stressing voltage was greater than that producing visible corona. 2. A gradual increase in resistivity following removal of stress. The “rapidly applied” breakdown voltage was found for samples of oil which had been previously subjected to high voltage stresses. The dielectric strength varied in a manner similar to the resistivity, but showed an actual improvement in dielectric strength when the oil was given a rest period of 15 minutes. Definite conclusions are given at the end of the paper."
"The first public central office telephone installation using the “director” type of automatic switching equipment was successfully completed November fifteenth, at Havana, Cuba. The equipment was manufactured by the Automatic Electric Company of Chicago, and installed by them in co-operation with the engineers of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, New York."
"This paper is to discuss two forms of polarized telegraph relays which have been developed by the Bell System and applied originally to the metallic telegraph system. One of these relays was designed primarily for operation under severe and exacting circuit conditions and the other for application generally. Both relays are of the same general construction except that the former is more sensitive than the latter and is furnished with an auxiliary accelerating winding. Furthermore, this relay has incorporated in it certain refinements in construction and materials, which cause it to be extremely sensitive and to give reliable service for a comparatively long period without attention. The construction is of special interest in that the polarizing force of the permanent magnet is neutralized by the mechanical restraining force of the armature. A magnetic material having characteristics well suited to relay design and a new contact material are employed, which greatly improve the operating characteristics of the relay."
"The Signaling Committee of the National Fire Protection Association is now engaged in a general revision of the “Regulations for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of Municipal Fire Alarm Systems,” and the resulting revised Regulations are to be submitted to the N. F. P. A. annual convention in May, 1925, for approval. This committee held a meeting late in January, and have called a public hearing on the changes proposed, to be held March 17, at the rooms of the New England Insurance Exchange, 18 Oliver Street, Boston. All interested are invited to present their views. Copies of the present and proposed rules may be obtained from the National Fire Protection Association, 40 Central Street, Boston."
"The steady state load limits of a power network may be examined by familiar methods of analysis. However, the instability of a system with one or more elements working close to these limits sets lower values of power at which the system can be expected to give satisfactory operation under the sudden changes in load or connections which it must successfully sustain in operation. This paper presents methods for the analysis of power systems under transient conditions. A qualitative discussion of the problem is given, followed by an outline of a point-by-point scheme of analysis which takes into account the inertia of machines, field transients, etc. The value of this scheme depends upon having available rapid methods of analysis applicable to conditions prevailing at a given instant during the transient. Therefore, there is also included a description of the methods which have been found advantageous, notable among which is a superposition method of solving systems by means of charts. This is a powerful means of attacking complicated systems. The method of point-to-point analysis is applied to specific types of networks as examples. There is also given an extension of approximate methods of analysis presented previously. The paper is confined to the exposition of the methods of analysis which we have found convenient and powerful."
"From a survey recently made in 32 cities, it is brought out that the cost of electricity has decreased very considerably in comparison to other living commodities. Since December, 1913, the cost of electricity has decreased 8.6 per cent while the cost of clothing has increased 74.2 per cent. Other necessities have increased rather than decreased; for instance, house furnishings have increased 116 per cent, housing 68 per cent, foodstuffs 42.4 per cent and miscellaneous necessities 69.1 per cent."
"This paper is presented in two principal divisions, Part I and Part II. The first deals with the general problem of small errors due to temperature changes in watthour meters and describes methods of segregating the various components of these errors. It is shown that they may be divided into two principal groups, termed Class 1 and Class 2. Class 1 errors are operative at all power factors and are of the greater importance; Class 2 errors are important only at low power factors, and methods of eliminating these are pointed out. Both of these classes are further subdivided into their component parts. In Part II of the paper is described a method of compensating for Class 1 errors by means of magnetic shunts made of thermalloy. The term “Thermalloy” is applied to a series of copper-nickel-iron alloys having a large negative temperature coefficient of permeability and other unusual properties. These alloys are discussed in some detail, their manner of preparation and application being considered original. In the appendix, a novel magnetic thermometer utilizing thermalloy is described."
"During the year 1919, the Chairman of the Marine Committee of the Institute appointed a sub-committee with a view to compiling and recording data relative to the development and growth of electricity on shipboard. The instructions to the subcommittee included the preparation of a report, or historical review, which was to form the basis for a continuing record of such matters in the files of the Institute. After a careful investigation of the situation, the historical subcommittee found itself confronted with a task of no small proportions and one which would require, with the limited time available for such research work, probably several years to complete. An outline was prepared, however, of the ground which it was intended to cover and a preliminary report, submitted with the Marine Committee's report at the annual convention at White Sulphur Springs in 1920 and appears in the Institute's Transactions for that year. Continuing with the work for several years, the Historical Committee in April, 1923, submitted its report to the Marine Committee of the work and investigations which had been then made to date. This report of April 27, 1923 with its “Foreward” is given complete as rendered with such minor changes and corrections as shown by further investigations to be necessary. To this original report a brief section on “Electric Ship Propulsion” has been recently added. To complete this report to date, the sections on “Electrical Auxiliaries” and the appended list of references, are still to be added, although considerable work has already been done in connection therewith. Although it is regretted that the report is not complete in all details, the Marine Committee has felt that owing to the rapidly increasing interest in shipboard electrical installations that the time is opportune for the presentation of this information as at present compiled and with a view to completing the report at as early a date as practical. While we appreciate that this paper owing to its volume, will be read in the abstract only by those casually interested, to those who are interested in the subject, we trust the information will prove of considerable value. As information of this character has its greatest value as a historical record, we trust the Institute may be able to take steps to preserve the same in a substantial and conveniently accessible form in its files."
"R. H. Earle: In the development of the hydraulic division of automatic control systems for hydro electric units, it has been the experience of the writer that the major problem is to obtain the desired action of the turbine gates during the periods of starting and stopping the machine. In response to electrical signals the turbine gates must be opened or closed and the gate opening must be controlled in such a manner as to prevent violent speed changes and to prevent unnecessary shocks to the machine itself, the water conduits, and the power system. As stated by Mr. Wensley this action is secured by modifying the usual governor system, by using motor-operated gates, or by using a special electrically controlled service motor to move the gates."
"N. L. Pollard: There are only a few points which I wish to emphasize. One is the question of thermal capacity which has been causing the committee considerable worry during the last two years."
"F. C. Hanker: There is some question as to the application of the machine described that I want to discuss, particularly on the basis of considerations that Mr. Shirley has outlined. He has given in his paper three considerations. If you will analyze them, you will find the first is applicable to either the synchronous unit or the type described. In the second, in the amount of inductive kv-a. returned to the system appears to be questionable whether the type described is as effective as the straight synchronous, because the induction machine must of necessity receive its magnetization from either the 25-cycle or the 60-cycle system, depending on the voltage condition. That means that you have to compensate for that excitation or magnetization from the line either through other apparatus connected to, say, the 25-cyele system, or an additional machine that would be supplied with the set. If you take existing conditions, it would net be very serious or very harmful to supply the magnetization from the 25-eycle systems but in other cases where the power factor of the 25-cycle load is much lower, then it is a handicap to the machine."
"A. H. Maude: Transformer oil, in common with most liquids dissolves the gases of the atmosphere to some slight extent. Though the quantity of oxygen which can be held in solution by transformer oil is very slight when expressed in weight units and insufficient to produce any appreciable quantity of oxidation products, it would nevertheless, be sufficient to destroy the effectiveness of the inert atmosphere of the Inertaire transformer should any large part of it diffuse from the oil into this atmosphere. It is well known that any gas thus held in solution will readily diffuse out into an atmosphere of some other gas until a certain equilibrium depending on the partial pressures and solubilities of the gases present is reached."
"H. C. Specht (by letter): The calculation method shown by Mr. West will, without doubt, interest all motor designers. The way of demonstrating the different fluxes gives a very clear picture which can be easily understood. On the other hand, such a method of calculation without the use of diagrams and saturation curves seems to me rather complicated for routine design work, in spite of the fact that the effect of short-circuit current under the brushes and iron losses have been neglected. It is also assumed that all m. m. f. and fluxes are sinusoidal, which does not often correspond to the type of winding usually employed in a commercial motor. Another assumption is that of constant reluctance, whereas this will vary inversely with the saturation, which will have a very marked effect on the characteristics of the motor at overloads and when starting."
"A. M. Wilson: Of course the application of preferred numbers offers a very reasonable solution for a number of problems that are arising more and more with different sizes of equipment and materials; but the use of the distortionless circuit should be of service in connection with problems in inductive interference."
"J. R. Craighead: This device serves the purpose of repeating a transient so that it can be properly studied by the eye or where there is any question of suitable illumination can be better photographed because of repetition. This should lend itself to the use of higher velocities and consequently larger and more easily readible records on the oscillograph than have been obtained. The possible limit of speed on the oscillograph in the direction of the motion of the film is chiefly the photographic effeet. This device should enable the photographic effect to be much improved, provided the nature of the switch is such that duplication can be assured in the transient at excessively high speeds. Can Mr. Palmer furnish any statement regarding the practicable limits?"
"W. J. Foster: For a great many years I have been a party to the effort to obtain correction factors for rotating machinery from data collected at high altitudes and at sea level, thus deriving empirical formula, but I must confess that it seems a hopeless task."
"E. R. Thomas: I would like to discuss a few things on the flicker problem which came up in Mr. Kehoe's paper. In Fig. 6 of his paper, there is a plot of some data that were collected on the flicker of incandescent lamps. This subject of lamp flicker dates back to the old problem of 25 versus 60 cycles, or what minimum frequency can be used for lighting. In the study of that subject we are indebted primarily, I believe, to Messrs. Kennelly and Whiting for their thorough research on critical frequency, which was made with a specially arranged Bunsen photometer.4"
"H. M. Trueblood: The question of the degree of precision worth while in estimating short-circuit currents in power networks presents itself as of immediate importance as soon as consideration of the problem of the induetive effects of these currents in exposed communication circuits is undertaken; for it is necessary only to glance over a single-line diagram of a large modern power system to realize that an exact calculation of the distribution of residual current due to an arbitrarily located fault to ground will be a lengthy, difficult and expensive proceeding."
"E. P. Peck: In connection with Mr. Sindeband's paper, the plan, as a whole, is unquestionably right. The details will vary as time goes on. The main thing in a plan of that kind is to be sure that your standards are workable and that there are no unworkable theoretical ideas that some one happens to have put into them. I foresee that he is going to have a good deal of trouble with specialty salesmen. As soon as you standardize and decide to use one man's equipment, every manufacturer of specialties in the country will concentrate on you to have you change over and use his specialty."
"D. M. Simons: The paper by Messrs. Douglas and Kane is of great interest and I think their method can be applied to cable work advantageously."
"L. A. S. Wood: Mr. Millar has preached the gospel of moderation, and, while I subscribe to that doctrine, it is rather difficult to determine just where moderation ends and intemperance begins."
"L. W. W. Morrow: I would just like to ask the question if we are faced with the proposition of always suffering from static interference and is there no remedy?"
"D. M. Simons: I would like to emphasize Mr. Dwight's statement that while his solution is in terms of capacity, insofar as the geometric relationships are concerned, his work is immediately applicable to the calculation of thermal resistance, electrical resistance, dielectric loss, etc. His paper is especially valuable inasmuch as it makes it possible to make a rigid calculation of thermal resistance between conductors and sheath, which calculation is believed to be the most usual calculation where the geometric relationship between the three conductors as one electrode and the sheath as the other electrode are involved."
"The proposed Insulator Test Specifications Standards which are published herewith are the result of some three years' work on the part of a Subcommittee of the Standards Committee of the Institute."
"These specifications are not to be interpreted as forming complete insulator specifications but rather as defining the methods of making the various tests described when they are required."
"All of us are familiar with the panoramic view most store windows present on a bright, cloudless day. A steady stream of passing vehicles, street cars and pedestrians, seen against a background of distorted buildings, usually meets the gaze of the interested passerby and the value of the window display itself is lost merely because it cannot be clearly seen without conscious effort on the part of the observer."
"When one finds himself sitting in a draft in somebody's office or in a friend's home, he does not hesitate to protect himself from this exposure. He may change his seat or may even ask that the draft be reduced or eliminated. This is a privilege which is recognized by both host and visitor and no offense is involved. Why should not the same principle be applied to lighting? How often one finds himself facing a glaring light source. Does he feel as free to mention this annoyance? Even those who recognize the harmful influence of glaring light seldom find it easy to suggest that it be shaded or extinguished. It is felt that the host might be offended, and, doubtless, there is ground for the fear. The effect of exposure to a draft is so easy to trace to its cause that every one recognizes the danger and hosts would not suffer guests to be unnecessarily exposed."
"The coming convention in St. Louis, April 13–17, promises to set a record for Spring meetings. Technical sessions of unusual quality, delightful social features, including a specially attractive program for the ladies, and an excellent hotel and location will all contribute to the success of this convention. A very competent and enthusiastic committee, drawn from practically all the electrical interests in St. Louis, has made complete arrangements for the enjoyment of all who attend."
"The regional meeting announced for May 22–23 in Cleveland has been postponed. As the Spring Convention will be held in St. Louis, April 13–17, and this will be followed shortly by the Annual Convention, June 23–27, it was thought inadvisable to hold the Cleveland meeting at the time originally chosen."
"A one-day meeting, especially for enrolled Students of the Institute, will be held in Philadelphia, Monday, March 9th, under the guidance of the Philadelphia Section. This meeting will be patterned after a regular Institute Convention with a technical session, inspection trips and an evening meeting. Electrical engineering students will attend from at least nine colleges located in or near Philadelphia."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Midwinter Convention of the Institute, which was held in New York, February 9–12, was an outstanding success both in regard to the character of the papers presented and the large attendance. Nearly fifteen hundred members and guests registered for the Convention, which places it among the largest gatherings the Institute has ever held."
"One of the most pleasant and impressive features of the Midwinter Convention was the presentation of the Edison Medal to John White Howell on Wednesday evening, February 11th."
"Geographical District No. 1 is planning to hold its second regional meeting on May 7, 8 and 9 at Swampscott, Mass. A three-day meeting is planned for Thursday, Friday and Saturday, and there will be an excellent program. Two of the major technical subjects covered will be cables and live changing of transformer ratios. There will also be papers on generator testing, needle gaps, education and other topics."
"A St. Patrick's Day celebration known as the Engineering Open House will be held on March 17 by the engineering departments of the University of Oklahoma. Everyone in the University and in the State is invited to the affair. All electrical displays will be in charge of the A. I. E. E. Branch while other demonstrations will be in charge of the other engineering departments. The new $100,000 Engineering Building will be the scene of the celebration."
"A meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, February 10, 1925, during the Midwinter Convention."
"The Niagara Frontier Section is a new Section organized on February 2 by members located in and near Buffalo and Niagara Falls. The election of officers were as follows: Chairman — J. Allen Johnson, Electrical Engineer, Niagara Falls Power Company; Vice-Chairman — H. B. Alverson, Electrieal Engineer, Buffalo General Electric Company; Secretary and Treasurer — A. W. Underbill, Jr., Electrical Engineer, Niagara, Lockport and Ontario Power Company; Chairman Membership Committee — C. C. McCarthy, Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co.; Chairman Program Committee — G. H. Jump, General Electric Company, and Chairman Constitution Committee — L. C. Nicholson, Chief Engineer, Niagara, Lockport and Ontario Power Company."
"A new Section of the Institute, to be known as the Nebraska Section, was formed on February 3 at a meeting held in Omaha. Officers were elected as follows: Chairman, P. M. McCullough, Division Plant Engineer of the Northwestern Bell Telephone Company; Vice-Chairman, O. J. Ferguson, Dean of the Engineering College, University of Nebraska, and, Secretary-Treasurer, C. W. Minard, Assistant Engineer of the Nebraska Power Company. At this meeting a motion was unanimously carried that P. H. Patton and C. A. Robinson be extended a vote of thanks for their work in connection with organizing the Section."
"In the progress of the work of the revision of the A. I. E. E. Standards, four more sections of the Standards have been brought by the working committees to a point where the comments of the general Institute membership are desired prior to their presentation for adoption as Institute Standards. These sections are as follows:"
"The above paper has been communicated to the Institute and is printed in separate pamphlet form."
"The governing bodies of Columbia University have placed at the disposal of the American Institute of Electrieal Engineers each year a scholarship in Electrical Engineering in the Schools of Mines, Engineering and Chemistry of Columbia University. The scholarship pays $350 toward the annual tuition fees which vary from $340 to $360, according to the details of the course selected. Reappointment of the student to the scholarship for the completion of his course is conditioned upon the maintenance of a good standing in his work."
"The American Society for Testing Materials has been designated by the A. E. S. C. to sponsor a sectional committee on specifications for hard drawn copper wire and medium hard drawn copper wire and specifications have been submitted and approved, subject to revision through the regular sectional committee before acceptance as American Standards. The Society's specifications for tinned, soft or annealed copper wire and rubber insulation have been submitted to the sectional committee on insulated wires and cables."
"Since 1890, when dry cells first appeared in this country, the industry has grown very rapidly, especially within the last few years, when the annual production amounted to several hundred million cells."
"An interesting instance of the organized use of experts in the wood using industries to reduce the serious waste of our forest products, referred to by President Coolidge in his address to the National Conference on the Utilization of Forest Products, is the organization of a large committee of technical experts to develop national specifications for wood poles. The U. S. Forest Service considers that standardization of forest products is basically important as a means to economy in timber utilization."
"A special investigating committee of the American Engineering Council have proven the worth to labor of the National Board for Jurisdictional Award in the Building Industry after its five years' trial activity. The Council will continue its affiliation with the Board through the reappointment of Rudolph P. Miller, former superintendent of buildings in Manhattan, as its representative."
"The Founder Engineering Societies, the American Physical Society, the Americal Chemical Society and several universities and engineering colleges joined in celebrating on December 4, 1924 the centenary of the publication by Nicolas Leonard Sadi Carnot of his great principle of thermodynamics. The ceremonies were in Engineering Societies Building, New York, under auspices of Engineering Foundation. The interesting addresses by Dr. W. P. Durand, President of American Society of Mechanical Engineers, who presided, and by Prof. M. I. Pupin, of Columbia University, and Dr. W. L. R. Emmet, Consulting Engineer of General Electric Company, have just been printed in a booklet along with a copy of a portrait of Carnot made in 1817. The pamphlet may be obtained by request to Engineering Foundation, at 29 West 39th Street."
"During the year 1924, care of trust funds has received a major share of attention. Through the advice of the Finance Committee the Board has adopted the policy for restricting all future investments for trusts to securities legal in New York for guardians, executors, trustees and savings banks."
"E. D. Arntzen has left his position with the West Penn Power Company and is now connected with the Commonwealth Edison Company, 2452 N. Kedzie Boulevard, Chicago."
"Oliver heaviside, of Torquay, England, Honorary Member of the Institute, recently died, at the age of seventy-seven, as the result of a fall from a ladder. Mr. Heaviside has been recognized as one of the most eminent exponents of electrical science, particularly for his development of the electromagnetic theory. His retiring character and desire to avoid society, partly due to almost complete deafness since childhood, has resulted in his name being unknown to the general public but those who have come in contact with his work regard him as an illustrious successor to Wheatstone, Maxwell, and Kelvin. He lived alone in a cottage at Lower Warberry, Torquay, England, in poverty, a pension of £200. a year having practically been forced upon him. While, he wrote papers of great value for the Philosophical Magazine of the Royal Society of London and for the London Electrician, for which he received but scant remuneration, these papers were difficult to read and little known. No pictures of him exist and few of his admirers ever met him. His writings however, had considerable practical value, particularly his mathematical theory of the value of distributed self-induction in long distance telephony, a theory of which Dr. Pupin availed himself in this country for practical application to telephony, and establishing a new epoch in this field. The Royal Society elected him to Fellowship, and the Institute on February 14, 1918, to Honorary Membership. The resolution adopted by the Board of Directors at the time of his election to Honorary Membership follows:"
"Charles Hamilton Parker, Superintendent of the Generating Department of The Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston, died at his home in Brookline, Mass., on January 28, 1925. His death comes as a great shock to his many friends and associates of the electric power industry of this country."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Unless otherwise specified, books in this list have been presented by the publishers. The Society does not assume responsibility for any statements made; these are taken from the preface or the text of the book."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $8 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"For several years the officers of the four Founder Societies have been endeavoring to bring to the attention of the public the usefulness of the combined training and experience of the engineering profession."
"The design features and performance characteristics of salient-pole synchronous motors are well known and have been thoroughly covered in the technical press. The synchronous motor has been handicapped in the past because it is inherently a single-speed machine, and a change in speed could be obtained only by a change in the frequency of the power supply. Changing the frequency, however, is not practical in most applications. The special pole described in this paper which allows two-speed operation of a synchronous motor to be obtained at high efficiency is a new feature2. The same principle applied to a generator enables two frequencies to be obtained at the same speed or the same frequency at two different speeds. All that is necessary to change the speed (or frequency) is a pole-changing switch for the stator winding and a reversing switch for the rotor winding. A 5000/2500-h. p., 600/300-rev. per min., two-speed synchronous motor was built without having first constructed a model of any kind. This motor proved to be entirely satisfactory and its characteristics obtained by test agreed very closely with the calculated characteristics. At either speed the two-speed synchronous motor functions exactly as the ordinary synchronous motor. There is nothing special or complicated about its construction, it does not require any more attention than the ordinary synchronous motor, and its expense of maintenance is just the same. The first cost of such a motor is only slightly more than that of the ordinary synchronous motor whose rating is equal to the low-speed rating of the two-speed motor. Therefore, the two-speed synchronous motor is a practical machine and it should open a new field for synchronous motor application."
"The Journal Franklin Institute for February contains an article by Carl Hering in which he shows how the single, straight conductor can be used as a fundamental, and how simple and well defined its properties are."
"This paper discusses the rule of thumb method of applying motors to mine locomotives. It shows why speed of locomotive should be considered in selecting motor horse power. It indicates a rational method of selecting motors for locomotives for general application."
"Scientific Paper of the Bureau of Standards, No. 497, gives data on the linear thermal expansion of 4 samples of aluminum and 51 samples of important aluminum alloys. The preparation, chemical composition, heat treatment, etc., are included. Most of the specimens were examined from room temperature to about 500 deg. cent. Typical expansion curves of the various groups of samples are shown and discussed."
"Since wound-rotor induction motors with clutch brakes have been very commonly used for this application, a review of the operating conditions and safety requirements is given, in order to show why synchronous motors without clutches may be used for the same application."
"The Bureau of Standards recently completed a study of the performance of rectifiers of the type used for charging storage batteries, and the results are now available in Technologic Paper, No. 265, copies of which may be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents at Washington, D. C."
"According to a recent announcement permanent illumination is to be provided for Niagara Falls from a battery of twenty-four powerful search lamps which will cast 1,320,000,000 candle power. May 24th is the date set for the completion of the installation and a celebration is being planned by the Niagara Falls Chamber of Commerce for this occasion when this powerful battery of search lamps will be turned on for the first time."
"FOLLOWING an extensive study into the cost of power as delivered to the customer, the Brooklyn Edison Company adopted the policy of supplying all the increase in business at 60-cycle alternating-current and curtailing the direct-current load within the capacity of the existing substations. With the 25-cycle generation confined primarily to the supply of power to the direct-current system all new prime movers are being installed with 60-cycle generators. The 25-cycle system is therefore left in a position of barely holding its own."
"The desirability of motors possessing the good characistics of induction motors and being capable of operating with leading power factor is pointed out. A new machine is described which operates as self-excited synchronous motor under normal operating conditions. During the starting period and excess overloads, it has the characteristics of an induction motor with wound secondary. The machine has excellent starting and synchronizing torque with a small current draw. The electrical and mechanical phenomena, during the starting and synchronizing periods, are discussed. The size of the machine is nearly equal to that of a slip-ring induction motor of equal rating, and the full-load efficiency is approximately equal to that of a corresponding induction motor. It is shown that the overall efficiency of a plant, consisting of squirrel-cage motors and this new type of motor, is usually higher than that of an equivalent plant using induction motors only, correcting the power factor by idle running correcting devices."
"THIS paper was prepared under instructions from the Committee on Instruments and Measurements, with a view to forming a basis for the Committee's work in connection with electrical measurements as applied outside of the strictly electrical field. The system of classification used is in accordance with the nature of the quantity under measurement, rather than with the principle involved; and the subject is treated under nine headings."
"THE design of busbar layouts calls for the determination of the stresses occurring in the bus supports during short circuits, because the stresses in question may become sufficiently large to weaken, or even rupture, the supports. Moreover, an understanding of the factors affecting the stresses will often permit the designer to modify the layout so as to reduce the stresses, and thus save material or prevent failure. Hence investigations have been directed towards the calculation of support stresses due to electromagnetic forces caused by short-circuit currents in busbar structures."
"This paper is presented to describe the cascade connection for transformers, and show the standard characteristics of such equipment, but it does not give building-plans for the 1,000,000-volt laboratory, as they have been presented in other publications."
"In connection with carrying out the toll-cable program of the Bell System, a metallic-circuit polar-duplex telegraph system was developed. The metallic-return type of circuit lends itself readily to the cable conditions, its freedom from interference allowing the use of low potentials and currents so that the telegraph may be superposed on telephone circuits. The new system represents an unusual refinement in d-c. telegraph circuits, the operating current being of the same order of magnitude as that of the telephone circuits on which the telegraph is superposed. The metallic system is suitable for providing circuits up to 1000 miles or more in length, the grade of service being better than that usually obtained from ground-return circuits on open-wire lines for such distances. About 55,000 miles of this type of telegraph circuit are in service at present."
"V. Karapetoff: An impression may be gathered from the paper that the power factor of the motor is improved because the squirrel-cage winding is highly inductive. It seems to me that the squirrel-cage winding necessarily has to be highly inductive so as not to interfere with the series characteristics of the motor at the start. If it were not for an additional mechanical complication (Fig. 2), it would be better to make this winding less inductive at and near synchronism. A transformer diagram at constant current will readily show that the common flux is lagging behind the primary current at a non-inductive load more than at an inductive load. Therefore, the less inductive the squirrel-cage winding, the more the flux φf is lagged behind I (Fig. 4). But the flux in T must be in time quadrature with φf in order that the total e.m.f. between the brushes be equal to zero. Therefore, lagging φf also causes φt and Et to lag more behind I; in other words, it causes the vector of the current to come nearer that of the total voltage E. Thus, the power factor is improved even though the squirrel-cage winding has a high inductance, and the power factor would be improved more, if it were advisable to reduce the inductance of this winding in normal operation."
"J. Slepian: The device described by Mr. Lewis has several distinct elementary parts performing rather distinct functions; there are the filament and grid, giving the usual detector action, there is a thermally responsive element and there is a contact which opens and closes."
"D. W. Roper: A point which should be more prominently set forth is that as the operating voltage of a cable increases, the quality must improve. What is needed at the present time is some method of measuring the quality of the insulation and determining the maximum operating voltage for which a given quality of cable is suited, and to which it should be limited. There are also needed some other tests to be applied to cable at the factory in order to determine whether it will be satisfactory for the service for which it is intended. Apparently some further research as well as co-operation between the manufacturing and operating companies is needed in order to develop the proper tests for this purpose."
"F. W. Peek, Jr.: In a paper that I presented at Swampscott last year I described some tests in which the variation of the steepness of the wave front and the voltage of a wave were measured as it traveled along a line on which there was considerable corona loss."
"F. W. Peek, Jr.: Prof. Harding has given us some curves up to 500,000 volts on conductors good for operation at 220 kv. or less. His loss measurements under some conditions show a close agreement with the quadratic law over a reasonable range of voltage for the conductors. The difference on several of the conductors is, I believe, due to the fact that sphere gaps were used for voltage measurement. Regarding the divergence at the upper part of the curve where the arc-over voltage is approached, we have sometimes noticed a somewhat similar tendency on measurements that we have made up to one million volts. This has occurred on large conductors at spacing relatively small compared to diameter. It seems to be due to the distortion in the dielectric field that takes place because of the great amount of corona. The ratio of spacing to effective radius becomes small. The flexible corona conductor is distorted and no longer a cylinder. At the voltage when the divergence starts the corona begins to separate into huge cart wheels. These have a shielding effect preventing or lowering the loss between wheels. This does not mean that the quadratic law would not apply for calculation of the loss for million-volt conductors. Larger conductors and greater spacing would be used and the law would hold in the usual way. The tendency to diverge thus seems to apply only to extreme conditions or when spark-over is approached and distortion results."
"P. H. Thomas: Mr. Mitchell's paper is particularly timely since it indicates not only the most advanced point to which widespread interconnection of large systems has progressed in actual practice, but points out the probable solution of some of the problems now being faced in the further extension of interchange."
"A. M. Rossman: The built-up rotor construction which Mr. Foster describes is interesting to us because of an experience which we have had within the last two or three months with a solid forged rotor."
"A. M. Rossman: I was shown recently some results of a heating test of a cable passing through a clamp. The cable was 300,000 cir. mil copper cable and the clamp was a drop forging. In that case the current was raised to such a value as to give an appreciable heating of the conductor. The clamp showed a temperature several degrees higher than the conductor. This is contrary to the results which Mr. Wood obtained."
"F. W. Peek, Jr.: If I understood Mr. Austin correctly, it is his belief that insulators on transmission lines may arc-over at very much reduced voltages due to some localized high-frequency phenomena starting at a corona brush."
"F. W. Peek, Jr.: In some respects Mr. Creighton's conclusions are not as far from my own as might appear at first glance. The effect on transmission lines is determined wholly by the gradient. The fact that he has very high energy values is due to the high voltages or high cloud heights that he has assumed."
"G. B. Rosenblatt: I have recently interested myself in the electrification of the lumber industry, and looking at it as an outsider who is coming in, I have seen some things, possibly, that those who have grown up with the industry don't recognize."
"G. B. Rosenblatt: The paper apparently deals mostly with the application of certain electrical equipment to coal mining and makes little reference to metal-mining practise with which I am much more familiar. If it will be remembered that the remarks I have to offer are based on my experience in the metal-mining field and may fit in with coal-mining practise only insofar as they may apply to it, I would like to offer the following comments:"
"G. E. Stoltz: One important contribution that electricity has made to the steel industry is due to the economy and ease with which energy can be transmitted throughout the plant and the economy with which this energy can be utilized in electric motors. Steam engines were employed to drive machinery in our steel plants before the advent of the electric motor. Steam was usually gererated in several boiler plants as one large boiler plant was not feasible due to the leakage in the long steam lines and the drop in steam pressure. The steel plants in fact had to be laid out with the idea of locating their mills in such a way that a group of them could be near some individual boiler plant. The reciprocating engine does not lend itself to high steam pressures and low vacuum which is possible with the use of steam turbines for generation of electric power. For this reason the generation of the steam was not as economical as is possible where steam turbines are used."
"Discussion at Worcester E. M. Hewlett: In trying various materials in experimenting on the first suspension-type insulator we found that any compound or any material that can carbonize, will carbonize. I am in hope that by distributing the strain in the way that Professor Smith has done, the carbonization will be reduced and the life of the rod lengthened, but it seems that in this electrical work, anything that can happen will happen. For instance, when an insulator is subjected to fog, you get a little dampness on the surface. Or when you get it out in the Middle West, in the Salt Lake section, where you get alkali dust, then you get a surface condition that will start a little static and start a little leakage. These conditions, with the available materials, are likely to result in deterioration."
"L. J. Moore: The matter of testing pumping plants for the agricultural consumer has proven a very beneficial service to the farmer, because it has enabled him to know whether or not his pumping plant is delivering its proper amount of water at the proper cost for energy, and it also has forced the pump manufacturer to furnish a product which really comes up to specifications."
"D. I. Cone: To the engineers and maintenance people of the operating telephone systems these advances in the means for maintaining the circuits are very gratifying. There are two major reasons for their need: First, in order to employ economically the communication plant, as many types of service as possible are put on the wires. Balancing the circuits is one means employed to separate one channel of communication from another. Second: The growth of power circuits and their inductive fields has been so great that communication circuits, which originally had the field very much to themselves, are now forced to exist in the presence of large inductive and conductive fields. Since the same people want both power and communication service it is impossible altogether to prevent that. The original telephone circuits would be wholly inoperative under present-day conditions but for the advances made, on the one hand, by the method of balancing the communication circuits, and on the other hand, by measures taken in the supply circuits to limit their fields of influence."
"W. S. Peterson: I was employed at the plant referred to in this paper, which has rotary converters for its source of direct current. My experience at that plant, was that the rotary converters justify themselves in every way. The losses saved were roughly 5 per cent or 6 per cent of the total power used. The total power was 35,000 kw., which was maintained for 24 hours per day. You can understand that the power saved more than makes up for the increased maintenance of the rotary converter. The final result is greater economy."
"C. J. Stahl: Mr. Whitney has spoken of the Joint Committee on street lighting appointed by the New York State Conference of Mayors in cooperation with the Empire State Gas and Electrical Association. Apparently, this committee has felt the desirability of establishing a practical nomenclature in which street-lighting values may be expressed in recognized terms. This idea is commendable and no doubt some progress has already been made. However, we may meet difficulty in using the term lumens per square foot as a measure of illumination if the total lumens output of the lighting unit is to be used instead of the actual lumens applied to the surface of the street. The latter criterion would give the credit due to equipment which utilizes the output of the lamp to better advantage. An upright diffusing ball globe for example, produces practically a uniform distribution in both horizontal and vertical planes with slightly more light above the horizontal than below. Other units employing reflectors or refractors increase the light in the lower hemisphere and distribute it symmetrically over the surrounding area. Still other designs control the light both in the vertical and horizontal planes resulting in still higher illumination on the surface of the street."
"The Minister of the Interior in his annual statement regarding the development, distribution, and use of hydroelectric energy in Canada reports an exceptionally substantial growth during 1924. More than 300,000 horse power of new installations were added during the year, involving some $45,000,000 in capital expenditure and bringing the total installation in the Dominion to 3,569,275 horse power. This does not, however, give a complete picture of the situation, as many large projects were carried well toward completion and will, when finished in 1925, bring a further addition of 600,000 horse power to the country's total."
"The possibilities of increasing production in industrial plants by the use of better designed lighting equipment and higher intensities of illumination have been proved experimentally and in practise. In general, such changes in the lighting of a factory have been made for the purpose of increasing production. There are many operations, however, where the accuracy with which piece of work can be done is of more importance then the speed, and the advantages of better lighting can be utilized in promoting accuracy rather than in saving time. Of course, this increased accuracy may result in increased production."
"“Ornamental lighting standards on every paved street” is the verdict of Schenectady, N. Y., which has made Erie Boulevard, one of its main thoroughfares, the best lighted street in the eastern part of the country. With the “Path of Gold” of San Francisco and the business section of Salt Lake City, it ranks among the three best lighted streets of the world."
"Interest continues to increase in the Spring Convention in St. Louis, April 13–17. The large and energetic local committee has perfected all details of the arrangements. A technical program of high order will be presented. The subjects of the papers will be of especial interest to those who are located in the central section of the country. Included in the topics will be power stations and systems, electrical machinery, communication and marine, mine and industrial applications. The list of papers will be the same as that given in the announcement in the March issue of the Journal, page 305, with the addition of one paper, namely, Electric Shovels by D. J. Shelton, Marion Steam Shovel Company, and D. S. Stoetzel, General Electric Company."
"The annual business meeting of the A. I. E. E., will be held on Friday, May 15, at 8:15 p. m. in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City. At this meeting the results of the annual election of Institute officers will be announced and the report of the Board of Directors for the year ending April 30 will be presented."
"A number of very pleasant and attractive features will be offered by the coming Annual Convention which will be held in Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 23–27. The social and sports activities will take a large share of the program as is customary at the Annual Convention. Also much valuable technical material will be presented and probably two evening meetings will be held on topics of wide and live interest. This convention will furthermore be the occasion for an all-day conference of Section delegates."
"This year the Pacific Coast Convention is going to be held in Seattle, commencing September 15 and continuing several days."
"A very comprehensive program is planned for the second Regional Meeting of the Northeastern District of the Institute which will be held at Swampscott, Mass., May 7, 8 and 9. This meeting follows up the successful meeting held by the District at Worcester, Mass., last year which was the pioneer meeting of its kind. At the coming meeting the Lynn Section will be host."
"A meeting of the Board of Directors will be held in St. Louis, Mo., during the Spring Convention. The meeting will be held at the Hotel Chase which is Convention headquarters at 4:30 P. M., Tuesday, April 14, 1925."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, March 13, 1925."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute held in New York, March 13, the report of the Committee of Tellers, giving the result of its canvass of the nomination ballots received for the offices to be filled at the coming annual election, was presented."
"On the evening of April 16, 1925 the New York Electrical Society will make a visit to the Edison Lamp Works of the G. E. Co. at Harrison, N. J. A buffet supper will be served at 6 p. m. Directly after supper a talk will be given by George H. Stickney, Illuminationg Engr. of the Works on “Lighting Education by the Visual Method.” An inspection of the lighting exhibit will follow. This exhibit includes every modern type of lighting equipment, covering home, office, store, show window, factory, street, auto, sign, flood lighting, etc."
"The third annual Hydroelectric Conference under the auspices of the Engineers Club of Philadelphia was held on March 10. Seven technical papers dealing with the general topic of “Practical Problems of Operation” were presented by eminent engineer in morning and afternoon sessions and a dinner held in the evening in the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel was followed by addresses by three prominent speakers."
"An innovation for the Institute, a Student Branch convention, was held on March 9 at the Moore School of Electrical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, under the direction of the Philadelphia Section. Students from nine colleges and others attended the meeting making a registration of about 300. The meeting lasted one day and consisted of technical papers by students in the morning, inspection trips in the afternoon and a dinner and an address by President Parley Osgood in the evening."
"The Commission of Washington Award endowment has just been increased by the amount of $2000. This increase in the fund is made by its founder John W. Alvord, Past President of the Western Society of Engineers in order that the annual expenses incurred in connection with the award may be properly provided for and that the presentation may not be hampered in any way."
"During the week of April 27th to May second, inclusive, The American Institute of the City of New York, now in the 97th year of its service to American Industry, is planning to hold an exhibition which will tell the “story of invention from the dawn of civilization to the ‘day after tomorrow.’” This will beheld at the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, and able inventors, research engineers, chemists, as well as those who have had much to do with the development of inventions, will unite in telling the chapters of this marvelous progress."
"Through oversight, the last section of “Insulator test specifications” was omitted as published in the March Journal, page 300. The omitted part follows:"
"Although the recent Storage Battery Division recommendations was approved by the voting members of the S. A. E., criticisms of the report were submitted by Mr. T. L. Lee and R. G. Thompson, both being of the opinion that the sizes adopted are too small and not in conformity with standards recently adopted by the Automotive Electric Association. It is recommended that further investigation be made, working toward the adoption of the same storage battery standards for both the S. A. E. and the A. E. A."
"According to announcement received from the Bureau of Standards, Department of Commerce, a new directory of commodity specifications is now in the Government Printing Office, and it is expected that it will be ready for distribution very shortly. It is to be followed by an Encyclopedia of Specifications, giving loose pamphlet copies of important specifications, especially those which are not readily obtainable elsewhere. 6000 commodities will be included, in a volume of approximately 600 pages, purchasable at a price of about $2.00."
"The Engineering Council of Utah, with headquarters at Salt Lake City, has completed arrangements whereby regularly organized luncheon gatherings will be held every Monday at the Salt Lake Chamber of Commerce, at 12:15 p. m. The Council extend a cordials invitation to all visiting engineers to attend these luncheons, and would greatly appreciate notice of such expected visits in advance if possible. Notification may be sent to any local engineer, to Mr. H. W. Clarke, President of the University of Utah, and Chairman of the Utah Section of the Institute, or to Mr. John Solberg, Secretary, in care of the Interurban Station."
"Changes to be incorporated in the new edition of the National Electric Safety Code, as approved at a meeting of the Sectional Committee dealing with the code, held at the Bureau of Standards March 5–6, 1925, will include rules for the construction of radio antennas, the prohibition of grounded returns on power circuits in cities and changes in the loading map. It is one of the provisions of the American Engineering Standard Committee, under whose jurisdiction this Code comes, that it shall be revised periodically every few years, in order that it shall embody the most modern practises."
"A system by which basic sizes, or “preferred numbers” of commodities may be established is being investigated and developed by a special committee recently appointed by the A. E. S. C. It will be the work of this Committee to study the possibilities of size-series, enlisting the interest of the engineers of industrial Europe, particularly in the mechanical and electrical engineering fields, toward an able completion of this undertaking."
"After forty-five years of intermittent effort, the work on this map is being rushed to completion and in less than a generation, the United States will have completed atlas of its entire territory. Honorable James Hartness declares that the passing of the Temple Bill by President Coolidge is of enormous social and industrial significance to the nation, since it greatly facilitates and accelerates the work of the U. S. Geological Survey and the precise triangulation and leveling of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, the organizations who are doing this work."
"Chester J. Haines has accepted a position in the engineering department of the Edison Company at Easton, Pa."
"Hervy P. Mitchell, while working on a switchboard in the O Street substation, Fresno, California, came in contact with a high voltage switch causing an arc that shocked and burned him causing death. Born in Pasadena, November 2, 1896, Mr. Mitchell's early education, after high school, was a year in Junior College followed by a year in the California Institute of Technology. He began work with the San Joaquin Power Company while a boy of fifteen, subsequently taking a course in electricity at Throop Polytechnic School. From Los Angeles, in 1918, he enlisted in the seventh provisional company, Ordinance Corps, as an electrician. Serving at Camp Hancock, Ca., on January 18, 1919, he was given honorable discharge and returned to the San Joaquin Valley and the San Joaquin Power, by whom he was considered one of the most promising young men in the organization. Mr. Mitchell joined the Institute, August 2, 1923."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St. New York, N. Y."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $8 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Washington, Franklin, and Jefferson were born engineers. Washington loved mathematics; he started his career as a state surveyor, and no man without a genius for solving difficult engineering problems would have succeeded as Washington did in organizing the Continental Army which he led so successfully from the beginning to the end of the American Revolution in spite of the many almost insurmountable difficulties. Franklin's devotion to science and constructive engineering work, particularly during the early period of his life, is well known. A student of Jefferson's life says that as a student at the College of William and Mary he had acquired “a familiarity with higher mathematics and natural sciences, only possessed, at his age, by men who have rare natural taste and ability for those studies.” When Jefferson retired from the political arena he devoted himself entirely to engineering work. The physical structure of the University of Virginia was the result. An incident will be mentioned now which indicates that during the formative period following the War of American Revolution, there was an engineering mind which steered the course of the American ship of state."
"Samuel Sheldon, the nineteenth president of the A. I. E. E., was born on March 8, 1862, at Middlebury, Vermont, where he was graduated from Middlebury College in the year 1883 with the degree of A. B., receiving the A. M. degree in 1886, and the honorary degree D. Sc. in 1911. At college he was the winner of the Waldo prize for four years, was salutatorian of his class at graduation and received the highest honors in physics."
"At this time the power limit of transmission lines is a live subject and presents such complications as to require very careful analysis. The paper points out the essential features to be considered in a study of the problem, and calls attention to some outstanding results of an experimental investigation of the subject with a view to clarifying some of the points that have been under discussion in the past two years. It is shown that the problem of stability is not necessarily confined to long-distance, high-voltage transmission, but may be present in any system where the impedance of the transmitting circuit is high compared with the load to be carried. While the impedance of the transmission line and transformers plays an important part in establishing the breakdown point of a system, the characteristics of synchronous apparatus with the method of voltage regulation used are of equal importance. It is shown that the synchronizing power of synchronous apparatus is largely dependent upon the field excitation at the time excess load is applied; that field excitation is determined by the circuit conditions under steady load, and, in order to provide for increase of excitation with increasing loads of considerable magnitude, some automatic means of controlling the field is essential. The rate at which mechanical load in large quantities can be added to a system is limited on account of the necessity of change in angular displacement between the generators and receiving bus; this changing angle requires relative speed change, which takes time. This fact, together with the inherent tendency of synchronous machines to “stiffen” under sudden applications of load, makes it possible to rely on the usual vibrating-type voltage regulator working on the field of the exciter to provide the necessary field change. It is brought out that the maximum load that a system can carry under steady conditions at normal voltage can be suddenly thrown on, and the voltage regulator, with the assistance of the factors mentioned, will provide the necessary excitation. Voltage regulators are practically a necessity where it is desired to approach, under operating conditions, the ultimate maximum power of the system. Transient load changes that occur on the usual system, such as throwing on or off load, cutting in or out transmission circuits, etc., can be easily taken care of, providing such changes do not exceed the steady state limits of the system. The effect of short circuits depends upon their nature, whether three-phase or single-phase, and upon the location and duration. This subject is discussed briefly and the conclusion drawn that successful operation can be obtained under usual short-circuit conditions if adequate relaying is provided. The possibility is discussed of increasing the limit of power transmission by improving the apparatus and the characteristics of the transmission circuits, and it is pointed out that no great development may be expected from any scheme yet proposed regarding a modification in line characteristics. With reference to the apparatus, it is possible to make some changes in the design of synchronous machines tending to “stiffen” them, such as higher saturation, larger air-gap, etc., but in general no radical improvement may be expected here that does not materially increase the cost and decrease the efficiency of the machine. Attention is turned therefore toward such schemes of regulation, or compensation, of the synchronous apparatus as would increase the maximum power. Among these is the use of reactors for locally controlling power factor and thus too the field excitation of the more important synchronous machines. However, the possible additional power thus obtained is limited, and, as it now appears, other methods which have greater promise will be resorted to. The use of a mercury-arc rectifier in the alternator field circuit seems to have great possibilities. By varying the field current in rigid proportion to the armature current, a very significant degree of compensation of the armature reaction is obtained — about 50 per cent, which is, of course, equivalent to almost doubling the inherent capacity of the generator. While this scheme is not yet in practical form, its efficacy has nevertheless been demonstrated in factory tests, and it is regarded by the authors as one of the most promising developments at this time."
"In this paper, the author summarizes the growth in the number of complaints of radio interference, and outlines typical causes in the various fields of utilization of electricity with the aim of indicating the relative part chargeable to power companies. The radio industry itself, moveable or extraneous sources, signal lines and equipment, power lines themselves, connected power company equipment, connected commercial loads, household circuits and appliances, are dismissed and location methods described, with mitigation measures which have been found effective. In its preparation, the writer has had at hand reports of member companies of the Pacific Coast Electrical Association (the Pacific Coast Section of the N. E. L. A.) as chairman of the Inductive Coordination Committee, and the results of tests conducted by the General Electric Company on various pieces of equipment. He has also had the benefit of committee discussion, both local and national, and correspondence and conferences with other men engaged in the common problem from coast to coast."
"For many years residence service was merely a matter of a few hundred watts lighting-load per house, with a poor load factor. The electric iron then came into use, followed by many other socket appliances, considerably increasing the consumption with only a moderate increase in the demand."
"The electricity commissioners, after five years of study, have at last worked out a tentative plan for the allocation of electric service franchise rights in Greater London. While the arrangement proposed is recognized as not being in accordance with the best commercial engineering practise, it is the result of a compromise on all sides and will secure at least more efficient operating conditions than exist today. Under the proposal, London and the Home Counties will be served by fewer individual undertakings than at present, there being an association of interests on the part of private companies rather than on the part of the existing municipal systems, and an attempt will be made to coordinate operation by a so-called joint electricity authority."
"If a high voltage is applied between two electrodes, experience shows that in any given case there is a limiting voltage below which no loss occurs, a permanent current flows only if the voltage is an alternating one and is then a purely charging current. Above this voltage loss appears, accompanied by the familiar phenomenon of corona; a permanent current flows even in the case of continuous potential, showing that the air space between the electrodes becomes a conducting part of the circuit."
"This Committee submits the following report on the progress made during the past year in the field of Power Transmission and Distribution. In accordance with the plan proposed, a number of subjects are offered at the end of the report suitable for topical discussion at the Annual Convention."
"The double-ended ferry-boat propelled by means of a bow and stern propeller has become the recognized standard type, due to its maneuvering possibilities and general handiness in congested harbors. In all cases in which the prime mover is directly coupled to the two propeller shafts which must necessarily turn at the same revolutions per minute, the over-all propulsive efficiency is lowered due to the performance of the bow propeller. The electric drive system permits of applying power when and where required and to any degree desired. Tests on the double-ended ferry-boat W. R. HEARST show a material gain in propulsive efficiency when driving the bow propeller electrically at a speed which gives neutral thrust. Later tests indicate, however, that there is no substantial difference in the propulsive efficiency, whether the bow propeller is driven electrically at neutral thrust, or is electrically disconnected and driven by the water. Sufficient tests have not been made, however, to show that this is true in all cases. The reciprocating steam-engine or Diesel-engine type of drive, in which both shafts are direct connected, require approximately 19 per cent more horse power at the propeller shafts than the electric system, due to the difference in propulsive efficiency. The calculated fuel consumption of a typical reciprocating steam-engine drive with the direct-connected system shows that it requires approximately 40 per cent more fuel than the steam turbine electric system, due to the difference in propulsive and thermal efficiencies. The electrical transmission losses are less than the propulsive efficiency losses of the direct systems. In addition to the more efficient method of power application, electric drive also has many inherent advantages, such as rapid maneuvering qualities and ease of control. The Ward Leonard system, similar to that used on the Chicago fire boats which were put in operation in 190%, permits of the use of pilot-house control, eliminating the personal factor which is always present with the engine-room telegraph. The operating records of ferry-boats in service prove electric drive to be reliable. The respective field of application of turbine electric drive or Diesel electric, drive for double-ended ferry boats depends upon the relationship of first cost to the operating changes and needs of the service."
"Activity in the field of electrical research, as noted in last year's report, has continued unabated during the past year. The range of problems has been much the same, and while no striking research of outstanding importance may be mentioned, noteworthy progress has been made in many directions."
"DURING the past three years the attention of the Standards Committee has been focused primarily on a general revision of the Institute Standards, both as to form and content. In form the revision is far reaching, involving the preparation in separate pamphlets of the standards relating to different types of apparatus or to different branches of the art."
"This paper discusses series street lighting circuits from the point of view of their relations to nearby telephone circuits. These lighting circuits often hare a much greater inductive influence in proportion to the amount of power transmitted than have most other types of power distribution or transmission circuits. This is due to the relatively large distortion in wave shape of voltage and current on certain types of these lighting circuits, and to the unbalanced voltages to ground which occur with series layouts. Three general types of lighting circuits are discussed. These are a-c. arc circuits, d-c. arc circuits supplied by mercury arc rectifiers, and alternating-current incandescent circuits. Of these, the incandescent type of circuit, in which the lamps are equipped with individual series transformers or auto-transformers, is the most important in this respect. Measures for reducing interference from these circuits are discussed. It is hoped that the information given in the paper will be useful to power and telephone engineers in their cooperative efforts to solve these difficulties."
"In the past few years the need of a device for recording voltage surges on transmission lines has been felt more and more. Realizing this need I. F. Peters, in the fall of nineteen twenty-three, developed the klydonograph which utilizes the Litchtenberg figure to record the characteristics of transient voltages. The principle of the instrument and practical connections to a line are discussed. The results obtained in the field from four investigations are given. Parts II and IV describe the first experimental model of the klydonograph which uses a stationary glass photographic plate in removable plateholders with a moving electrode, and the commercial type of klydonograph which uses a daylight-loading roll film, of sufficient length to last seven days. This latter model has three electrodes for connection to a three-phase line."
"Within the next month, the world's longest telephone cable, connecting New York and Chicago, will go into service. It is 861 miles long and for 717 miles of its length it is carried above ground on some 36,000 poles. For the remaining 144 miles this cable runs underground. Construction of the cable began seven years ago and when put into service it will provide 250 channels for telephonic communication and 500 for telegraph messages. This new cable is the first step in a system which will connect many important centers in the more densely populated parts of the United States."
"THE Seattle Municipal Light and Power Plant is operating a 26,000-volt distributing system in an attempt to approach the ideal of constant potential distribution in a rather novel way. The idea which is being developed is to carry the high-voltage lines as close as possible to the consumer's premises, making the primary feeders correspondingly short. By placing the heavier industrial loads on separate power lines and providing a special station with regulators to care for the congested business district, a system is secured that will serve the entire city from three main distributing points with very close regulation and without the use of feeder regulators. The higher voltage lines are naturally more efficient, as our records of distribution losses seem to indicate. The fundamental requirements of safety and reliability are at least as well satisfied by the new system as by the more orthodox one it displaces, and the high-voltage system is certainly more economical and resourceful."
"The famous ship upon which Admiral Peary went to the Artic in search of the North Pole has had a varied career. She was built in a Maine shipyard. Later she was brought to Puget Sound and was converted into a sea-going tug. After this the Roosevelt saw considerable service with the fishing fleets of the Pacific and now she is taking the place of the electric generating station, which was recently destroyed by lightning, on Vashon Island in Puget Sound, acting as a floating power house until a new one upon land can be built."
"The description and illustrations which follow refer to overhead wire crossing of the Mississippi River near Crystal City, Mo., of a double circuit, 132,000-volt, three-phase, 60-cycle transmission line now in the process of construction. The terminal points of this line at the present time are the Cahokia steam power station of the Union Electric Light & Power Company and the glass manufacturing plant of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company at Crystal City, Mo. The general location of this line is shown in the accompanying map, Fig. 1. Its length is 30.8 miles, (49.6 km.), of which 28.4 miles (45.7 km.) are in Illinois and the remainder in Missouri and in the river crossing. The purpose of this article is primarily to describe the problems involved in the river crossing."
"THE past year resembles the preceding one, in that the notable advances were those of better and more intensive application of available equipment and methods rather than of fundamental discoveries."
"A new reflector that is as efficient as a freshly silvered glass mirror, that will not tarnish nor corrode when exposed continually to the weather, and so hard that the surface can be cleaned with gritty waste without scratching, was described by Dr. Robert J. Piersol, research physicist of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company, in a paper read before a recent meeting of the Illuminating Engineering Society meeting at Detroit."
"S. H. Mortensen: Mr. Drake's paper recognizes the importance of the application of dynamic braking to motors driving rubber mills and similar industrial installations where quick stops are necessary for safety reasons. The importance of this was brought to the speaker's attention in 1918, in connection with the design and operation of a 500-h. p., 450-rev. per min., self-starting synchronous motor, geared to a four-roll rubber-mill drive in the plant of the B. F. Goodrich Company in Akron, Ohio. This motor was installed for power-factor improvement and as it replaced a wound-rotor induction motor, it was connected to the mill by means of the magnetic clutch which formed part of the original motor drive, together with a solenoid-operated brake for stopping the mill in case of accident. As this installation was a novelty at that time, extensive tests were made on this motor. These proved not only its suitability for this type of drive but also that it did have ample starting torque to bring the mill up to speed with the clutch energized. Its pull-out was beyond any load that could be put upon it by overloading the mills with the toughest rubber available."
"Swampscott, Mass., May 7, 1925 B. G. Jamieson: On the system of the Edison Company in Chicago, there has been built up within the last four years, a 33,000-volt nominal voltage, 60-cycle system of about 360,000 kilowatts. The transformers were generally equipped with the tap changing system described, the earlier forms with the double winding, and in other cases, a system which involves the step switching scheme with a connected reactor giving the same effect that the last author described."
"H. B. Smith: It has been recognized for years by educators and managers responsible for engineering and industrial organizations that the closer the contact obtainable between the industry, the engineering organizations, and the colleges, the better for the product of the college going into engineering work."
"C. G. Brown: As a-c. ammeters were previously made, the d-c. readings were so different according to the direction of flow of current that it was not feasible to calibrate on d-c. The metal in the moving system of the a-c. ammeter which Mr. Hoare has described has its direct and reversed d-c. readings so nearly alike that when necessary it can be checked on d-c."
"H. W. Oetinger: Reference is made to the checking of instrument transformers with equivalent secondary burdens. The usual procedure in determining this secondary burden is to calculate it from the published data of the instrument coil constants and the size and length of leads. Where test wiring is used exclusively, there can be no question regarding this procedure but where the test instruments are inserted in conjunction with station instruments and wiring, there is some question as to what is actually in the circuit. In one case it was found that coils of unknown and variable volt-ampere characteristics were left in circuit. In such cases it seems desirable to actually measure the secondary burden and include all connections and instruments to be used during the test. A voltmeter, ammeter and wattmeter can be used in conjunction with a load box. The disconnection is made at the terminals of the instrument transformers and voltage applied to the leads at this point."
"Sabatoga Springs, N. Y., June 25, 1925 J. F. Peters: In Mr. Dahl's paper, as far as I can see, the assumption is made that the triple-frequency component of magnetizing current follows Ohms' law, that is, there is inherently in the transformer a triple-frequency voltage and the triple-frequency component of current that will flow is that voltage divided by a triple-frequency impedance. If this is the ease, then by decreasing the triple-frequency impedance to a small value, the corresponding current could be made quite large. Obviously this cannot be the case because when the triple-frequency current reaches a certain value, which is approximately 40 to 45 per cent of the fundamental-frequency current, the voltage wave takes on a true sine shape in which case the triple-frequency voltage disappears. It may not be possible to decrease this impedance to a very small value within the transformer, but if it is a true impedance, it can be counteracted to any desired degree externally. Also, if no triple-frequency current is permitted to flow, there will be a large triple-frequency voltage appear across each of the phases. In a transformer of commercial proportions and flux density, this voltage would amount to approximately 75 per cent of the fundamental-frequency voltage, which, in the transformer analyzed by Dahl, would amount to 100 volts triple-frequency. Then the triple-frequency current that should flow in any winding-should be that voltage divided by this triple frequency impedance. He finds in winding one a triple-frequency impedance of approximately one-half ohm. This should give a triple-frequency current in the order of 200 amperes. Actual measurements show approximately two amperes."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 25, 1925 J. D. Ball: About ten years ago I was very much interested in investigating the amount and nature of magnetic losses in iron when subjected to a superimposed a-c. and d-c. excitation. We spent three years on this investigation and collected what we could find of the data available at that time. All the results showed quite conclusively that for a given flux change due to alternating current, there was a definite increased loss in the hysteresis if d-c. flux was superimposed upon it, and the greater the superimposed d-c. excitation, the greater the loss. The same conclusion was verified by experiments made at the United States Bureau of Standards, at the Pittsfield Laboratory of the General Electric Company, and also by tests made in the Standardizing Laboratory of the General Electric Company at Schenectady. The results from the various publications studied led us to the same conclusions."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 26, 1925 D. W. Roper: One of the first things that is necessary in order to make improvements in power cables is to know what causes the failure. A paper on dielectric losses in relation to cable failures2 presented before the Niagara Convention outlined one cause of failure and the method of determining when such failures occur. A study of the failures on the cable system in Chicago, however, indicated that only 40 per cent of the failures of the transmission cables could be accounted for on this basis, and we had to look elsewhere for the balance."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 25, 1925 J. B. Whitehead: We have not had sufficient recognition of the importance of dielectric absorption as a factor in the question of dielectric loss. Modern theory of dielectric behavior, such as it is, is directed more and more toward the explanation of dielectric loss in terms of dielectric absorption. That is not to say, however, that we are getting to understand the fundamental character of this loss any better, because there is no more obscure phenomenon than that of dielectric absorption."
"Saratoga Springs, NY, USA, June 23, 1925 P. H. Chase: In discussing the “Present State of Transmission and Distribution Developments,” I wish to mention some of the problems which are confronting engineers in the establishing of a-c. distribution networks."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 23, 1925 E. J. Burnham: I am very much interested in the new type of frequency changer sets, viz.: The Scherbius-controlled set briefly referred to in this paper. This type of set has proven very desirable as a connecting link between two different systems, particularly where the two systems operate at different frequencies. The Scherbius type of frequency changer has one great advantage over the ordinary type of frequency changer, in that the load may be controlled at the point of inter-connection. In other words, it is not necessary that governor settings of prime movers be changed to obtain control of power interchanged."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 24, 1925 C. H. Sharp: There is a development mentioned in Mr. Stickney's report which is very interesting and at the same time which might be overlooked. I refer to his mention of a practical method of realizing the reproducible primary standard of luminous intensity, — something which has been greatly needed for many years. In a paper by Dr. Herbert E. Ives, presented before the International Commission on Illumination at Geneva last summer, Dr. Ives has shown how it is possible to realize in practise a primary standard based on the brightness of a black body radiator at the melting point of platinum. The theoretical proposal of a standard on this basis is not new but was made some years ago by Waidner and Burgess. As a result of that presentation the International Commission on Illumination passed a resolution to the effect that the various national laboratories should be requested to investigate this question along these general lines with a view to proposing definitely a standard of light. It is to be hoped that this will result before many years in having a standard of light which is really fixed and reproducible from specifications."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 23, 1925 D. W. Roper: I should like to suggest more fundamental research on the subject of high-voltage cables. During the past five or six years, the manufacturers in this country have made some wonderful improvements in their workmanship. They have increased the dielectric strength 60 percent in this period as shown by a summary of the record of three of the representative manufacturers. They have reduced the dielectric loss so that this dielectric loss, as the cable leaves the factory, is so low that failures from this cause cannot occur. But in reducing the dielectric loss, they have sacrificed the life of the insulation."
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 24, 1925 H. E. Ramsey: Mr. Crosby brought out the fact that for the first time 60-cycle installations are now in excess of 25-cycle installations in the iron and steel industry. Is this altogether due to new 60-cycle installations, or is there a tendency to change over old ones from 25 to 60 cycles?"
"Saratoga Springs, N. Y., June 23, 1925 D. W. Roper: I should like to suggest that the Committee on Instruments and Measurements give some attention to the question of measurement of dielectric loss or power factor of high-tension cables. A number of the manufacturers have several different schemes in operation, and each manufacturer claims that his particular scheme of measurement is accurate."
"The acceptance of the conception of what might be called wattless flux will clarify the true meaning of that admittedly ambiguous term, self-inductance, about as the conception of the wattless current clarified the distinction between a true resistance, a reactance and an impedance. The basic distinction in both is real vs. apparent energy."
"When exchange of power is undertaken between adjacent utility companies, a decision must be made as to whether these companies are to be operated as independent units delivering definite, predetermined amounts of power to one another, or whether there is to be unitary operation; that is, operation with a single load dispatcher for the zone and coordinated governing of frequency. This is a matter of far reaching importance, as unitary operation calls for a large measure of operating cooperation and for some degree of common interest."
"The illuminating engineer of today is necessarily interested to a surprisingly large degree in the proper application of lighting equipment to the industries. One of the main reasons for this is the fact that the extension and use of the modern standards of lighting have lagged so far behind the development of efficient and effective lighting equipment that even if the latter development were to suddenly cease, there would still be plenty of work for the illuminating engineer for some years to come — merely in increasing and extending the present standards of illumination. From the presidential address given before the annual convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society last October, it becomes apparent that there are several times more men engaged in promoting the commercial aspects of illuminating engineering than there are advancing the technical aspects. In view of this fact, is it any wonder that the Industrial Lighting Campaign this fall will take on a more or less commercial aspect?"
"The annual Pacific Coast Convention, held in Seattle Sept. 15–19, has passed into Institute history and will long be remembered by the fortunate members and guests who participated as exceedingly profitable from a professional standpoint as well as a most enjoyable event socially."
"The first meeting of the New York Section of the A. I. E. E. for the administrative year 1925–26 will be held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, on the evening of Friday, October, 23, 1925."
"The New York Electrical Society will hold its first meeting for the administrative year 1925–26 on the evening of Wednesday, October 7, 1925 in the auditorium, Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"The amendments to the Constitution and By-laws of the Institute, as recently adopted and now in force, provide as follows:"
"The work of revision of the 1922 edition of the A. I. E. E. Standards, which has been in progress for several years, has now reached a stage where a large number of sections of the Standards have been approved by the Board of Directors and are available."
"On Wednesday, September 9th, a party of about forty Canadian Westinghouse engineers, under the chairmanship of their chief, H. U. Hart, met for dinner at the Hamilton Club, to bid farewell to Doctor Herbert Bristol Dwight before he should leave to take up his work as Professor of Electrical Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Beside the chairman, the speakers were C. H. Pook, manager of the works at Hamilton, C. A. Price, Assistant Chief Engineer, C. H. Mitchell, H. M. Bostwick, D. P. Brown and L. B. Chubbuck. Doctor Dwight made a fitting response to the addresses of the evening and the dinner party adjourned to the further enjoyment of a theater party."
"With the opening of the fall term, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has taken another important step by special arrangements with the Bell Telephone System. A carefully selected group of students who have successfully completed the first two years of the regular course in electrical engineering or its equivalent at other institutions, will be sent to New York for four months' service with the Bell Telephone System, part of which time they will be occupied at the plant of the Western Electric Company, Kearney, N. J., learning the actual detail of telephone appliances."
"The City of Philadelphia has awarded to William G. Houskeeper of South Orange, N. J., the John Scott medal for his contribution to technical progress. The award carries with it a premium of $1000 and is made by the City of Philadelphia from the proceeds of a fund left more than one hundred years ago by John Scott of Edinburgh, Scotland."
"The next meeting of the Administrative Board of the American Engineering Council will be held in Columbus, Ohio, October 29 and 30, under the auspices of the Engineers Club of Columbus. The President, James Hartness, former Governor of Vermont, who has been recovering from a prolonged illness following an operation in a Boston hospital, is expected to preside."
"The Engineering Societies Employment Service, under the direction of the secretaries of the four National Societies of Civil, Mechanical, Mining and Electrical Engineers, working in conjunction with the Western Society of Engineers, have opened an office in Chicago. By this arrangement service is more widely available to all members of the four Founder Societies as well as to the members of the Western Society of Engineers and it is felt that this will materially broaden the field both for those desiring positions and those with positions to fill. The Chicago office is under the management of A. K. Krauser, Room 1736, 53 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Ill. (Telephone 1238 Harrison). The New York Office will continue at 33 West 39th St., New York (Telephone Pennsylvania 9220) under the management of W. V. Brown."
"Plans featuring the concrete arch test dam to be erected on Stevenson Creek about 60 miles from Fresno, have been received at Institute Headquarters. These show some of the unique engineering achievements to be introduced into this structure, and give general dimensions, location and application of test pressures to be used in this gigantic investigation of structural values being undertaken in the interest of engineering accomplishment."
"Alan C. Crago, Associate, died September 14th after a brief illness. Mr. Crago was born in South Sharon, Pa., in 1901. His general education was through the Wilkinsburgh High School in 1919, followed by an electrical engineering course at Carnegie Institute of Technology, from which he was graduated in 1923 with a degree of B. S. He was also a graduate student engineer from the training course of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, and was serving them in the capacity of research engineer at the time of his death. He was about to leave for a year's course at the California Institute of Technology, and his work bore signs of great promise. Mr. Crago was joint author of the paper Corona in Oil presented at the last Midwinter Convention of the Institute. He was elected an Associate of the Institute November 1924."
"Philip P. Ash has been promoted to the position of chief signal draftsman of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, Louisville, Ky."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N.Y."
"The April 1925 issue of the Russian publication, Electritchestvo, has been dedicated to the memory of Professor Alexandre S. Popov and thirty years of wireless telegraphy."
"Transmission Line Formulas. Second edition, revised and enlarged; illustrated; D. Van Nostrand. 215 pp., 6 by 9 in.; cloth; price, $3.00 net. A book of unquestionable worth to the profession is Doctor Herbert Bristol Dwight's work entitled Transmission on Line Formulas. This is already in its second edition; a book giving the engineer a set of instructions by which he may be enabled to make good electrical calculations for transmission lines with the least possible amount of labor. Charts, tables of formulas and tables of line constants have been so arranged as to make their application convenient and efficient. Also a number of chapters have been included wherein the derivation of the principal working formulas is given."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 160,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Columbus Oil Engines, Combustion Processes and Gas Engines, by H. F. Shepard and J. F. Dykstra, Springfield, Ohio, and Oil-Engine Locomotives, by L. H. Morrison, New York City. The meeting, including dinner, was held at the Ohio State University. April 24. Attendance 40."
"Drexel Institute Business and Social meeting. The following officers were elected: President, Edwin B. Middleton; Vice-President, Earl F. Blinn; Secretary, William N. Richards; Treasurer, Charles Robb. May 29. Attendance 27."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 83 West 89th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions {of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Applications have been received by the Secretary from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Unless otherwise indicated, the applicant has applied for admission as an Associate. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a higher grade than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the Secretary before October 31, 1925."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the title page for this issue of the publication."
"Never before in the history of the Institute has there been such universal activity on the part of its members through the respective sections and districts all over the country."
"It is believed by many that the most plausible explanation of fibrous insulation failure is the pyroelectric theory. Under this theory as elaborated by Steinmetz, Wagner and others, insulation under stress is heated by the transformation of electric energy to thermal energy. Insulations are considered as of the nature of poor conductors and subject to the same characteristics. The transformation of electric to thermal emergy is therefore dependent upon the inherent electrical and thermal conducting properties of the material. This transformation proceeds at a rate proportional to the stress applied, until such a voltage value is reached where the heat is generated in the insulation at a rate faster than it is dissipated to the surrounding medium. Further increase in voltage leads to a rapidly mounting temperature with ultimate insulation failure. A strict interpretation of this theory would indicate that insulation failure is a matter of the insulation resistance — temperature relation. Therefore, as the heat stored in a dielectric during stress is allowed to dissipate, care being taken to prevent injury from the testing electrodes, etc, the orignial properties of the material should be restored. This has been found to be true only to a limited extent. The present paper deals largely with the effect of relatively high-voltage applications on sheet insulation tested between parallel plate electrodes. It is shown that the question of the mechanism of insulation failure can be separated into two parts. First, failure caused by short-time voltage applications as determined by rapidly applied tests, and secondly, failure of insulation under longer periods of stress as determined by the minute or endurance test methods. Peek has found that voltages greatly in excess of the “rapidly applied” 60-cycle puncture voltage may be applied to the insulation without rupture, if the time of application be sufficiently short. All such over voltages injure the insulation, “probably by a mechanical tearing and the effect is cumulative.” In these experiments of short duration, the problem of heat storage in the insulation is eliminated. Raynor has found that the rapidly applied strength of insulation is greatly lowered by the previous application of a high voltage. This decrease in strength, however, is lost, given sufficient rest period between the initial and final voltage application. These results are substantiated in the work of the present paper. The length of rest period is shown to be proportional to the initial test voltage applied. For tests of long duration, the work of this paper has been divided into two parts, — those voltages producing failure with an arbitarry time limit (16 minutes) and those voltages which are able to be applied for an indefinite time without a puncture. According to the pyroelectric theory, the first class deals with those voltages of such value as to produce a slowly mounting temperature rise in the insulation which ultimately reaches a value leading to rapidly decreasing insulation resistance and total loss of dielectric strength. The second class includes those voltages of such value that the rate of transformation of electric to thermal energy is equaled by the rate of dissipation of the heat so formed; thus preventing heat storage in the insulation. According to the thermal theory of breakdown, neither of these voltages should produce permanent injury to the dielectric, — the first, if removed before the stage indicating rapid loss of insulation resistance is reached, and the second, even if applied indefinitely. The present paper shows that the application of voltages of either of the above types leads to deterioration in dielectric strength of fibrous insulation, even aside from such effects that might be traced to corona or mechanical injury to the material. The effect for voltages of the first class is cumulative and expressed by the formula R × T = K where R = number of repetitions of voltages, T the time of each voltage application, and K the time needed to puncture for the same voltage continuously applied. The application of this formula to various insulations, its limitations, etc., are discussed. The work detailed herein concerns the application of a-c. voltages at room temperature. The investigation is being extended to cover both low and high a-c. and d-c. voltages at and above room temperatures."
"The grounding of electrical circuits supplied from the low voltage side of transformers is recommended as a safety precaution by Dr. M. G. Lloyd, Chief of the Safety Section of the Bureau of Standards. In a paper presented at the meeting of the International Association of Municipal Electricians, Dr. Lloyd pointed out that grounding reduces the danger of fire and accident by preventing the occurrence on the circuit of voltages higher than expected, such as might result from lightning or from crosses with a high-voltage line. Secondary circuits carrying less than 150 volts should always be grounded, he states, and grounding is desirable also for circuits as high as 440 volts."
"Synchronous motor excitation characteristics published hitherto have been incomplete. If theoretically determined, while forming closed loops, some doubt as to their accuracy has been entertained. When determined experimentally, thay have not been complete, in that the so-called unstable portions of the curves have not been obtained, and generally speaking, the upper portions of the characteristics have been missing. This paper shows complete synchronous motor characteristics, experimentally determined, differing materially from published curves determined by theory. These differences are discussed, and their cause attributed to variations in synchronous impedance. Experimental data is included showing the factors on which synchronous impedance depends, and how it varies with current, saturation and power-factor."
"To the Editor: Referring to the paper on Three-Phase Wattmeter Connections, by Philip Chapin Jones, published in the Journal for April 1924: For the past two years I have used and taught the Kouwenhoven Test for checking the correctness of the connections of polyphase watthour meters and, although it is not all that is to be desired from the standpoint of a rule of thumb check, it still is, in my opinion, the nearest approach to such a check that has as yet been proposed."
"1. The critical corona intensities have been determined for helium, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, air, and carbon dioxide for pressures ranging from 2 to 760 mm. 2. In each case the relation ${E \\over P} = A + {B \\over \\sqrt{P}}$ was found to hold approximately for pressures above 4 cm. 3. The values found for air agree well with those found by Whitehead and Isshiki from their investigation of alternating-current corona. 4. No simple relation could be found giving the correction between ${E \\over P} \\ {\\rm and} \\ {1 \\over \\sqrt{P}}$ over the whole range of pressure. 5. The influence of temperature on critical corona intensity was investigated for hydrogen, and found to consist merely of a change in 0, as was expected. 6. It is shown that the data obtained do not permit the explanation of corona as a process of ionization by collision, unless we make further assumptions. The nature of the assumptions necessary is not evident."
"In order to provide for additional electric power to replace that formerly generated at the two stations of the Tokyo Municipality, located at Shibuya and Shinagawa, both of which were destroyed by the 1923 earthquake, the Tokyo City Office has decided to construct one large steam-driven electric-power generating station as soon as a suitable location can be procured."
"The size and complexity of present day power systems have increased to the point where the prediction of the behavior of the system by analytical methods is more and more difficult. The solution of commercial networks by Kirchhoff's Laws or by cut and try methods, even with the help of star-delta transformations, leads to such involved equations that the need for simpler methods is keenly felt. Increasing attention has been given to various methods of representing power systems in miniature so that an experimental solution may be substituted for an algebraic one. The d-c. short circuit calculating table is a satisfactory and relatively simple means of determining short circuit currents in networks, but is too inaccurate to give satisfactory solution under normal operating conditions. An a-c. artificial representation of power networks in miniature has been developed by O. R. Schurig of the General Electric Company who used 3.75-kw. 110-volt three-phase generators as power stations. Actual transformers are used, while lines and loads are made up of conveniently arranged lumped units of inductance, capacity, and resistance. This apparatus has been in satisfactory operation for several years. Evans and Bergvall of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company used a test floor setup to check experimentally the theory of long line stability. Powers of about 500 kv-a. were used. The present paper presents a method of artificial representation on a laboratory scale, decreasing the size of the apparatus and increasing the precision of the results. All rotating apparatus has been eliminated. Generators are represented by phase shifting transformers; transformers by their equivalent circuits, and lines by lumped constants. A description of the apparatus used by the writers is presented, together with the results which were obtained by its use in the solution of several typical problems. An analytical check on one of the examples is given, showing a precision of better than 1 per cent."
"An experimental method is presented for segregating the various no-load losses of a squirrel-cage induction motor. It is shown that for insulated rotor bars the losses consist principally of stator fundamental-frequency losses, rotor surface losses and eddy-current losses in the rotor bars due to radial and tangential slot-leakage fluxes in the rotor slots caused by reluctance pulsations in the air gap between stator and rotor teeth. The pulsation losses vary about as the square of the air-gap induction and about as the 1.2 power of the frequency. The surface losses for the particular slots described are from ¼ to ⅓ of the total pulsation losses. The pulsation losses are approximately the same whether or not the rotor bars are connected by end rings, and are approximately equal to the stator fundamental-frequency losses."
"The French physicist, Poincare, some time ago announced a theorem to the effect that it is not possible to induce a constant e. m. f. by means of motion without the use of electric contacts sliding over circles of appreciable diameters. It is believed that this is generally accepted and taught as a universal law."
"Through misunderstanding, we published in the December Journal, under the above heading, a news item in regard to some lamp tests made by the Bureau of Standards “during the past month.” These tests were made in May instead of November as indicated, and formed part of the Photometria Sections' work for the fiscal year ending on June 30, 1924."
"For relatively long-term predictions of central station demand and output, of the order of one year or more, the use of constant (or approximately constant) yearly percentages of growth is common and well understood. This method is frequently applied by straight, or nearly straight, line projection of the plot of past data on semi-logarithmic paper. When the term of the prediction is less than one year, or when detailed estimates are required throughout any year, this method fails on account of the seasonal variations. In this paper is investigated the nature of the seasonal variations in the daily load curve of the company with which the author is connected, as they affect the output and the peak demand. The variation of the kilowatt-hour output is first analyzed: and it is found that, in a year fairly free from abnormal business conditions, a plot of the “normal mid-week day” outputs on semi-logarithmic paper can well be rationalized to a curve whose components are an inclined straight line and a single-frequency sine curve. This curve is represented analytically by the following equation: $y = J \\ e^{kr} [1 + L \\ \\cos (0.986 \\, r - M)^{0}]$ In this equation, e is the base of the natural system of logarithms: r, the number of days (positive or negative as the case may be) counted from a given zero date: and J, k, L and M are parameters to be determined for each curve. Factors are included for determining the output on holidays, Sundays, Mondays and Saturdays, as compared with adjacent “normal” mid-week days.” For short-term peak demand predictions, the method employed is to separate into three components that portion of the daily load curve beginning at 2.30 P. M. and ending one and one-half hours after sunset. These three components are a constant “base load,” an “afternoon block” and an “evening block.” In the formula; $z = A \\ F \\, (t) + B \\, f (t) + C$ expressing this condition, the maximum value of the afternoon block is designated A, the maximum value of the evening block B, and the value of the base load C. Both F (t) and f (t) are found to be exponentials in the data used and their forms are given with methods of evaluating the parameters. However, even this stage having been reached, the formula is still in awkward shape for obtaining, analytically, the solution most often desired, — namely, the value of the peak demand and the time at which it will occur. A graphical construction is, therefore, developed which solves simultaneously for these two quantities. This solution is equally valid if the form of F (t) and that off (t) are defined only graphically, it is not necessary that their analytical expression should be known, nor even that they should be analytical in character."
"A conference of electroplaters was held at the Bureau of Standards on November 14 and 15. The papers presented covered the progress which has been made in the Bureau's laboratories in connection with electroplating research as well as the experience of those engaged in the commercial application of the subject. Valuable suggestions were made as to the lines along which future research can most profitably be directed."
"THE oscillograph is an instrument which has been extensively employed by electrical engineers in electrical measurements. It has been used not only in connection with electrical oscillations, such as alternating electromotive forces and alternating currents, but also in connection with acyclic electrical phenomena, such as the current required to blow a fuse, or the discharge current of a condenser. This paper describes methods by which the oscillograph may be used in mechanical measurements. This requires that the mechanical phenomena must affect an electric current which is being continuously recorded on the oscillograph."
"A survey of progress in radio reveals that this is the era of radio engineering. This statement does not refer to the importance or extent of radio engineering but to the type of development now going on in radio as compared with that of past years. Relatively speaking, radio has been crude heretofore, whereas the progress now being made is not merely empirical but is more largely characterized by actual engineering development. We now have not so much the invention of devices as the perfection of them. This statement is very general. There have, of course, been triumphs of engineering in the past history of radio, and on the other hand the process of “cut and try” will continue to be used in the future. Nevertheless, broadly speaking, radio engineering has now taken definite form and is the tool by which further progress in radio will be wrought."
"W. S. Lee: Mr. Barfoed's paper, like any one touching on hydro-electrical practise and the whole series of operations on the West Coast, could be divided and make good subjects for forty papers."
"E. E. F. Creighton: It seems to me that Mr. Young's tests are in the direction to satisfy the users of lightning arresters. The users have felt for some years the need of tests aside from those of the manufacturers, developers, and designers of lightning arresters. It is important to recognize the limitations of the tests as carried on outside of a thoroughly equipped laboratory. On one hand there is the possibility of separating the sheep from the goats. There are on the market types of lightning arresters which are really not dischargers at all and have no particular value. The operator should be able with his tests to separate arresters of good discharge rate from those that have practically no discharge rate."
"E. E. F. Creighton: Mr. Stauffacher's paper is an excellent record of observations. It is the type of paper that builds up and confirms standards of practise. It is of value both to the operators and the manufacturers."
"Robert Treat: Those who have had occasion to try to calculate the division of current in parallel high-voltage and low-voltage lines, will have great admiration for Mr. Thomas' courage in undertaking the solution of a problem of the magnitude of this one. Those who have not been brought in contact with such computations, probably have very little conception of the difficulty of the task."
"H. L. Wills: When Mr. Slaughter announced that he was going to talk on one watt, I said to myself, “Good heavens, that's the same old thing all over again; that is what they always do — they keep going lower down in the scale of power, and we keep going the other way, and then they expect us to live together decently when we are both so far apart!”"
"S. R. Bergman: I think this new motor is a courageous attempt to deal with a difficult and complex problem, namely, the problem of power-factor correction. This motor is of the synchronous type and therefore has a constant speed over the running range. This feature, however, is of no advantage since experience has shown that the small amount of slip in the standard induction motor gives an excellent speed characteristic."
"R. B. Williamson (by letter): This paper is of special interest to me because I happened to be responsible for the design of one of the 32,500-kv-a. units installed in this station in 1919, and also have had in charge the design of a 65,000-kv-a. unit which will be put in the same station alongside the unit described. At the time the 32,500-kv-a. units were started, they were the largest of their kind but they had been in operation but a short time before plans were made by The Niagara Falls Power Company to install three additional units of 65,000-kv-a. output. The three 32,500-kv-a. units have now been in operation for four years or more and have given excellent service. Further, these units showed a very high efficiency, 97.5 to 98 per cent, and the larger unit was not adopted with the expectation of securing any material gain in efficiency. Neither does the large generator cost appreciably less per kv-a. output, since the speed is lower and the weight per kv-a. somewhat higher. It may be repeated here, that the 32,500-kv-a. units operate at 150 r. p. m. as against 107 r. p. m. in the ease of the 65,000-kv-a. machine."
"L. P. Ferris: The paper by Messrs. Weber and Lee shows that, from the point of view of the power company, or power user, there is some advantage in the elimination of the higher harmonies which, as you all know, have a detrimental effect upon neighboring communication circuits under some conditions of association."
"C. A. Butcher: The equipment of the earliest installations of automatic substations in mines was considerably more complex than was required for this service. Today the coalmining substation, automatically operated, is a great deal simpler."
"Carl Lee: The close agreement between the calculated cycle and the actual cycle of operation is very interesting and illustrates the high accuracy to which the design of electric hoists has been developed."
"C S. Butcher: One of the earliest installations of automatic equipment in industrial plants was in the motor car industry in Detroit, where two 1,500 kw. motor generators are used to augment the power supplied by a steam plant. The steam plant is located at one end of the manufacturing aisle, which is some 600 ft. or so long, and a very heavy bus runs through a tunnel from the power house to the load, which is distributed along the bus quite uniformly. It was found, in making a study of the power plant, that the steam costs were very high, however in the wintertime the exhaust steam is used for heating, and in working out the economics of the problem it was found that if substations were located along the bus, the steam plant, during the summer months could be shut down and considerable saving realized by purchasing power."
"Edward T. Moore: The only question that I would bring up would be the initial cost; whether the savings per ton would carry the additional interest on the increased investment involved in that type of mill over the ordinary installation?"
"G. E. Stoltz: Mr. Moore has described a device here that will interest a good many people. I have quite frequently been asked if there was such a device that would prevent establishing a high demand peak, at the expense of the customer and also to the disadvantage of a power company since it must be able to serve this customer with these abnormal peaks."
"E. E. F. Creighton: In Mr. Bennett's paper he gives a description of his attractive design of arrester. Mr. Bennett has properly put the question of theory and operation to this independent body, — the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. There are two devices and two principles involved; one principle depends on a tube of electrolyte, and the other principle is known as the “liquid electrode.”"
"H. M. Gassman: I would like to ask a question as to whether any experiments, including the effect of uranium salts in electrolyte, have been made?"
"F. D. Newbury: Operating engineers have often raised the question of the possible effect of extreme expansion and contraction in long cores, and this series of experiments, which lasted something over two years, was started in an attempt to find a quantitative answer to that question."
"V. Karapetoff: We may say, with fair assurance, that the problem of short circuits in synchronous machinery, and for that matter, in induction machines, will be with us for some time to come. The means so far used for representing these phenomena have been either cumbersome or insufficient, and I believe it is time for us to decide that in the question of short-circuits we ought to go back to the very fundamental physical facts. Let us begin our treatment not with some secondary laws, such as were admirably presented here, but with primary laws in the existence of which we have not a shade of doubt."
"C. A. M. Weber: I just wish to mention two experiences I have had in connection with this phenomenon a number of years ago. The final solution of one of these experiences does not conform to what Mr. Alger has just said and I would like to have an explanation from him."
"At the annual convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society in September 1923, Mr. W. H. Rademacher2 presented a paper of which the title is given above. Prior to its preparation, the author made an investigation at 12 of the leading steel mills located in Pittsburgh, Youngstown and Chicago districts. He had also available information from previous investigations, notably a similar survey made in 1911."
"In the summer of 1923, the Committee on Papers of the Illuminating Engineering Society, submitted a problem to a number of members interested in street lighting. The subject was one mile of thoroughfare, forming one of the main arteries of travel in and out of a city of 100,000 population. The street was 40 ft. wide from curb to curb, and 70 ft. between property lines. Lines of trolley poles extended along each side of the street."
"The coming Midwinter Convention in New York, February 9 to 12, will disclose some excellent new information in several technical fields. Sessions have been scheduled on electrical machinery, electrophysics, instruments and measurements, communication and transmission. In addition there will be one good paper each on storage batteries and central-station statistics. The Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, will be convention headquarters."
"The second regional convention of the Institute has been scheduled to be held in Washington, D. C., on January 23 and 24, at the Washington Hotel. This meeting will be conducted under the direction of Geographical District No. 2 and will be especially sponsored by the members in the eastern part of that District."
"The Spring Convention which will be held in St. Louis, April 13–17, will offer the latest information on a large variety of subjects. Notable among these will be new power plants, marine installations, automatic stations, communication, industrial applications in cement and paper mills and in mines. Stability of high-voltage transmission will be covered as well as several other topics. St. Louis is of particular interest because it is a center of industrial enterprises and a convention there should draw many engineers connected with industrial applications."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, December 5, 1924."
"As provided in Section 19 of the Institute By-Laws, candidates may now be proposed for nomination for the offices to be filled at the next annual election in May, 1925, by the petition or by the separate endorsement in writing, of not less than twenty-five members. The petitions or separate endorsements must be in the hands of the Secretary not later than January 25, 1925. For the convenience of members, a form of petition has been prepared by the Secretary, and copies of it may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters. Endorsements may, however, be made by letter if the form is not available. A member is not limited in the number of candidates he may endorse in this manner."
"The Edison Medal for the year 1924 has been awarded by the Edison Medal Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers to John White Howell of Newark, New Jersey, “for his contributions toward the development of the incandescent lamp.”"
"At the December meeting of the Board of Directors, the Special Committee on Election Procedure, appointed in the spring of 1924, to study the election procedure of the Institute, submitted a report recommending some changes in the method of election, whereby but one ballot would be sent out to the membership instead of, as in the past, a nomination ballot and later an election ballot. It is also proposed to institute a Nominating Committee, composed of one representative from each of the ten Geographical Districts of the Institute and five additional members, selected by the Board of Directors, making a total of fifteen members — who shall prepare an official nominees ticket after giving consideration to all suggestions that may be received from the membership. Provision will also be made for other candidates upon nomination by groups of members."
"What has caused the growth of a professional engineering organization from a membership of about twelve hundred in 1901 to over sixteen thousand in 1924? What real service does the American Institute of Electrical Engineers render to the profession, to society and to its membership? What does it do and how is it organized to accomplish results?"
"There will be unveiled at Niagara Falls at noon January 3, a tablet of enduring bronze to mark the location of the first large-scale development of Niagara power."
"In commemoration of the first ennunciation one hundred years ago by Nicolas Leonard Sadi Carnot, scientist-engineer, of the principles of the thermodynamic cycle, a meeting under the joint auspices of the four national engineering societies, the American Physical Society, the American Chemical Society, Columbia and New York Universities, Stevens Institute, College of City of New York, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Pratt Institute and Cooper Union, was held on the evening of Thursday, December 4, 1924, in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York City."
"The General Electric Company have made some active changes in their force, and the resignation of G. E. Emmons, as vice-president in charge of manufacturing and chairman of the manufacturing committee has led to the appointment of Francis C. Pratt to take his place. Mr. Pratt's new title will be vice-president in charge of engineering and manufacturing. He will have has his assistant vice-president H. F. T. Erben, with E. W. Allen as engineering assistant."
"K. B. Seely, who was previously with Webster & Stone, Inc., is now one of the staff of the Condit Electrical Manufacturing Co., Boston."
"In the death of John Lyell Harper, Vice-President and Chief Engineer of the Niagara Falls Power Company, the electrical world loses a potent factor. Recognized as one of the world's greastest hydroeleetic engineers, his work will remain a lasting monument to his achievement by diligent application to promotion of his profession. Mr. Harper was but fifty-one at the time of his death, November 28th, 1924."
"The annual meeting of the American Engineering Council will be held in Washington, January 16–17, 1925. The Administrative Board of the Council will also convene there on the previous day, January 15th."
"At the annual meeting of the American Engineering Standards Committee on December 11, Mr. Charles E. Skinner, a representative of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, was elected chairman for the year 1925, and Mr. Charles Rufus Harte, representative of the American Electric Railway Association, was elected Vice-Chairman."
"A conference has been called by the American Engineering Standards Committee, for Tuesday, January 13th, 1925, at 10 a. m., in Room 1001 of the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th St. The purpose of this meeting will be the discussion of Overhead Line Materials, and the meeting is called in accordance with special recommendations of the Committee for the standardization of materials as made by the American Electric Railway Association."
"The Standard Electrical Dictionary: By T. O'Conor Sloane, A. M., E. M., Ph. D., Author of “Arithmetic of Electricity,” etc., etc. Revised and enlarged by Prof. A. E. Watson, of Brown University. The Norman W. Henley Publishing Co., New York, N. Y. 5 by 7 in. Cloth. $5.00. An eleetrical dictionary which assumes the proportions of a handbook as well. The author attributes much of its unusual values to its revision and enlargement by Prof. E. Watson, of Brown University. The work contains 790 pages, comprehensively covering the science of electricity in its varying known phases, inclusive of most recent developments, even to the addition of radio terms. It is also profusely illustrated with 497 cuts and diagrams to elucidate the text. It has been said that the modest term “dictionary” but inadequately describes the scope of this book, the definite completeness of which might will prove a valuable adjunct to the library of any electrical engineering student."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 89 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers as a cooperative bureau available only to their membership, and maintained by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge and will not be repeated, except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of 82000 or less per annum; 810 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case and with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Note: This paper, read before the Bell System Educational Conference, Chicago, June 22–27, 1925, discusses the character and scope of the important problems involved in caring for the growth and operation of the Bell System. The plant extensions necessary to meet service requirements and the necessity of advanced planning are first taken up. The uses of the “Commercial Survey,” the “Fundamental Plan” and engineering cost studies are analyzed to illustrate how an engineer attacks the problem of furnishing satisfactory telephone service to the public. A discussion of the New York-Chicago toll cable and the telephone problem in New York City, as illustrative of specific engineering problems, concludes the paper."
"This article discusses the complete analysis, from a manufacturing point of view, to which every item of telephone apparatus is submitted at the Hawthorne Plant of the Western Electric Company. These works employing, at present, about 25,000, produce over 110,000 different kinds of parts which enter into some 13,000 separate forms of apparatus. The advantages of careful engineering analysis of each new job coming to the factory, as well as those which have been in production, are brought out. The various steps which are worked out in connection with each analysis are as follows: manufacturing drawings; the proper manufacturing operations and their sequence; the machines best adapted to carrying out these operations; determination of the kind of tools, gauges, weighing and other equipment; the determination of the probable hourly output for each operation; the grade and rate of pay for the operators; the kind and amount of raw material required; manufacturing layouts which tell the entire shop organization; each step in the production of the parts, and finally the best rate to be paid for each operation. In conclusion, the author discusses the personnel of the Planning Organization."
"The development of long distance telephone transmission has made the question of line irregularities a matter of great importance because of their harmful effect in producing echo currents and causing the repeaters to sing. The structure of coil-loaded circuits permits the calculation of the probability of obtaining an assigned accuracy of balance between line and network when certain data are known or assumed regarding the accuracy of loading coil inductance and section capacity. Formulae are given and the results of calculations compared with measurements made on circuits of known accuracy of loading."
"Note: As professor of vocal physiology, Alexander Graham Bell did pioneer research in “devising methods of exhibiting the vibrations of sounds optically.” In 1873, he became familiar with the phonautograph, developed by Scott and Koenig in 1859, and with the manometric capsule, developed by Koenig in 1862. Greatly impressed by the success of these instruments “to reproduce to the eye those details of sound vibration that produce in our ears the sensation we term timbre, or quality of sound” Bell used an improved form of the phonautograph having a stylus of wood about a foot long. He obtained “large and very beautiful tracings of the vibrations of the air of vowel sounds” upon a smoked glass. In describing his early attempts to improve the methods and apparatus for making speech waves visible and to interpret wave form, Bell wrote: “I then sang the same vowels, in the same way, into the mouth-piece of the manometric capsule, and compared the tracings of the phonautograph with the flame-undulations visible in the mirror. The shapes of the vibrations obtained in the two ways were not exactly identical, and I came to the conclusion that the phonautograph would require considerable modification to be adapted to my purpose. The membrane was loaded by being attached to a long lever, and the bristle, too, at the end of the lever, seemed to have a definite rate of vibration of its own. These facts led me to imagine that the true form of vibration characteristic of the sounds of speech had been distorted in the phonautograph by the instrumentalities employed. I therefore made many experiments to improve the construction of the instrument. I constructed, at home, quite a number of different forms of phonautographs, using membranes of different diameters and thicknesses, and of different materials, and changing the shape of the attached lever and bristle.” Struck by the likeness of the phonautograph and the mechanism of the human ear, Bell conceived the idea of making an instrument modeled after the pattern of the ear, thinking it would probably produce more accurate tracings of speech vibrations. In 1874, he consulted a distinguished aurist, Dr. Clarence Blake of Boston, who suggested that instead of trying to make an instrument modeled after the human ear, the human ear itself be used. Dr. Blake prepared a specimen containing the membrane of tympanum with two bones attached, the malleus and incus. The other bone, the stapes, was removed and a stylus of wheat straw about one inch long was substituted. A sort of speaking tube was arranged to take the place of the outer ear. “When a person sang or spoke to this ear, I was delighted to observe the vibrations of all the parts and the style of hay vibrated with such amplitude as to enable me to obtain tracings of the vibrations on smoked glass.” In the accompanying paper, Dr. I. B. Crandall describes modern methods whereby with the most refined apparatus, highly accurate speech wave forms have been produced. The analysis and interpretation of both vowel and consonant sounds made possible by these records, are the realization of an objective sought by Bell a half century ago. This article is the result of an extended study of 160 graphical records of vowel and consonant sounds, of which a few are reproduced in the present publication. One hundred and four of these records are of vowel sounds and formed the basis of the “Dynamical Study of the Vowel Sounds,” by I. B. Crandall and C. F. Sacia which was published in this Journal in April, 1924. The purpose of the present article is to describe all of the records in sufficient detail, including in one discussion the outstanding characteristics of vowel, semi-vowel and consonant sounds; it is hoped shortly to supplement this with a reproduction of a larger group of records from the complete collection. — Editor."
"IN the past, much research has been devoted to the determination of the relative magnitudes of the frequency components of speech, and the results of these explorations are useful and well known. Thus the communication engineer is apprised of the frequency range over which his apparatus should respond uniformly in order that the transmitted speech suffer no frequency distortion. But to provide against load distortion, he requires the knowledge of a different kind of data: numerical values of the magnitude of power involved in speech waves as a whole. This investigation deals with the magnitudes and forms of speech waves primarily in terms of power, and is not concerned with frequency as the argument."
"EVERY atom-model that is worthy of notice was designed in view of a certain limited group of facts. That is to say, every valuable atom-model is the invention of somebody who, being acquainted with certain of the ways in which matter behaves, set himself to the devising of atoms of which an assemblage should behave like matter in those ways. Of course, it would be a most wonderful achievement to conceive atoms, of which assemblages should behave like matter in all ways; but this is too exalted an ambition for this day and generation, no man of science bothers with it. Each atom-model of the present is partially valid, not universally; and nobody can rightly appreciate any one of them, unless he knows the facts for which it was designed. I might add that he should also know the relative importance, in the world and in life, of the facts for which it was designed. But this also is too exalted an ambition; we do not know much, if anything, about the relative importance of facts sub specie aternitatis, and can hardly refrain from regarding with an especial favour the facts which happen to have been successfully explained. At all events it is clear that every account of an atom-model should be preceded by an independent account of the things it is meant to explain. For the favorite atom of these days, the atom of Rutherford and Bohr, I have provided this preliminary account of the facts in the First Part of the article. Let me give a brief outline of the most important among them, before entering upon the task of constructing an atom-model to reproduce them."
"Note: This is the first of three installments by Mr. Carson which will embody material given by him in a course of lectures at the Moore School of Electrical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, May, 1925. No effort has been spared by the author to make his treatment clear and as simple as the subject matter will permit. The method of presentation is distinctively pedagogic. To electrical engineers and to engineering instructors, this exposition of the fundamentals of electric circuit theory and the operational calculus should be of great value. — Editor."
"Commercial Loading of Telephone Cables. W. FONDILLER.1 The application of loading coils to exchange area cable and to toll cable is discussed and data given on the loading coils and the transmission characteristics of loaded cable circuits."
"ALTHOUGH abler pens1 have expressed appreciation of the late Oliver heaviside, it is perhaps permissible for an English telephone engineer to present a note regarding him. Of his life-history not very much is known; but he may have been influenced in his choice of a career by the fact that he was a nephew of the famous telegraph engineer Sir Charles Wheatstone. Heaviside was born in London on May 13, 1850; he entered the service of the GreatNorthern Telegraph Company, operating submarine cables, and he remained in that service, at Newcastle-on-Tyne, until 1874. While he was with the Telegraph Company, he published in 1873 a paper showing the possibility of quadruplex telegraphy."
"With an increase of traffic carrying capacity of 300% over that of corresponding cables of the previous art, the New York-Azores permalloy-loaded cable marks a revolution in submarine cable practice. This cable represents the first practical application of inductive loading to transoceanic cables. The copper conductor of the cable is surrounded by a thin layer of the new magnetic material, permalloy, which serves to increase its inductance and consequently its ability to transmit a rapid succession of telegraph signals. This paper explains the part played by loading in the operation of a cable of the new type and discusses some of the problems which were involved in the development leading up to the first commercial installation. Particular attention is given to those features of the transmission problem wherein a practical cable differs from the ideal cable of previous theoretical discussions. Brief mention is made of means of operating loaded cables and the possible trend of future development."
"Note: The material given in this paper was prepared in a more condensed form for publication in the International Critical Tables. In order to make it available in convenient form for the use of telephone engineers it was deemed advisable to publish it in this journal. The author is indebted to Dr. J. C. Steinberg for able assistance in collecting and arranging the material."
"The driving-point impedance of an electrical network composed of any number of resistances, arranged in any way, and two pure reactances, of any degree of complication within themselves but not related to each other by mutual reactance, inserted at any two points in the resistance network, is limited to an eccentric annular region in the complex plane which is determined by the resistance network alone. The boundaries of this region are non-intersecting circles centered on the axis of reals. The diameter of the exterior boundary extends from the value of the impedance when both reactances are short-circuited to its value when both are open-circuited. The diameter of the interior boundary extends from the value of the impedance when one reactance is short-circuited and the other open-circuited to its value when the first reactance is open-circuited and the second short-circuited. When either reactance is fixed and the other varies over its complete range, the locus of the driving-point impedance is a circle tangent to both boundaries. By means of this grid of intersecting circles the locus of the driving-point impedance may be shown over any frequency range or over any variation of elements of the reactances. This is most conveniently done on a doubly-sheeted surface. The paper is illustrated by numerical examples."
"THE ordinary telephone receiver is one of the most sensitive known detectors of weak alternating currents over a considerable part of the audible frequency range. Its high sensitivity, combined with its simplicity and convenience, have led to its general adoption as the detecting element in the AC impedance bridge and other measuring apparatus employing the nul method. There are also a number of cases outside of the laboratory where a knowledge of the behavior of the receiver operating near its minimum audible power input is of importance. In apparatus developed during the World War, such as that for detecting and locating submarines, in radio reception, and in the reception of various other sorts of signals, the receiver is frequently operated near the threshold of audibility. While it is in general possible to employ a vacuum tube amplifier to render weak signals more easily audible, considerations of cost or increased complication often make it impracticable to do so. In any case, if it is desired to reduce to the limit the minimum audible signal, it is necessary to know the constants of the receiver working on these low power inputs, in order to design intelligently its circuits and other associated apparatus."
"MORE than any other word of the language, the word atom is implicated with the history of human speculations concerning the nature uf things. It is introduced when people cease to content themselves with observing, and begin to philosophize. There are many of the fundamental and essential writings of the literature of physics in which it does not appear, or appears without warrant. These are the descriptions of things observed, the accounts of experiments, the records of measurements, on which the edifice of theoretical physics is founded. There are many articles of what is commonly called the “theoretical” sort in which it does not occur. Such are the papers on the motions of planets, on the vibrations of elastic solids, on the currents in electrical networks, on the courses of light-rays through optical systems-papers which are essentially descriptions, although they give the impression of being something greater and deeper because they relate to idealized cases, and are phrased in the laconic language of mathematics. When the word atom appears justifiably in a discourse, it means that the author has departed from the safe routine of describing observed and observable events, however selectively, however skilfully, however intelligently. It signifies that he has gone beyond the limits of observation, and has entered upon the audacious adventure of constructing by the side of the real universe an ideal one, which shall act as the real one does, and be intelligible through and through."
"This paper gives analyses of observations of long-wave transmission across the Atlantic over a period of about two years. The principal conclusions which the data seem to justify are as follows: 1. Solar radiation is shown to be the controlling factor in determining the diurnal and seasonal variations in signal field. Transmission from east to west and west to east exhibit similar characteristics. 2. Transmission in the region bordering on the division between the illuminated and the darkened hemispheres is characterized by increased attenuation. This manifests itself in the sunset and sunrise dips, the decrease in the persistence of high night-time values in summer and the decrease in daylight values during the winter. 3. Definite correlation has been found between abnormal radio transmission and disturbances in the earth's magnetic field. The effect is to decrease greatly the night-time field strength and to increase slightly the daylight values. 4. The limit of the high-night-time value of signal field strength for transatlantic distance is essentially that given by the Inverse Distance Law. The normal daylight field strengths obtained in these tests can be aproximated by a formula of the same form as those earlier proposed but with somewhat different constants. 5. The major source of long wave static, as received in both England and the United States, is indicated to be of tropical origin. 6. In general, the static noise is lower at the higher frequencies. At night the decrease with increase in frequency is exponential. In day-time the decrease with increase in frequency is linear in the range of 15 to 40 kilocycles. The difference between day and night static is, therefore, apparently due largely to daylight attenuation. 7. The effect of the static noise in interfering with signal transmission. as shown by the diurnal variations in the signal-to-noise ratio, is found to be generally similar on both sides of the Atlantic. 8. Experiments in both the United States and England with directional receiving antennas of the wave antenna type show an average improvement in the signal-to-static ratio of about 5 as compared with loop reception."
"Radioactivity.1 A. F. KOVARIK and L. W. MCKEEHAN. This review of progress in radioactivity forms one of a series of monographs prepared by committees of the National Research Council. It outlines the experimental and theoretical advances in the subject since 1916, the date of the last compendium. The section headings are: I. Introduction, II. Radioactive Transformations, III. Alpha-Rays, IV. Beta-Rays, V. Gamma-Rays, VI. Nuclear Structure and Radioactive Processes, VII. Radioactivity in Geology and Cos-mi ilogy, VIII. The Effects of Radioactive Radiations upon Matter. The references to periodical literature are particularly detailed."
"THE subject assigned to me in the “Notes Regarding the Program of the Conference” is “The Theoretical Principles of Economic Studies and Their Possible Application in Undergraduate Courses.” With your permission, I shall digress somewhat from a literal consideration of this title. I shall not undertake to derive formulae, to set up equations and to obtain maxima and minima from them. The mathematics can readily be obtained from available sources. On the other hand, I shall attempt to outline the field for economic studies in engineering work, using illustrations drawn from telephone engineering practice."
"BECAUSE of the fact that it is a difficult and expensive matter to build and maintain the high grade circuits that are required for modern long distance telephone transmission with repeaters. many workers in this field have attempted to devise some form of two-way repeater which would be able to give as large a gain as desired without singing or poor quality due to irregularities existing in the lines. They have thought that if such a repeater could lie constructed it would permit the use of lines less carefully built and, therefore, cheaper than are at present required, and that fewer repeaters would lie required because larger gains could be obtained at each repeater."
"This paper describes the practical applications of transmission maintenance methods in a telephone system. The methods applicable to toll circuits of various types are first discussed, information being included in this connection on the maintenance of the amplifier circuits involved in telephone repeaters and carrier. Testing methods applicable to the local or exchange area plant are next described, the description including both manual and machine switching systems. The results accomplished in toll and local transmission maintenance work are considered from the standpoint of the kinds of trouble which can be eliminated and the effect which these troubles n service. The methods described in the main body of the paper relate particularly to test volume efficiency. Certain other transmission maintenance testing directly associated with volume efficiency tests are briefly describe Appendix A of the paper."
"Principles of Generalized Dissymmetrical Networks. We shall consider first the impedance and propagation characteristics of certain generalized networks, It can be shown that any passive network having one pair of input and one pair of output terminals may, at any frequency, be completely and adequately represented by an equivalent T or π network.1 The impedance and propagation characteristics of any such network may be expressed in terms of its equivalent T or π network. These characteristics are defined by (1) the image impedances, and (2) the transfer constant, the latter including the attenuation constant.2 and the phase constant.2 In the case of a symmetrical network, the image impedances and the transfer constant are, respectively, the iterative impedances (or characteristic impedances) and the propagation constant employed by Campbell, Zobel, and others. The terms involved will be subsequently defined."
"THE physicists of a quarter of a century ago, who devoted themselves to the study of electricity in gases, were happily inspired; for among the myriad of intricate and obscure phenomena which they observed there are some few of an extreme simplicity, in which the qualities of the individual atoms of matter and electricity are manifest; in analyzing these they entered upon the path that led most directly to the deeper understanding of nature which is superseding the physics of the nineteenth century, and the physics of today is founded upon their efforts. The electron was perceived for the first time in the course of observations on the electric discharge in rarefied gases, and other experiments in the same field established the atom in science as a real and definite object. The discovery of the atom is commonly credited to the chemists; yet fifteen years have not passed since students of chemistry were being warned by a famous teacher that “atom” and “molecule” are figurative words, not on any account to be taken literally! The laws of chemical combination were held insufficient to prove that atoms have any real existence; though elements may always combine with one another in unchanging proportions, this does not prove anything about the weights of the atoms, or their sizes, or their qualities, or even that all the atoms of an element have the same weight, or even that there are any atoms at all. Now that we are past the necessity for this caution, and can count atoms, and measure their masses, and infer something about their structure, and estimate how close together they can approach, and know what happens to them when they strike one another or are struck by electrons; now that we can fill in the picture of the atom with so many and so diverse details, we are indebted for this progress chiefly to the men who gathered the data and made the theories concerning the conduction of electricity in gases. Many will remember how in the years before the great war this field of research seemed the most vital part of physics, the most inspired with a sense of new life and swift advance; now others share with it the centre of the stage, but they won their places chiefly because of the light it shed upon them."
"THE use of power from hydro-electric generating stations and centra] steam plants has increased until single companies serve a territory of many thousands of square miles and the problem of coordinating the distributing centers with the generating stations has steadily increased in complexity."
"Photomechanical Wave Analyzer Applied to Inharmonic Analysis.1 C. F. SACIA. This type of Fourier Analysis deals with wave-forms which are not strictly periodic, since they are of finite duration and of varying cyclic forms. Hence in a finite frequency range they have an infinite number of infinitesimal components (shown by the Fourier Integral) as contrasted with the finite number of finite components at regular intervals (shown by the Fourier Series)."
"THE problem of directly transmitting drawings, figures and photographs from one point to another by means of electricity has long attracted the attention and curiosity of scientists and engineers.1 The broad principles of picture transmission have been recognized for many years. Their reduction to successful practice, however, required, among other things, the perfection of methods for the faithful transmission of electrical signals to long distances, and the development of special apparatus and methods which have become a part of the communication art only within the last few years. Prominent among the newer developments which have facilitated picture transmission are the photoelectric cell, the vacuum tube amplifier, electrical filters, and the use of carrier currents."
"The comparatively poor transmission of radio waves of two or three hundred meters indicates some sort of selective effect in the atmosphere. Such an effect is found to result from the existence of free electrons in the atmosphere when the magnetic field of the earth is taken into account. In the earth's magnetic field, which is about one-half gauss, this selective effect will occur at a wave length of approximately 200 meters. Ionized hydrogen molecules or atoms result in resonant effects at frequencies of a few hundred cycles, this being outside of the radio range. The paper, however, takes into account the effects of ionized molecules as well as electrons. The result of this combination is that the electric vector of a wave traveling parallel to the magnetic field is rotated. Waves traveling perpendicular to the magnetic field undergo double refraction. Critical effects are observed in rotation, bending of the wave and absorption at the resonant frequency. The paper develops the mathematical theory of these phenomena and gives formulas for the various effects to be expected."
"FOR a number of years chestnut timber, because of its many desirable characteristics, has served a broad field of usefulness in telephone line construction work, not only in its native territory, the eastern and southeastern part of the united States, but also in neighboring states. In fact, as an average, about 200,000 chestnut poles are set annually in the Bell System plant as replacements and in new lines."
"The present paper has its inception in the need of a correct understanding of the behavior of selective circuits when subjected to irregular and random interference, and of devising a practically useful figure of merit for comparing circuits designed to reduce the effects of this type of interference. The problem is essentially a statistical one and the results must be expressed in terms of mean values The mathematical theory is developed from the idea of the spectrum of the interference and the response of the selective circuit is expressed in terms of the mean square current and mean power absorbed. The application of the formulas deduced to the case of static interference is discussed and it is shown that deductions of practical value are possible in spite of meagre information regarding the precise nature and origin of static interference. The outstanding deductions of practical value may be summarized as follows: 1. Even with absolutely ideal selective circuits, an irreducible minimum of interference will be absorbed, and this minimum increases linearly with the frequency range necessary for signaling. 2. The wave-filter, when properly designed, approximates quite closely to the ideal selective circuit, and little, if any, improvement over its present form may be expected as regards static interference. 3. As regards static or random interference, it is quite useless to employ extremely nigh selectivity. The gain, as compared with circuits of only moderate selectivity, is very small, and is inevitably accompanied by disadvantages such as sluggishness of response with consequent slowing down of the possible speed of signaling. 4. A formula is developed, which, together with relatively simple experimental data, provides for the accurate determination of the spectrum of static interference. 5. An application of the theory and formulas of the paper to representative circuit arrangements and schemes designed to reduce static interference, shows that they are incapable of reducing, in any substantial degree, the mean interference, as compared with what can be done with simple filters and tuned circuits. The underlying reason lies in the nature of the interference itself."
"THE invaluable agent of our best knowledge of the environing world, and yet itself unknown except by inference; the intermediary between matter and the finest of our senses, and yet itself not material; intangible, and yet able to press, to strike blows, and to recoil; impalpable, and yet the vehicle of the energies that flow to the earth from the sun-light in all times has been a recognized and conspicuous feature of the physical world, a perpetual reminder that the material, the tangible, the palpable substances are not the only real ones. Yet its apparent importance, to our forerunners who knew only the rays to which the eye responds and suspected no others, was as nothing beside its real importance, which was realized very gradually during the nineteenth century, as new families of rays were discovered one after the other with new detecting instruments and with new sources. Radiation is not absent from the places where there is no eye-stimulating light; radiation is omnipresent; there is no region of space enclosed or boundless, vacuous or occupied by matter, which is not pervaded by rays; there is no substance which is not perpetually absorbing rays and giving others out, in a continual interchange of energy, which either is an equilibrium of equal and opposite exchanges, or is striving towards such an equilibrium. Radiation is one of the great general entities of the physical world; if we could still use the word “element,” not to mean one of the eighty or ninety kinds of material atoms, but in a deeper sense and somewhat as the ancients used it, we might describe radiation and matter, or possibly radiation and electricity, as coequal elements. Also the problem of the nature and structure of radiation is of no lesser importance than the problem of the structure and nature of matter; and in fact neither can be treated separately; they are so inextricably intertwined that whoever sets out to expound the present condition of one soon finds himself outlining the other. One cannot write a discourse on the nature of radiation alone nor on the structure of the atom alone, one can but vary the relative emphasis laid upon these two subjects, or rather upon these two aspects of a single subject; and in this article I shall restate many things about the atom which were stated in former articles, but the emphasis will be laid upon light."
"On the basis of Maxwell's laws and the conditions of continuity of electric and magnetic forces at the surfaces of the conductor, the fundamental equations are established for the axial electric force and the tangential magnetic force in a non-magnetic tubular conductor with parallel return. The alternating current resistance per unit length is then derived as the mean dissipation per unit length divided by the mean square current. The general formula is expressed as the product of the alternating current resistance of the conductor with concentric return and a factor, termed the “proximity effect correction factor,” which formulates the effect of the proximity of the parallel return conductor. The auxiliary functions which appear in the general formula are each given by the product of the corresponding function for the case of a solid wire and a factor involving the variable inner boundary of the conductor. In general, the resistance may be calculated from this formula, using tables of Bessel functions. The most important practical cases, however, usually involve only the limiting forms of the Bessel functions. Special formulae of this kind are given for the case of relatively large conductors, with high impressed frequencies, and for thin tubes. A set of curves illustrates the application of the formulae."
"Voice-Frequency Carrier Telegraph System for Cables.1 B. P. Hamilton, H. Nyquist, M. B. Long and W. P. Pheles. Carrier telegraph systems using frequencies above the voice range have been in use for a number of years on open-wire lines. These systems, however, are not suitable for long toll cable operation because cable circuits greatly attenuate currents of high frequencies. The system described in this paper uses frequencies in the voice range and is specially adapted for operation on long four-wire cable circuits, ten or more telegraph circuits being obtainable from one four-wire circuit. The same carrier frequencies are used in both directions and are spaced 170 cycles apart. The carrier currents are supplied at each terminal station by means of a single multi-frequency generator."
"THE year 1824 saw the beginnings of a photographic process for pictorially recording persons and places; to be visually exhibited later, and at a distance. But the persons and other animates in the picture were without movement, so later, when differentiation required it, we called these pictures “stills.”"
"MOST of the owners of theatres and the engineers who design heating and ventilating plants for theatres have largely failed to consider the wide difference in the requirements of a standard theatre and moving picture theatre. There is hardly any more resemblance in their respective requirements than there is in the provisions to be made to ventilate a school house or a church, yet it has been the general practice to apply the same proportions and employ about the same standards of apparatus for both types of theatre buildings."
"THE merit of a motion picture depends absolutely upon its filming. A poor picture, although it may be shown by a skilled projectionist amid beautiful surroundings to the accompaniment of appropriate music, is still a poor picture; a good picture can undoubtedly gain much by an artistic presentation, but no amount of artistry in projection can make a poorly filmed picture any better than it was when it left the studio."
"THE love and appreciation of color is firmly ingrained in the human consciousness. Our oldest written historical records show that color was appreciated and used extensively by the peoples of those early ages. Prehistoric remains dating back centuries before the existence of a written language indicate that the Cro-Magnon men, the first true men (later Paleolithic age, approximately 20,000 B.C.) decorated the walls of the caverns in which they lived with colored paintings. Wells1 states “It greatly aids us to realize their common humanity that these earliest true men could draw. Both races, it would seen, drew astonishingly well. They were by all standards savages, but they were artistic savages. They drew better than any of their successors down to the beginnings of history. They drew and painted on the cliffs and cave walls that they had wrested from the Neanderthal men…‥ They buried their dead, often with ornaments, weapons, and food; they used a lot of colour in the burial, and evidently painted the body. From that one may infer that they painted their bodies during life. Paint was a big fact in their lives. They were inveterate painters; they used black, brown, red, yellow, and white pigments, and the pigments they used endure to this day in the caves of France and Spain. Of all modern races, none have shown so pictorial a disposition; the nearest approach to it has been among the American Indians.” So from the very dawn of civilization color has played an important part in the lives of men. Nor is this to be wondered at since color is an inseparable part of vision. Every visual sensation carries with it its color content, and as stated by Hering, “Our visual world consists essentially of differently presented colors: and objects as seen, that is visual objects, are nothing but colors of different nature and form.” This fact has been recognized by many others, among them Clerk Maxwell who states, “All vision is color vision, for it is only by observing differences in color that we distinguish form.”"
"IN MOTION picture photography the word “static” has a somewhat flexible meaning since it is used as a contraction for both “static electricity” or a “static discharge,” and “static markings” produced on a developed emulsion by an electrical discharge at the surface or within the emulsion previous to development."
"WEFIND in “Investigations on the Theory of the Photographic process,”1 that as early as 1840 the sector wheel, a disk with successively increasing angular apertures, was proposed by Claudet. Hurter and Driffield adopted a sector wheel having nine apertures, ranging from 180 degrees for the largest, to 0.703 degrees for the smallest, each succeeding angular aperture from the center being half that of the preceding one (Fig. A). The disk is caused to revolve before a light source usually at one meter distance. A sensitive photographic emulsion, sufficiently exposed behind such a disk, is impressed with nine different light exposures, the ratio of any adjacent pair being as 1 : 2. The radius of this disk, measuring from the center to the circle including the outermost aperture, is about 12 cm. The usual procedure is to expose to a constant light intensity for different times as occasion demands."
"This paper describes the manufacture of Incandescent Motion Picture Lamps and points out some of the manufacturing variables affecting lamp performances."
"The theory of illumination between two parallel planes was used by Nutting in the development of his reflectometer, but the deviations of the instrument from the simple theory were so large as to destroy its usefulness. It is an instrument of tho greatest simplicity and durability and is ideal where portability is desired. The present reflectometer, which is wedge shaped, is the result of a series of investigations looking to an instrument of good accuracy and at the same time maintaining the extreme simplicity and durability of the older instrument. The theory of illumination by a limited plane is touched on, and some of the details of specular reflection are examined. One form of a wedge reflectometer has been specially designed for direct vision, and has good accuracy for the particular angle of view fixed by the construction of the instrument. The second form of the instrument reads in a manner that is independent of the process of reflection and therefore gives accurate results for all types of diffuse or specular surfaces."
"DURING a luncheon at which several members of our Society were present, reference was made to a patent, that had recently been issued to me, and one of the party remarked that he was unable to understand the reason for the broad claims that had been allowed. In view of the great number of patents that have issued in this branch of photography, he is interested in knowning what lines of development are still open for improvements by inventors. I am also requested to enlighten the members as to the reason for the apparent similarity in many patients that have issued and if differences exist to point them out where possible."
"THE Committee has been fortunate this year in procuring a program of an unusually varied and interesting character, and we are glad to say that there appears to have been greater willingness on the part of those who have been approached to contribute to this convention than on previous occasions. Several very helpful suggestions for papers and authors were-sent in by other members of the Society, but we would like to see this made a much more usual practice. As matters now stand, almost the entire burden of securing a satisfactory program rests upon the shoulders of two or three individuals, and it is manifestly impossible for them to know all the people in the motion picture industry who have material suitable for presentation to our Society. There is, therefore, considerable danger of too frequent harvesting of a small corner of the field. For the same reason, it is also highly desirable that the composition of this Committee should, in our opinion, be changed every year."
"You must be cautioned in one respect. This study is neither technical nor academic—it is much too simple and prosaic for such ambitious designation. But, then, the subject is with the beginnings of intellect, and also, let us say, with a comparatively new form of education. By the very nature of these things, we are led into elementary forms."
"Photographs by infra-red light were first made some years ago by Professor R. W. Wood, of Johns Hopkins University. He noted that the most striking features of these pictures were that blue skies were rendered very dark, whereas green foliage was rendered very light. Photographs by infra-red light with these characteristics have remained more or less of a scientific curiosity every since. In Professor Wood's day the available photographic sensitivity in the infrared was very low and the required exposure very long; furthermore, no one had pointed out a practical use for this effect. More recently Haller has announced an infra-red sensitizer which gives considerably increased speed and this, in combination with the Technicolor film sensitizing technique, has made possible a film semitized in the infra-red which can be produced uniformly and economically in any quantity, large or small, and of sufficient speed to allow of good exposures in motion picture work."
"The requirements of the illuminating equipment for use in studios where color motion pictures are to be made, are somewhat different than in the case of black and white work. The mercury vapor source, used so extensively in motion picture studios where black and white work is done, is practically useless for color work. The spectrum of this source is of the discontinuous or bright line type, and there are broad spectral regions in which no radiation is emitted. The satisfactory rendering of colored objects illuminated by this source is, therefore, quite hopeless."
"A great deal has been written, during the past two or three years, on the subject of machine development, but the discussion and description of the various methods in use have been confined entirely to the machine development of positive film. There seems to be a strong feeling against the development of negative in any kind of machine and rule of thumb methods of developer manipulation are in force generally. There seems to be a lingering doubt about submitting a valuable negative to machine development, yet exhaustive series of experimental test runs have proved that, in both theory and practice, properly controlled mechanical development is the most satisfactory method."
"It may seem presumptious for me to write this plea for a museum, when there are others in the Society who are far better fitted to take up the task, as for instance, Mr. Jenkins, who has made a beginning in this direction by placing in the Smithsonian Institution some of his first apparatus. But as no one else has stepped forward to do so, I have been endeavoring to gather material for the project. I feel as though I were stealing Mr. Jenkins' thunder, but in a measure he has brought this condition about, for it was due to my perusal of his book, Animated Pictures which I purchased in 1897, that I became fired with the ambition to also make Chronophotographic pictures, or in other and more modern language become a “movie” man."
"When one seeks to delve into the history of the motion picture industry during the period we usually refer to as “formative”—the space of time during which the inventions upon which the future success of the industry would be based were in process of discovery—one is immediately confronted with many apparently conflicting claims."
"There have been a number of papers presented before the Society relative to the direct current motion picture are and the use of various types of motor generator sets for the production of such current. In several of these papers the relative advantages of the multiple and series systems are compared. A quite complete description of the multiple are and the principal requirements of its successful design appeared in one of these papers. A brief outline of the design of the series are machine might likewise be of interest."
"Your Committee has been diligently corresponding regarding the various problems assigned to it at the last convention. We also spent one day in New York, discussing the work, and have had a meeting here at Schenectady, the results of which we offer for your consideration."
"The standards in this section apply to transformers designed for use with measuring or control devices."
"These standards apply to all types of disconnecting and horn gap switches whether for indoor or outdoor service."
