"The difficulties encountered in maintaining a sufficiently high degree of line insulation on long communication circuits in the vicinity of Great Salt Lake, Utah, are dealt with in this paper and a review of the study and solution of the problem of controlling the insulation is made. Leading up to this is a description of observations on about 40 mi. of line over a part of the Great Salt Lake Desert known as the mud flats west of the Lake. The description also covers observations on other lines north of the Lake. The object of these studies was to ascertain the variations in the line insulation caused by different weather and temperature conditions in each of these routes. It was necessary also to determine which route would be better for constructing the central transcontinental communication circuits which were about to be built at that time for extending service to provide telephone connection between points on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts."
"Changes in the transmission and distribution system of the Brooklyn Edison Company during the past four years are briefly described and mention is made of the effect of these changes on the system's efficiency. In 1927 a low-voltage, a-c. network will be installed and this will be extended to care for the load growth until it becomes the principal supply system for low-tension energy in Brooklyn. The plan of development is described in detail. The unique features are: First, a suitably designed network unit consisting of a three-phase, 500-ky-a., low-loss transformer with an automatic network circuit breaker mounted in the low-tension pothead of the transformer. Second, the operation of the high-tension feeders without regulators, at 27,000 volts, direct from the generating station. Third, the ultimate plan of interlacing the high-tension feeders to reduce the overload on transformers and to maintain good voltage regulation with one feeder out of service, and to pick up overload in areas of different load characteristics to obtain the advantage of diversity. It is shown that this plan of development insures better service to the customer from every point of view, makes for safer working conditions on the system, results in general system improvement and involves less total investment as well as a considerable reduction in losses and operating costs. The appendixes describe tests made to determine whether arcing and short-circuit faults in the network wilt be self-clearing, the permissible voltage fluctuations on incandescent lamps, and the dissipation of heat from transformer vaults."
"Low-vottage a-c. networks are coming into use as a means of providing a source of power having the dependability of the Edison d-c. network, and at the same time having the efficiency which can be obtained by supplying power from high voltage feeders with transformers located near the point of utilization. As in the case of d-c. networks, it is assumed that all trouble on the network itself will be burned clear without seriously interfering with any of the service. In case of trouble on a primary feeder or in one of its transformers, however, it is necessary to disconnect the feeder from the system. The a-c. network unit has been developed to connect these transformers to the network, and the ``brains'' of this unit, which is the automatic network relay, is described in this paper. This relay not only opens the network breaker whenever there is trouble in any of the high-tension equipment or when the power feeds back into the high-tension feeder but also recloses the breaker when conditions are restored to normal and the feeder is in condition to supply power to the network. The difficulties which were encountered and the relay characteristics necessary to overcome them are explained briefly. The first installation of network units was made in April 1922 on single-phase, three-wire and two-phase, three-wire networks fed by three-phase, 2750-volt primary feeders."
"This paper describes, in an elementary manner, the various relations between distribution system characteristics and the design characteristics of the relays which are used to provide automatic control for the so-called automatic, low-voltage, a-c. network distribution system. In the first part of the paper the general principles of operation of the relays and the limits of magnitude of the various actuating forces are discussed; in the latter part, the relations between distribution system characteristics and the phase angles involved in the operation of the relays are described. It is shown that relays having simple watthour-meter characteristics are notfully applicable to all network systems of the automatic type, but are generally applicable to those having certain limited characteristics. Relay characteristics which would have practically universal application are described and a brief discussion as to the future trend of development is included."
"This paper discusses the required characteristics of relays for use with a low-voltage automatic network circuit breaker. The relay performs the two functions of tripping and reclosing the circuit breaker. The characteristic required for each function is discussed. The major part of the paper is given to a discussion of the reclosing function because of the danger of ``pumping'' caused by cable charging currents and various combinations of induction regulators and transformer connections. Emphasis is placed on the suitability of relays consisting of watthour-meter characteristics, construction and adjustments, involving only a different current coil and the replacement of the recording mechanism by standard relay contacts."
"This paper describes control systems for multiple street-lighting systems and deals particularly with the systems employed in New York City. The paper is introduced by a brief history of the development of street lighting since 1879 when the series system, the first street-lighting method, was established."
"This paper deals primarily with the illumination of modern large classification yards of the hump type in which the traffic is in one direction. Floodlighting is advocated as the most generally satisfactory system, and various arrangements, to meet the different conditions of yard layout, space available, etc., are described."
"This paper deals with the induction lamp, or more generally speaking, the electrodeless electrical discharge. This lamp is a rich source of visible and ultra-violet radiation. The lamp has no electrodes, no conducting filaments and no conducting arc, as ordinarily understood. It operates on the principle of the electrodeless discharge which is produced in a partly exhausted vessel within a rapidly changing electromagntetic field. The discharge consists of visible and invisible radiations. The paper contains a historical introduction, an explanation of the theory of the electrodeless discharge and a description of the results of experiments."
"The cathode ray oscillograph frequency measurement circuit described differs from previous circuits in the use of by-pass condensers and plate leaks which permit connection of the oscillograph to a-c. circuits having large d-c. components and which permit the use of biasing controls for shifting the position of patterns on the screen. Reference oscillators are used in conjunction with the frequency standards. They are of a type chosen. for their high stability. The well-known properties of Lissajous' figures are reviewed briefly and then developed more fully for the cases in which only one term of their ratios may be determined from the oscillograph pattern. Following a general discussion of the accuracy of syntonization, there is discussed a detailed method of calibrating oscillators. The patterns used may be interpreted from one term of their ratio. Interpolation formulas are derived for use in making interpolations on the reference oscillators. The methods of interpolation discussed may be used for intervals up to 0.5 per cent frequency with high degrees of accuracy. The interpolation formulas are extended further in the development of approximation methods by which any unknown frequency may be quickly determined within a few per cent. Several special circuits are described for use infrequency measurements work with the cathode ray oscillograph. The methods and apparatus described are suitable not only for the technical measurements of a development and research nature but are equally adaptable for routine commercial work."
"A shielded, a-c., inductance bridge adapted to the measurement of inductive impedances at frequencies up to 50,000 cycles is described. The bridge comprises a balancing unit and associated standards of inductance and resistance. The balancing unit has resistance ratio arms specially constructed to meet the requirements imnposed by the above frequency range. The reference standard makes use of inductance coils of a new type, their cores being of magnetic instead of non-magnetic material as is usually the case. The use of such cores results in coils that are smaller and hence better adapted, to assembly in a multiple shielded standard. The bridge is completely shielded so as to eliminate, to a high degree, errors due to parasitic capacitance currents. The shielding is also arranged so as to permit the correct measurement of either ``grounded'' or ``balanced-to-ground'' impedances. A series of diagrams is shown for the purpose of indicating the function of each part of the shielding system. Equations expressing the errors resulting from any small residual capacitance unbalances in; the resultant bridge network are given and calculations made of the balances required for the desired degree of measurement precision. Test data are presented illustrating a method of experimentally checking the residual shunt and series balances from which it is concluded that the bridge is capable of comparing two equal inductive impedances of large phase angle with an accuracy at the maximum frequency of 0.02 per cent for inductance and 1.0 per cent for resistance."
"l. Radio broadcasting involves a system of electrical distribution in which dependent relations exist between the transmitting station, the transmitting medium and the receiving station. 2. The attenuation and fading which attend the spreading out of broadcast waves are considered. The attenuation of overland transmission is shown to be, on the whole, very high and to vary over a wide range depending upon the terrain which is traversed. The distance at which the fading of signals occurs is found to be that at which the normal directly transmitted waves have become greatly attenuated and to depend upon the terrain traversed. 3. A field strength contour map is given of the measured distribution of waves broadcast by station WEAF over the New York metropolitan area. A rough correlation is given between measured field strengths and the serviceability of the reception in yielding high grade reproduction. The range of a station as estimated in terms of year-round reliability is found to be relatively small. It becomes clear that the present radio broadcasting art is upon too low a power level and that higher powered stations are required if reliable year-round reception is to be had at distances as short even as 30 to 50 miles from the transmitting station. 4. The question of the preferred location of a transmitting station with respect to a city area is considered. It is shown that an antenna located upon a tall building may radiate poorly at certain wavelengths and well at others."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"What, then, is the mission of the American University? Comparing the American college with the American university one is reminded of Janus, the old Roman deity, the guardian of the entrance to the Roman home. In the early dawn of Roman history this deity had one face only, but as the Roman home grew bigger a second face appeared. The American college and the American university are the two faces of the same guardian angel; one face contemplating reverently the familiar past and the other anxiously exploring the unknown future of this nation. The college perpetuates the national idealism of the past, the university prepares its future expansion. This idealism is the bond between the two, and without this bond they lose their spiritual meaning."
"To an increasing degree, large machines designed for quantity production are being subdivided into their elements, each section being driven by a separate motor as contrasted with former practise of driving these machines, as a whole, from a single unit. With the paper machine, this is called the sectional-electric drive. In this paper, the author has confined himself largely to the history and development of the several types of the sectional drive and the relative merits of each particular type. An attempt has been made to set forth clearly the advantages of the sectional drive and to show that its field of application should increase with a fuller understanding of its advantages as to increased production, improved product and lower operating cost."
"Several mechanical vibration instruments are described and actual problems which these instruments have helped to solve are mentioned. The theory of the seismographic instruments is developed to show the relation between the record or indication and the motion being measured. The limitations in the accuracy of amplitudes recorded or indicated are brought out."
"A research investigation of the ionization phenomena which occur in paper-insulated, high-voltage power cables is being made at the Harvard Engineering School under the auspices of the Impregnated Paper-Insulated Cable Research Committee, The paper presents some of the preliminary results which have been obtained, certain tentative conclusions that are suggested by the data and a description of the method developed for making the measurements. It is a preliminary report and in subsequent papers it is intended to record the progress of the investigation as it proceeds. The paper consists essentially of four parts as follows: (a) A number of curves of power, power factor and capacitance taken on samples of cable at two frequencies and over a wide range of temperature. These curves show well-known characteristics, but in order to exaggerate these effects, cable models were made up to simulate the general conditions in a cable — one model consisting of glass and air only and another of glass, air and paper. Tests of these cable models gave very interesting results, particularly with reference to power factor. They also show rather clearly the baffling action of paper and the effects on power, power factor and capacitance when this baffling action is eliminated. In practically all the curves, the power and power factor begin to increase rapidly at a lower voltage gradient than the capacitance. (b) Discussion of the results obtained and certain tentative conclusions which may be drawn from the results so far obtained and reported herein. 1. Ionization in the dielectric of an air condenser increases its capacitance slightly at first and then rapidly as the electron is separated from the atom. In our measurements we accordingly found that the power and power factor increase rapidly at a lower voltage gradient than the capacitance. 2. Ionization which occurs within air spaces in a dielectric may be called “restricted ionization” in that the current is limited because of the remainder of the dielectric in series. 3. With “restricted ionization,” the voltage across each air space reaches a constant finite value with indefinite increase in the over-all voltage. The resistance of the ionized space, therefore, must be inversely as the current. 4. Consequently when this condition is reached, the ionization loss may be proportional to the charging current. 5. The increase of power factor with increase in voltage gradient with subsequent decrease of power factor is due to the fact that the capacitance of the solid dielectric, which is substantially constant, is in series with ionized air spaces whose resistances are inversely as the current. A simple mathematical analysis of this type of electric circuit shows that power-factor curves should have the form obtained in the measurements. Hence power factor alone is not a criterion of the degree of the completeness of saturation by compound. 6. Ionization by its bombarding action may destroy the baffling action of paper. 7. Ionization may produce potential gradients tangential to the surface of the layers of paper which, in conjunction with the bombarding action, may be the cause of the so-called “tree designs.” (c) Discussion of methods for measurements of this sort and a description of a new type of bridge which was devised for the measurement of dielectric losses at these extremely low power factors with the necessary high degree of accuracy. A large air condenser used as a standard and a vibration galvanometer of unusually high sensitivity and wide range of tuning were designed for use as a detector. The bridge is quickly and accurately balanced by varying a resistance and a mutual inductance. The angle of defect of the standard air condenser, although extremely small, is nevertheless very important in measurements of this character. This angle was measured by a substitution method and corrections made accordingly. (d) Four appendixes discussing respectively (1) method of measuring defect angle of the standard air condenser, (2) mathematical analysis of a condenser of composite dielectric consisting of air and solid homogeneous material, (3) measurement of the high-voltage ratio, and (4) measurements of the capacitance, and other electrical constants of an ionized air space in series with a solid dielectric."
"In 1924 two papers were presented before the A. I.E. E. on Turbo Alternator Ventilation. In one of the papers tests on two models for two methods of ventilation were described, and data from the tests were given. The other paper contained a mathematical treatment for one system of ventilation, which was based upon the data obtained from the tests. It was recognized that the tests were not sufficiently accurate to evaluate the loss coefficients, nor was it possible to obtain data on the distribution of volumes for the intake vents. For that system, (see Fig. 1), it was found that the influence of rotation upon total volumes and their distribution could be neglected; consequently the investigation could be continued on stationary models. Those tests, the methods of determining the losses and the equations derived therefrom are given in this paper. Since the effect of rotation could be neglected, the test could be reduced to a model which represented only one axial row of vent ducts. On this model the stator vent ducts were imitated by square brass tubes with a plaster of paris restriction cast in one end to imitate the vent duct restriction so that the pressure drop obtained for either direction of flow was approximately the same as in a stator vent. A long steel channel or duct represented the section of the air-gap. Some of these brass tubes, representing intake vents, lead from a large sheet metal box to the gap channel. Other tubes, representing discharge vents, lead from the gap channel to the atmosphere. The gap channels could be inter-changed readily to represent various sizes of air-gaps. Any desired number of intake and discharge tubes could be used so as to represent any desired layout of the machine. The volumes in individual intake tubes were measured by reading on a manometer the drop in pressure from the intake chamber to a point a little ways down the tube. For the discharge tubes small impact tubes were employed. Each tube was carefully calibrated before making any other tests; a thermal volume meter was used for calibrating an orifice, and the orifice was used for the lube calibrations. Various difficulties arose, and the means of overcoming them are given. Tests were made with a group of intake vents, and the losses were separated into (1) those in the tubes; (2) those accompanying a right angle turn; (3) those due to a stream of one velocity impinging upon a stream of another velocity; (4) those due to sudden increase in velocity; (5) those due to surface frictions. Similar tests on the discharge side showed that the losses there could be separated into (1) those in the tubes; (2) those accompanying a right angle turn; (3) those due to sudden decrease in velocity; (4) those due to surface friction. The losses were put, for the most part, into comparatively simple expressions. They were then combined in order to obtain final solutions. There was no difficulty on the intake side in obtaining a differential equation which admitted of ready integration. On the discharge side, however, it was necessary to use approximations. With the aid of the final equations the total volumes and their distribution can be calculated for a given pressure drop. One difficulty is that the equations include trigonometric and hyperbolic functions of quantities involving the distance between the point where the gap velocity is maximum to the points where the gap velocity is zero. The latter point, called the “balance point” is not known, and a simultaneous solution of the transcendental equations needed for its determination, is impossible. Suggestions for a direct simple approximate solution are given, which may be followed by trial and error methods. In most of the applications, only one or two trials were required. The equations were checked for accuracy by comparison with tests made on the tubes, on the turbo model of 1922 and 1923, and with those on an actual machine. The agreement in total volumes was very close, and is considered to be quite good for distribution also."
"An analysis of the phenomena of hysteresis is presented in the paper which introduces the conception of a reactive component and a dissipative component of the counteracting force, which appears when magnetizeable material is subjected to a magnetizing force. Using this conception, equations and curves are developed for the hysteresis curve, for the various components and for the hysteresis loss. The loss is shown to depend directly on the dissipative component."
"The maximum load on a proposed transmission system must be within the steady-state power limit of the system for stability of operation. Two methods of calculating steady state stability are given in detail and illustrated by examples. (1) The given transmission system is replaced by a simple equivalent system, then the steady-state power limit of this equivalent system is determined graphically. (2) By means of a circle diagram the system is tested for stability with the maximum proposed load on the system. All formulas from published references necessary for the calculations are included and all calculations are given in full so that similar studies can readily be made by an engineer who has not previously made a study of the subject of stability."
"Stability may be defined as the capacity of a power system to remain in equilibrium under steady load conditions, and its ability to regain a state of equilibrium after a disturbance has taken place. The lack of stability first manifested itself in the cases of overloaded machines and high impedance tie lines. The transmission of large blocks of power over long distances has presented the problem in a new form. Attention was directed to this problem in a group of papers before the Institute at the Midwinter Convention of 1924. These papers gave a general discussion of the stability problem and pointed out the necessity of considering the limitations imposed not only by the line alone but by the transformers, rotating machines and load. Extensive and pertinent discussions followed which emphasized the importance of the limitations imposed on power transmission by stability conditions. The papers and discussions at the 1924 Midwinter Convention established a method for the determination of power limits under steady load conditions assuming fixed excitation. The limit so determined is due to the inherent characteristics of machines and does not take into account the possibility of changes in excitation due to the action of voltage regulators. The possibility of exceeding the “inherent stability limits” by the operation of the voltage regulators and exciters was pointed out. This condition of “artificial stability” was not at that time believed to be attainable. It was recognized that under the actual operating conditions on a transmission system instability would occur because of short circuits or other disturbances at a point considerably below the maximum static limit. Subsequently extensive studies of stability conditions were made to determine the feasibility and economics of a number of large transmission projects. These studies emphasized the necessity of determining the maximum permissible load under the most severe operating conditions which obviously arise at the time of system disturbances, such as switching operations or flashovers with the attendant switching. Transmission stability has been the subject of a number of articles in the technical press and of papers before the Institute, the principal ones of which are listed in the bibliography. C. L. Fortescue's paper before the Seattle Convention in September 1925 serves as an introduction to the present paper, presenting in a qualitative manner results of recent investigations whereas this paper presents methods for the quantitative determination of system oscillations. During the early part of 1925 extensive stability tests including switching operations and single phase faults to ground were conducted on the system of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company. These tests will be described in a companion paper by Roy Wilkins. The present paper first deals with the principal elements entering into the stability problem, such as the action of generators and exciters during disturbances, effect of dissymmetry produced by single-phase short circuits, simplification of the load end network and methods for combining these various factors in the determination of the electromechanical oscillations of the system following major disturbances. Results of calculations by these methods are compared with the results of tests on the system of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company. The paper concludes with a discussion of various methods of improving stability."
"Heaviside's proof of his celebrated Expansion Theorem, found scattered in his “Electrical Papers,” is reconstructed. It is based upon his so-called “conjugate theorem” also discovered independently by Routh, which establishes a relation between any two normal modes of oscillation of a dynamical system. Heaviside's argument applies to systems having finite number of degrees of freedom and no repeated or null roots of the determinantal equation of the system. The relation between Heaviside's, Carson's and Wagner's proofs is also pointed out."
"A society for the improvement of illumination (Society pour le Perfectionnement de l'Eclairage) has been organized in France by some of the leading central stations, electrical manufacturers, contractors, dealers, and others interested in the development of the electrical industry. It has its headquarters in Paris. The object of the organization is clearly set forth in a circular which, freely translated, reads as follows:"
"Intensities of illumination are generally far from adequate for perfect or “normal” eyes. To increase the intensity to the high level most suitable and economically desirable for workers with normal vision is such a formidable task that little thought has been given to that necessary for the best efficiency of workers whose vision is subnormal. Apparently it has been assumed that subnormal eyes are in an insignificant minority. However, the truth seems to be that the majority of workers' eyes are not perfect. Evidence to this effect has been accumulating of late through systematic eye examination. Furthermore, it has been found that, for seeing equally well, if possible at all with defective eyes requires a greater intensity of illumination than for normal eyes. Correcting refractive errors by means of glasses is, to some extent, equivalent to increasing the intensity of illumination; but there is enough evidence to indicate that average eyes, even if corrected by means of glasses, require more light than normal eyes to attain equal facility in seeing."
"From every point of view the Regional Meeting held in Cleveland, March 18–19, was an outstanding success. An attendance of 430, intense interest in the technical papers and in the addresses by prominent men, and enjoyment of the other features distinguished this meeting. The members of the convention committee deserve the greatest praise for their efforts in planning and managing the affair."
"A two-day Regional Meeting will be held by the Great Lakes District of the Institute in Madison, Wisconsin, on May 6 and 7, with headquarters at the Hotel Loraine. An interesting program has been arranged featuring the following topics:"
"High-grade technical sessions and some unusual entertainment features mark the program of the Regional Meeting which will be held at Niagara Falls, N. Y., May 26–28, under the direction of the Northeastern District of the Institute. The new Niagara Hotel will be headquarters for the meeting."
"On the evening of the first day of the coming plenary session of the International Electrotechnical Commission which is to be held in New York, April 13th to 22nd, a general meeting is scheduled for the Auditorium, Engineering Societies Bldg., 33 West 39th St., New York, which should prove of great interest to all engineers. The program for the evening calls for the opening of the meeting by Dr. CO. Mailloux, Honorary President of the I. E. C. He will then introduce Dr. Clayton H. Sharp, President of the United States Committee. Dr. Sharp will turn the meeting over to John W. Lieb, Chairman of the Reception Committee who will call upon Professor Elihu Thomson to make the address of welcome to the foreign delegates. There will be a brief response by Colonel R. E. Crompton, C. B., Honorary Secretary of the Commission. Brief address will be given by representatives of France, Poland, Germany, Scandinavia and Japan. The principal address of the evening will be made by Guido Semenza of Milan, Italy, President of the International Electrotechnical Commission on “The Accomplishments and Aims of the International Electrotechnical Commission.”"
"The members of the New York Section of the A. I. E. E. and the New York Electrical Society are to have the wonderful opportunity of again listening to an address by Dr. R. A. Millikan, Director, Norman Bridge Laboratory, California Institute of Technology. Dr. Millikan will desoribe his recent work in the detection of “High-Frequency Cosmic Rays,” carried on at Lake Muir at the summit of Mt. Whitney and Arrowhead Lake in the San Bernardino mountains, also on Pike's Peak in which he determined that these rays, at first called “penetrating radiation” of the atmosphere, come definitely from above. The shortest wave length determined corresponds to a frequency 10,000,000 times higher than that of visible light and that the computed frequencies correspond closely to the energy involved in the simple capture of an electron by a positive nucleus."
"The New York Section will hold its first Student Convention on Friday, April 23, 1926. The plans for this convention have been under way for some time, through conferences of N. Y. Section officers and a committee representing the student body of the eight colleges within the New York Section territory, as follows: College City of New York, Columbia, Cooper Union, New York University, Newark College of Engineering, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Rutgers University and Stevens Institute of Technology."
"The House Committee on Coinage, Weights and Measures opened hearings in Washington, March 4th, on a bill which proposes to make the metric system effective in this country after January 1935. While opposition as well as approval of the bill was expressed by representative men, it is generally contended that the ultimate good to be derived from the adoption of a universal unit of measure is obvious, in view of which the earlier it is put into effect the sooner will the whole situation be simplified. As Major Fred J. Miller, past-president of the A. S. M. E. expressed it, “A gram of prevention is worth a kilogram of cure.” Some of those opposing the bill were Luther D. Burlingame, chairman of the A. S. M. E. Committee on Standardization and Unification of Screw Threads, other representatives of the A. S. M. E. on the National Screw Threads Commission and C. C. Stutz, Secretary of the Institute of Weights and Measures, while the passage of the bill was supported by S. W. Stratton, Gano Dunn, Thomas A. Edison, General Pershing, Samuel Vauclain, and others of representative prominence."
"Frederick W. Walker has closed his Chicago office, and, effective March 1st, 1926, has been appointed vice-president of the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, Milwaukee, Wis."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"The year has been one of steady operation, unmarked by unusual occurrences. The number of users of the Library was practically the same as in 1924, amounting to about 70% of the membership of the Founder Societies."
"Prepared by the Relay Subcommittee, Electrical Apparatus Committee, and Technical National Section of the National Electric Light Association in collaboration with the Relay Subcommittee and Protective Devices Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, a volume to be known as the Relay Handbook is now available through the offices of the National Electric Light Association, Engineering Societies Building, New York."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Service of Science reminds us first of the visible service of science, which one can see in every nook and corner of our daily life. But there is an invisible service of science which has a purely intellectual, esthetic, and spiritual value. This is the service to which I wish to call attention. In this connection it is well to point out at this very outset that during the last three hundred years, since the pilgrim fathers landed at Plymouth rock, science has revealed three distinct physical realities. The first physical reality was revealed through the science of matter in motion; the second, through the science of electricity in motion; and the third, through the science of energy in motion. Each one of these contributes a service which is not visible in every nook and corner of our daily life; but it has an intellectual as well as an esthetic and spiritual value."
"Dugald C. Jackson, the twenty-third president of the A. I. E. E., was born at Kennett Square, Pa., February 13, 1865. He was graduated from Pennsylvania State College in 1885 with the degree of B. S., receiving the degree of C. E. from the same college in the year 1888. Following graduation, Mr. Jackson devoted two years to post graduate work in electrical engineering at Cornell University, serving as instructor in physics in 1887."
"This paper describes a printing telegraph cipher system developed during the World War for the use of the Signal Corps, U. S. Army. This system is so designed that the messages are in secret form from the time they leave the sender until they are deciphered automatically at the office of the addressee. If copied while en route, the messages cannot be deciphered by an enemy, even though he has full knowledge of the methods and apparatus used. The operation of the equipment is described, as well as the method of using it for sending messages by wire, mail or radio. The paper also discusses the practical impossibility of preventing the copying of messages, as by wire tapping, and the relative advantages of various codes and ciphers as regards speed, accuracy and the secrecy of their messages."
"A general survey and description of the various types of supervisory systems for control and indication of remotely located electrical apparatus is given in the paper, the author first of all comparing the better known remote-control system with the supervisory system in general practise today. Description is given of the selector, distributor, audible, code-visual, synchronous-relay-visual and the carrier-current systems, the principles and features of each being discussed. The subject of telemetering is also included, together with an expression of the author's ideas of future possibilities for each of the systems above enumerated."
"The flux density, H, at the center of a circular circuit of one turn is known accurately to be 2 π i/r; in fact, it has been made the quantitative connecting link between current and magnetism and the basis of the ampere. But the H in any other part of the circle is very difficult to calculate as it involves elliptical integrals, and to integrate these for getting the total flux is almost hopelessly complicated and then at best only approximate."
"The paper contains equations applicable to machines cooled by forced air convection currents. It is to be hoped that the A. I. E. E. Standards Committee will find some helpful suggestions in the paper. Ignoring differences in ambient temperature, the effect of altitude may be considered from two standpoints: (a) The change in temperature rise, the rating remaining the same; or (b) the change in rating, the temperature rise at a given altitude equaling that at sea-level. The applications of both are considered, and equations are solved in both ways. The difference in ambient temperature at sea-level and at altitude is also taken into consideration in other equations. The present A. I. E. E. rule is known to be faulty, applies only on the basis of temperature change, and starts at 1000 meters. These and other objections are believed to be met in this paper. Several of the equations are plotted in families of curves, which should be of assistance to the reader. By assuming other values for some of the factors, other similar curves can be drawn. In Appendix I, the derivations of equations are given. Appendixes II and III cover discussions of two of the factors used in the equations. In Appendix IV, some cases other than a slotted core are discussed. A number of assumptions were made in the derivations of the equations: (1) The temperature coefficient of resistance was neglected. (2) The heat that flows transversely through the insulating wall is the same percentage of the heat generated in the copper at altitude as at sea-level. The equations are intended to apply to a slotted core, although they may be used for other parts of an electrical machine. Some examples are given in Appendix IV."
"A star-connected circuit consisting of two voltmeters and one variable condenser has certain properties upon which a wave-shape factor may be based. When the voltmeter resistances are equal to each other and equal to the condenser reactance, the ratio of the voltmeter readings will always be ($2 + \\sqrt 3$) for an alternator producing sine waves and always less than ($2 + \\sqrt 3$) for all other wave shapes. From any measured ratio of voltmeter readings, the purity of the voltage wave may be determined; furthermore, the maximum possible percentage of any single harmonic present in the wave can be immediately obtained (See Table III). For the experimental application of this method a wave shape meter is proposed for practical application which consists essentially of two voltmeters and a variable condenser. Such a meter has advantages over the method of analysis based on oscillograms, namely: (1) cost, (2) portability, (3) ease of experimental procedure and (4) rapidity of arriving at results. This method of attack is not intended to supplant the oscillograph but rather to supplement it. The method has been checked with the aid of a harmonic alternator and has been applied to the local power system and to various alternators available in the Electrical Engineering laboratories of the Pennsylvania State College."
"In a previous paper, tests were described which proved conclusively that if conducting material were lodged between the turns of a reactor having bare conductor, the reactor would flashover at the instant a failure occurred on the circuit in which the reactor was placed. In this paper, tests are described which were made during the development of a proper insulation for the conductor of reactors. Short Circuit Tests. Reactors tested consisted of one reactor with enameled conductor and two reactors with asbestos insulated conductor; one having a thin covering of asbestos; the other a thicker covering. The reactor with enameled conductor flashed over during the first short circuit test. That with a thin covering of asbestos stood one short circuit and arced over in the second short circuit. The reactor with the thick covering stood many short circuit tests without any failure or sign of distress. These tests established the fact that thin insulation on the conductor will not prevent such failures, even though it has sufficient dielectric strength to withstand the voltages placed across it for the reason that the magnetic force exerted on iron and steel objects will cause them to break through thin insulation. On the other hand, thick insulation will adequately protect the reactor from failure due to foreign substances. Thermal Tests. Thermal tests on the asbestos insulation established the following facts: First: That this insulation does not smoke excessively at temperatures below 350 deg. cent. Second: That it does not burn even at temperatures of melting copper. Third: That its insulation and mechanical strength is not appreciably affected when heated rapidly as high as 350 deg. cent. Thermal Capacity. The thermal capacity of the conductor is affected by the insulation, as follows: First: Under the effects of extremely high short circuit currents for a very brief interval, the thermal capacity is not affected by the asbestos. Second: With a moderate short-circuit current for a longer length of time, the thermal capacity of the insulated conductor is increased due to the storage of heat in the insulation. Third: During normal operation, at rated current, the temperature rise of conductor is increased due to the drop in temperature in the insulation. Costs. The asbestos insulation increases the cost of the reactor directly by the addition of the cost of the insulation itself and indirectly by making it necessary occasionally to increase the size of the conductor. However, this increase in cost is not a large percentage of the total cost of the reactor."
"During the past few years there has been much discussion regarding the behavior of long transmission lines under transient conditions, such as flashovers, short circuits, arcs and grounds which would tend to make them unstable, but unfortunately this discussion has been largely theoretical due to the absence of any actual operating data upon which to base assumptions. It has only been recently that an opportunity has been afforded to make field tests on one of the two existing 220-kv. systems and the results of such a series of tests made on the system of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company are presented in the paper. This is the first instance where tests of this nature have been attempted and the lack of proper testing equipment proved a serious handicap. It was necessary to develop a special high-speed oscillograph wattmeter, a high-speed oscillograph filmholder and a pilot generator. Moreover the technique of testing was developed so that it was possible to secure oscillographic records 200 mi. apart by telephone signal. The tests established the following important facts: 1. System stability as a problem is inextricably entangled with operating economics, and cannot be handled solely as a problem in design, except for very simple cases. 2. For any adequate conclusions to be reached much more fundamental data is necessary. 3. Requisite equipment for obtaining such data is not now available. 4. Studies of models and artificial transmission lines are not adequate because too little is known about the relative importance of the several factors to allow intelligent duplication. 5. Proper relay equipment and action is vital. 6. Oil-switch operation is an important factor. 7. Only a certain part of the stored energy of a system is available in any given case of trouble. 8. Operating distribution of excitation current is one of the major problems."
"I wish to take vigorous exception to Mr. Boyajian's statement in his closing discussion1 on his paper, Resolution of Transformer Reactances, etc., that I “seem to be in agreement with the speaker on the main points of the paper.” I had no such intention, and Mr. Boyajian has evidently misunderstood my discussion. In fact my position on this question of leakage reactance is entirely opposed to that set forth by Mr. Boyajian. Now it seems to me that he has fallen into error on account of the fact that the same “equivalent” circuit may be used to represent the behavior of a two-winding transformer, in which the exciting component of current is not neglected; or of a threewinding transformer, in which the exciting component of current is neglected. Since certain relations can be shown to exist in the latter case he argues that the same relations hold true in the former. This logic is entirely erroneous. As a matter of fact the conflicting views that have been expressed are occasioned by different conceptions of what leakage reactance really is. It seems to me that it would be very unfortunate if we were forced to use one value of leakage reactance when considering one component of current and a different value when considering another component; especially so, since the various components are, in reality, nothing but figments of the imagination. This, however, is Mr. Boyajian's conception for he says, “The burden of my paper was to show that the leakage reactance which a winding offers to exciting current is different from that which it offers to a load current, similar, etc.”"
"In the application of squirrel-cage induction motors to such severe service as frequent start and stop or frequent plugging operation, it is desirable to know how much loss the motor will be required to dissipate. Plugging being understood as changing the motor from any speed in one direction to any speed in the opposite direction, by reversing the rotation of the field only. The subject of starting loss is also of interest from the control standpoint; such as the application of auto-transformers for starting purposes; or where an external resistance is inserted in the primary as is done in the control of elevator motors. Consideration is given, to the part that the primary and secondary resistance and the total reactance play in the determination and the manipulation of the starting losses; and, as it is true that in many applications the time spent in accelerating the rotor from rest is useless from the production standpoint, consideration is given to the value of secondary resistance that will give minimum starting time for a given field strength. This involves a method for the determination of the time taken to attain a given speed in general. There are many cases where a motor has already been designed and tested, and is about to be applied on a given job where the cycle of operation is known and includes either starting and stopping or plugging. In such an event, instead of working with the various test values to get the constants of the machine, it is much more convenient and accurate to work from such values as starting torque, maximum torque, slip at full load, locked current and primary resistance. It will be shown how the proceeding short-cut method can for most cases be made more simple without sacrificing the accuracy of the result to any appreciable extent. When a motor is plugged the problem is complicated by the difficulty that eddy currents flow in the rotor which give a slight increased effect to the torque at negative speeds. Although this paper does not show how to predetermine its amount, it does show how to handle the losses and the time of reversal, if the test speed-torque values are known or can be estimated from another machine."
"It is the purpose of this paper to show how analysis by the cross-field theory may be used to obtain accurate, purely numerical methods of calculating performance characteristics of alternating-current machines. Methods of calculation are derived and sample calculations are given for the single-phase induction motor and the repulsion motor."
"The present paper treats of the following matters: 1. Simplification of the physical formula for magnetic attraction 2. Definition of magnetic reluctance when the magnetic field is bounded by non-equipotential surfaces 3. Calculation of the virtual variation in magnetic reluctance due to any displacement of the limiting surfaces 4. Demonstration of the theorem that the magnetic attraction between two ferromagnetic bodies depends only upon their common magnetic fluxes φ and upon the virtual gradient of its air-reluctances Ro, and that the formula $F_{l}={\\phi^2\\over 8\\pi} {\\lambda R_{o}\\over \\lambda_{l}}$ which gives the attraction along any given direction l is as general and as exact as the formulas of physics 5. Direct deduction of magnetic attraction from the lines of magnetic flux depicted by a magnetic figure without resorting to the components of the magnetic field. The method used is developed by the application of the well-known principles of the potential energy function to the magnetic flux in the air-gap. Paths for the magnetic flux are established across the air-gap between the two ferromagnetic surfaces bounding the air-gap, by decomposing the magnetic flux into elemental tubes of magnetic force, the envelopes of which enclose spaces in which the flux is constant. The element of boundary-surface intersected by each elemental tube at the two boundary-surfaces encloses an equal number lines of magnetic flux, irrespective of the magnetic density at these points. By replacing the element of boundary-surface by its geometrical projection on a plane normal to the axis of the elemental tube, an equivalent equipotential surface is obtained at each end of the elemental tube. Any non-equipotential surface bounding an air-gap can thus be replaced by an equivalent equipotential surface composed of an aggregation of elemental equipotential surfaces which produce denticulations in the contour of the boundary-surface. It becomes possible, in this way, to evaluate magnetic reluctance and magnetic attraction by reference to summations of elemental magnetic tubes and without the necessity of considering directly the magnetic density of the magnetic field at any point. The potential of each elemental tube of magnetic force depends only upon the potentials at its ends, at the boundary-surfaces, it being entirely independent of the path followed by the tube in traversing the air-gap."
"H. F. Harvey, Jr.: About the only comment which I have to offer is that sufficient emphasis has not been laid on the maneuvering feature. With direct control from each pilot house it is very evident that the one in charge can maneuver the boat more easily than by means of the ordinary signals to the engine room."
"H. S. Phelps: Messrs. Trueblood and Cone have very ably and clearly pointed out the importance of the type of powerdistribution system in the matter of inductive coordination. This importance is recognized, and as the problem is better understood, more and more attention is being given it. It seems to me, however, that they have not placed sufficient stress upon another equally important feature-namely, the characteristics of the telephone system."
"C. E. Carey: I wish to discuss one or two details in Mr. Blake's paper. He mentions primarily the single-pole protective unit. He goes into detail and attempts to establish the justification of the multiplicity of parts. However, the question of single-phase or single-pole units cannot be separated from the whole network. Personally, I believe that the multiple unit is the real solution. We have seen that there are certain state laws requiring that we open the entire circuit, rather than allow an unbalance on the networks and produce inductive interference. It is much better, I believe, to clear the entire trouble as quickly as possible rather than take out one phase at a time. The three-pole unit will not occupy as much space in the manhole as three single-pole units. The automatic a-c. network protector is a device which does everything you can expect it to do. It is designed to go into the standard 35-in. manhole cover. The covers of the units are of aluminum, are light and can be handled by one man. Furthermore, if inspection is to be made of these devices the time consumed will be less with three-pole units than with three single-pole units."
"C. A. Heinze: Mr. Crawford assumes as an ultimate load density in his residential areas approximately 6250 kw. per sq. mi. He has used some figures that apply apparently to Seattle, which possibly may not apply to other cities. The number of houses per block, and the number of blocks per square mile-those are local conditions. The ratio of apartment houses and flats to single residences determines the load density for residential consumers. Studies of the conditions as they exist in Los Angeles show that it is reasonable to expect future load densities of 2500 kw. per sq. mi. for single residences, 6000 kw. per sq. mi. for flats and 19,000 kw. per sq. mi. for apartment houses. The actual load density in any square mile will be determined by the ratio between the different classes."
"F. K. Kirsten: I wish to congratulate Mr. Smith on his courage in using the catenary equations for the analysis of spans supported from points at unequal elevations, and I would also like to make some supplementary comments."
"R. E. Cunningham: I wish to refer to the described methods of voltage regulation in the commercial district at Fresno using regulated circuits, tied in with circuits feeding directly from the bus. It would seen that this would cause considerable circulating current."
"Plans are practically completed for the Regional Meeting which will be held in Cleveland on March' 18–19 with headquarters at the Hotel Cleveland. This will be a two-day meeting and papers will be devoted to the subjects of sectionalized electric drive and electric refrigeration. There will be addresses by prominent men, a dinner, a meeting of Branch Counsellors of the Second District and inspection trips."
"Plans are under way for a Northeastern District A. I. E. E. Student Convention to be held in Cambridge, Mass., in the Spring. Arrangements are being made by a student committee headed by the Chairman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Branch acting with the advice and assistance of the Executive Committee of the Boston Section."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Aannual Meeting, Washington, DC, USA, January 13-15, 1926 and other announcements of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The John Fritz medal, established in 1902 in honor of John Fritz, one of the great pioneers in the iron and steel industry to be awarded annually for notable scientific and industrial achievement-the highest honor bestowed by the engineering profession of this country was on January 15, awarded by the John Fritz Medal Board to Edward Dean Adams, for achievement as “an Engineer, Financier, Scientist, whose vision, courage and industry made possible the birth at Niagara Falls of hydroelectric power.” The presentation will be made at a later date."
"A meeting of great interest in these days of acute transportation problems is to be held jointly by the four Founder Societies, the A. S. C. E., A. I. M. E., A. S. M. E. and A. I. E. E. on Thursday, February 18, 1926, 8 p. m., Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y. The subject “The Relation of the Diesel-Electric Locomotive to Electrification” will be developed by three speakers: C. H. Stein, General Manager, Central Railroad of New Jersey; Hart Cooke, Mcintosh and Seymour Company; and N. W. Storer, Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: S3 West 39th St., New York, N. Y. W. V. Brown, Manager. 63 West Jackson Bwde., Room 1736, Chicago, III., A. K. Krauser, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 16th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of S10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. Replies To Announcements. Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Idealism found its clearest expression in the men who immediately after the Civil War had inaugurated a new epoch in American history, the epoch of the intellectual renaissance in America. It was the epoch of the new movement in the direction of higher endeavor in all intellectual, aesthetic and spiritual activities of our national soul. Joseph Henry, Barnard, White, Draper, Eliot, Lowell and many other intellectual leaders led the movement, but it took its first concrete form in Baltimore, when Johns Hopkins University was formally opened fifty years ago."
"For many years the need for a higher test voltage between turns of individual coils or complete windings has been recognized. To obtain this higher test voltage, high frequency has been introduced. The high frequency used for this test is produced by damped oscillating discharge from a condenser and applied directly to the leads of the coil or winding. Practically any desired voltage can be applied to a coil or winding provided a sufficiently high frequency is used. As a shop method for checking defects in material, or poor workmanship, the high-frequency test method has been found very effective in those classes of windings so far tried. The method used for detecting short circuits on the principle of the radio receiving set are described."
"A study of the practical considerations involved in assigning kilowatt ratings to radiant heating elements in furnace chambers. Constants for radiation and absorption are given. Consideration is given to shape and spacing of elements with respect to shielding due to adjacent elements. A method of determining the equivalent unshielded element is worked out to provide a basis for comparing dissimilar shapes of heaters."
"At the A. I. E. E. Spring Convention, Pittsburg, April 24–26, 1923, a paper was presented by the authors on the operation of a Petersen Earth Coil installed by the Alabama Power Company on its Lock 12-Vida 44,000-volt system. That paper reported an excellent performance record for the coil, although several unaccounted for bus insulator flashovers occurred at Lock 12, indicating that further investigations on the action of the coil were necessary. This paper presents eleven months' additional operating experience with the Earth Coil, which shows that over-voltage disturbances can be eliminated by doing all line switching operations with the Petersen Coil out of service; that is, with the system neutral solidly grounded. It is believed that the same results can also be obtained by under-tuning the coil. The Lock 12 Coil is no longer in service, as the system has outgrown the need of such equipment; additional power sources have been added to the system and reliable service can be maintained without the use of flashover suppressing devices. It appears that the application of Petersen Earth Coils is limited to comparatively low voltage lines (66,000 volts and less) of moderate length with a single source of power supply. In such an application, the use of a Petersen Coil between system neutral and ground has the advantage over grounded neutral operation by reducing line outages due to flashovers and over isolated neutral operation by eliminating arcing grounds."
"In connection with the efforts that are now being made to trace the relation between better lighting and higher efficiency of work, it is natural that experimenters should try to base their conclusions on the results achieved by daylight."
"A general equation is developed for the mechanical force exerted by a system of n electric circuits, upon any part of that system. The electric circuits are assumed to contain resistances, and the reluctance of the several magnetic circuits is assumed to be a function of both the currents and the relative positions of the circuits. The equation is therefore applicable to circuits involving saturated iron. Special cases of a single circuit and of n circuits are treated, in which a method of graphical solution is given. Also an approximation is made, which results in fairly simple analytical expressions for the force in the case of circuits involving saturated iron. The results are preliminary to an investigation of the forces existing in synchronous machines under the condition of short circuit, which subject will be treated in a forthcoming paper."
"Most solid dielectrics are imperfect in the sense that when a constant d-c. voltage is suddenly applied, a displacement of electricity first takes place almost instantly to a certain value, and then continues to increase asymptotically towards an ultimate magnitude. Accordingly, an initial electric charge and a greater final charge may be distinguished, with the corresponding values of initial and final permittivities. The purpose of the present investigation is to establish certain general properties of the function which expresses the increase in the initial electric displacement with the time. The initial and the final leakage conductivities of the material are also taken into consideration. An assumption is made that the law of relaxation of electric displacement in the individual particles of the dielectric is a simple exponential function of time, but that the exponent varies from particle to particle. In some “non-viscous” particles the final displacement takes place instantly, in some others it occurs infinitely slowly, while for a great majority of the particles the relaxation proceeds at various finite rates. A “distribution function” for the numbers of different particles is introduced and the general conditions which this function must satisfy are established. The results are then applied to a particular form of distribution function which has a large enough number of parameters for representing experimental data on a given dielectric with sufficient accuracy. Integrations are carried out for the cases of direct and sinusoidal applied voltages. With direct voltage, expressions are deduced for the permittivity and conductivity as functions of time. Since experimental curves of these two quantities can be obtained, a comparison with the theoretical formulas will permit a determination of the numerical values of the parameters in the assumed distribution function. With alternating voltages, the apparent permittivity and the apparent conductivity are expressed as functions of the frequency. Since experimental values of these quantities may be computed from measurements of capacitance and dielectric loss, another possibility is thus afforded for checking an assumed distribution function. The ultimate aim of the theory (as now developed and as may be improved in the future) is to make it possible to correlate and to mutually check a vast amount of experimental data on absorption and on dielectric loss, and to enable one to predict these quantities within the range of voltages and frequencies for which no test figures are available."
"The paper deals with an analysis of the general requirements of recording and reproducing sound, with the nature of the inherent limitations where mechanical records are used, and a detailed description of a solution involving, first, the use of electrical equipment for the purposes of recording and, second, the use of mechanical equipment based on electric transmission methods for reproducing. Probably the most useful feature of the paper is the complete description of the application of electrical transmission theory to mechanical transmission systems. A detailed analysis is made of the analogies between the electrical and the mechanical systems."
"A review of the art of loading telephone circuits as practised in the United States. The introductory section briefly reviews the theory of coil loading, and summarizes the principle characteristics of the first commercial standard loading coils and loading systems, thereby serving as a background for the description of the various improvements of outstanding importance which have been made in the loading coils and loading systems during the past fifteen years to meet the new or changing requirements in the rapidly advancing communication art. These major improvements are described in detail under the appropriate headings (1) Phantom Group Loading, (2) Loading for Repeatered Circuits, (3) Incidental Cables in Open-Wire Lines, (4) Cross-talk, (5) Telegraphy over Loaded Telephone Circuits, (6) Loading for Exchange Area Cables, and (7) Submarine Cables. The discussion of these various developments sets forth the relations between the loading features and the associated phases of telephone development, such as the cables, repeaters, telegraph working, and carrier telephone and telegraph systems. The concluding part of the paper gives some general statistics regarding the extent of the commercial application of loading in the United States, and a brief statement indicative of the large economic importance of loading to the telephone using public."
"One of the factors which is sometimes responsible for very considerable losses in rotating machines is that of eddy-current losses in the copper conductors resulting from slot leakage flux produced by the main flux. These losses occur at no-load as well as under load and should not be confused with the copper losses resulting from the slot leakage flux produced by the load current. These no-load copper losses occur in salient pole machines, both d-c. and a-c., and in induction motors. This paper is an attempt to remove the calculation of no-load copper eddy-losses from the field of empiricism where it has previously been and to place it on a firm theoretical foundation. Test results are presented which show that the theoretical formulas which have been developed are correct. Some of the consequences of this analysis are rather unexpected where the frequencies are sufficiently high to produce large skin effect. For instance, laminating the copper may produce increased or decreased losses, depending upon the conditions."
"The ever increasing speeds of paper making machines has made necessary the replacement of the inadequate mechanical drive with electrical sectional drive, and the perfection acquired in modern electrical sectional paper machine drive has made possible unlimited paper speed in so far as the drive and control is concerned. Not only is electrical sectional drive necessary for high speed machines but it is highly economical for even the slowest speed machines on account of the saving in power over mechanical drive, the great saving in maintenance, and the greater precision with which the section speeds can be maintained thereby greatly reducing the number of paper breaks and increasing production. This paper outlines the several trends of development in an historical sketch of progress in the art up to the present time, devoting special attention to a unique system of direct current drive in which the section driving motors through a differential electrical field control means, cause the several section driving motors to operate in synchronous relation at any desired relative speed values, which speed relations are at the same time adjustable at the will of the operator."
"G. E. Luke: In determining the probable temperature rise of any electric machine, we may first start with the calculation of the volume of fluid necessary to be circulated through the machine in a given time."
"W. F. Dawson: The author is to be particularly congratulated on the production of a very fine machine. It has shown low heating, many novel and ingenious ideas, good mechanical engineering, and, I should say, very good efficiency. But there is one feature of the design that is quite startling to us in the United States. I know I speak for myself and for my immediate colleagues although I do not know that I speak for other manufacturers in this country."
"The introduction of the corrugated automobile headlight bulb is an important step in the more exact and complete control of the beams from headlights toward which various refinements in the manufacture of the several elements of the equipment are contributing."
"Assuming no decrease in the purchasing power of money, as much light can be purchased today for one or two cents as could be bought a century ago for one dollar. But unfortunately our dollar has had many shrinking moods during this period, and this must be taken into account in any comparison of lighting standards with those of a century ago. For the sake of comparison let it be assumed that the purchasing power of gold is only one-third as great today as it was one hundred years ago. If the use of light were keeping pace with the efficiency of light production, the workman would be supplied with three hundred times more light than he then had. But the standard of working conditions has also greatly altered. If it be assumed that this has increased about five times, the workman today should be supplied with about fifteen hundred times more light than he had a hundred years ago."
"Engineering, perhaps more than any other profession, has many precepts and fundamental principles upon which there can be no differences in opinion among the members of the profession. Nevertheless, there are certain phases of this field of science in which the opinions and specifications sponsored by different engineers, may be as widely diversified as the diagnoses of a particular medical case by several physicians. It is only natural to expect that such a condition may frequently be encountered in any line of endeavor inasmuch as the realm of man's absolute knowledge is limited, consequently a thorough interchange of ideas on any problem upon which there is likely to be a diversity of opinion is nearly always advantageous to those concerned with its solution. As elsewhere, this is quite true in illuminating engineering as has been shown by the advances which have been made in this field during recent years."
"The fourteenth Midwinter Convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held February 8–11, 1926, maintained the tradition of its predecessors in their constantly growing importance, in the increasing number of members and guests in attendance, and in the character of the papers presented and discussed. Of all the Institute meetings, the Midwinter Convention is preeminently the working convention of the year, at which entertainment is largely subordinated to the consideration of the most technical professional problems, and the attendance this year of over 1500 members attests the worth of these conventions to the electrical profession. The entertainment features, consisting of a Smoker Tuesday evening, a Dinner-Dance Wednesday evening and two instructive popular lectures Thursday evening were well patronized and greatly enjoyed. The heaviest snowfall in several years occurred At the time of the convention and for several days almost paralyzed vehicular traffic, but despite this handicap the visits of inspection to numerous engineering establishments in and about the city of New York with few exceptions were carried out according to schedule. Monday morning was devoted to registrations of members and guests and to several committee meetings. At such intervals as occurred between the technical sessions, other committee meetings were held from time to time during the convention week."
"The Cleveland Regional Meeting arranged by the Middle Eastern District of the Institute will be held on March 18 and 19 with headquarters at the Hotel Cleveland. An attractive program will be presented including papers on sectionalized electrical drive, domestic refrigeration, engineering and humanity, and lighting. On Thursday, March 18, a dinner will be given at which the Honorable Newton D. Baker will make an address. Another feature will be a visit to Nela Park. Details of the program are given below."
"A two-day Regional Meeting will be held by the Great Lakes District of the Institute in Madison, Wise, on May 6 and 7. Some very timely topics are on. the program for discussion including rural electrification, transmission and distribution, cooperation in research between colleges and industries and radio interference. A number of foremost authorities will give papers or addresses on these subjects."
"A three-day Regional Meeting will be held in Niagara Falls, N. Y., on May 26–28, by the Northeastern District of the Institute. Many interesting papers are scheduled for the meeting and the recreational activities are being carefully arranged."
"Mechanical Power and Trend of Civilization, by C. E. Skinner, Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Engineers' Club. March 19,8:15 P.M."
"Preparations are now well advanced for the meeting of the International Electrotechnical Commission to be held in New York in April. This Commission, which is an international standardizing body in the electrical industry, was organized in 1906 following suggestions made at the Electrical Congress held in St. Louis in 1904. Despite its many years of activity it has never held a meeting in this country, the reason for this being the intervention of the war. The meeting in New York will be the first one which has been held with full representation of all the countries which were active in the Commission prior to the war."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute beadquarters, New York, on Tuesday, February 9, 1926."
"During June next, the Association of Engineers of Brussels will celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of its foundation."
"On February 15, 1926 The Executive Committee of the New York Section of the A. I. E. E. appointed a Nominating Committee as follows: L. F. Morehouse, Chairman; H. H. Barnes, C. E. Stephens, J. C. Parker, E. E. Dorting. The committee is particularly desirous of receiving suggestions from members of the Section for officers for 1926–27. A Chairman, secretarytreasurer, and two members of the Executive Committee are to be nominated. Petitions signed by not less than ten members of the Section may be made and should be received prior to March 8,1926. Send your suggestions or petitions to L. F. Morehouse, Chairman Nominating Committee New York Section, 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"In accordance with an invitation extended by the National museum of engineering and industry to several Societies many of whose members had joined it individually to nominate representatives to its Board of Trustees, the National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Chemical Society and the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education have responded favorably and are now represented on its Board constituted as follows:"
"At the annual meeting of Engineering Foundation February 11, the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Chairman, Lewis B. Still well (member, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Society of Civil Engineers); Vice-Chairman, Elmer A. Sperry (member, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers). George A. Orrok (member, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Am. Inst, of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, American Society of Civil Engineers). Additional members of Executive Committee, J. Vipond Davies, (member Am. Inst, of Mining & Metallurgical Engineers, Am. Society of Civil Engineers). Arthur M. Greene, Jr., (member, American Society of Mechanical Engineers). Director and Secretary, Alfred D. Flinn; Treasurer, Jacob S. Langthorn; Assistant Treasurer, Henry A. Lardner."
"Throughout 1925, as in the preceding year, the energies of the Trustees were devoted largely to improving the investment of trust funds. Especial attention was given to the Engineering Foundation endowment. A new active bank account was authorized to be established January 1,1926 at the Fifth Avenue branch of The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company."
"H. W. YOUNG, President of the Delta-Star Electric Co., Chicago, sailed March 6th on the Berengaria for a six weeks business trip to England, France and Italy. He is accompanied by Mrs. Young."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Philo Generating Station of the Ohio Power Company, by J. A. Bergin, Superintendent of Operation. Illustrated with slides. January 16. Attendance 90."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager, MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute was founded in 1884. By 1900 it had attained a membership of 1142. In 1902–3, under the administration of President C. F. Scott, the establishment of Sections and Branches was approved and encouraged. Five years later, in 1907, there were 19 Sections and 17 Branches, with a total membership in the Institute of 4861. Together with the rapidly developing profession of electrical engineering and the impetus given by the activities of the Institute and its Sections and Branches, there has come the remarkable growth of the Institute during the last twenty years. This is indicated by the following tabulation:"
"Comfort A. Adams, the 31st president of the Institute, 1918–1919, was born in Cleveland, Ohio, Nov. 1,1868. His early education in the public schools of Cleveland was followed by four years at Case School of Applied Science from which he received the degree of B. S. in Electrical and Mechanical Engineering in 1890, the degree of E. E. in 1905 and in 1925 the honorary degree of Doctor of Engineering. During three years of his undergraduate period, Mr. Adams was assistant to Dr. A. A. Michelson in the Physical Laboratory."
"Special features of industry react on selection of equipment. Speed of conducting operations directly affects value of property; the mining personnel has a somewhat unique psychology; the cost of providing space underground is enormous. Certain requirements result and equipment must be selected accordingly. Compressed air has been the only power medium and still reigns supreme for rock drills. Electric power has captured the field for large, underground pumps, hoists, and fans, but not for miscellaneous service. Mines have, and always will have, a complete distributing system for compressed air. In the future, they will also have distribution system for electric power. Results of practical experience are outlined. Power cables should be of small capacity and all of the same size. Three separate types of protection should be used for overloads, short circuits, and grounds, respectively. Distribution is generally at 2800 volts but might, with advantage, be at 4000 volts, grounded neutral. Magnet switches have solved the problem of starting and controlling motors. Reduced voltage starting is undesirable. Sealed type bearings eliminate much bearing trouble. A new type of large hoist occupying the minimum of space is now being installed at the Park-Utah. The field of mechanical haulage is undeveloped, but conditions to be met are formulated. Mechanical loaders' are beginning to receive serious attention."
"To the Board of Directors: To anyone who has followed closely from its insignificant status at the beginning, on through the first and into the second quarter of this 20th century, the application of electricity in the iron and steel industry, the steady growth to its present gigantic proportions has always seemed inevitable, though none the less amazing."
"A brief history of the development of engineering education in the United States and a consideration of the usual type of curriculum in particular branches of engineering are followed by reasons for the development of a new type of curriculum and a discussion of its principal characteristics. The recently adopted curriculum leading to the degree of Bachelor of Arts in Engineering at Stanford University is given in detail. The ideals discussed in the paper are emphasized by a few selected quotations from statements of leading executives and teachers."
"To the Board of Directors: The Committee on Instruments and Measurements undertook to continue this year two of the studies begun in 1924 and to start a third major study."
"During the past few years, stability characteristics of systems using long lines have been discussed at considerable length, but not so much attention has been given to the characteristics of the load. This paper shows that power limits may be reached with very short lines and certain classes of load. The characteristics of several classes of load, such as motors of various kinds with constant shaft output, variable impedance loads (synchronous converters for railways), constant impedance, and miscellaneous combinations, are discussed as they affect the stability of the generator. The criterions for the stability of an alternator as developed by this paper are “short-circuit ratio,” saturation, power factor of the load, and character of the load. A series of curves and a formula for the minimum allowable value of short-circuit ratio as a function of saturation and power factor are proposed for general purpose alternators which may be called upon to deliver power to any of the various classes of load. These curves are derived from characteristic curves of typical machines. It is not intended that these curves shall be used for generators which supply power over long transmission lines, as the characteristics of these lines may require considerably higher values of short-circuit ratio, and the generator must be specially designed to meet the individual requirements."
"Proceeding upon the theory that the dry heat of the sun ever since the creation has been nature's best curative agent and that the light and heat from ordinary electric lamps is the nearest artificial approach to it, Dr. Milton Fairchild of Chevy Chase, just outside of Washington, D. C, has built a long box in which are seven or eight house lamps. It is suspended over his bed by sash cord and window weights and can be drawn down over him leaving only his head protruding after he has turned in for the-night. By a rheostat he can adjust the lamps to produce just the right degree of heat. He says it is a great success and that anybody can make one. Already 30 doctors of the Washington district agree with him."
"For generations fossil hunting has been a backbreaking process of laboriously picking and shoveling remains of prehistoric fauna out of rock and clay way out in a sun-baked desert. Today a huge electric shovel excavated fossilized fishes which lived in the Devonian period. It is doing this in a suburban region that some day will be overgrown by Cleveland and will be rendered forbidden ground for the excavations of paleontologists. The shovel is digging up geologic information by the ton, its electric power having removed all back-break from the process."
"GENERAL DESCRIPTION THE vibration recorder was first designed to measure vibrations of rotating turbine wheels and the whipping of rotating shafts. The development of this instrument was necessary because ordinary hand micrometers or indicating devices could not be applied to the moving parts due to their inaccessible location."
"In attempting to analyze various experimental data that have been obtained in researches on dielectric phenomena in high-voltage cable insulation and other dielectrics, the various existing theories of dielectric behavior have seemed inadequate. A critical study has therefore been made of these theories in an attempt to obtain a working hypothesis that more nearly meets the stringent requirements of experimental facts. The logarithmic formula is shown to give erroneous results if applied to high-voltage cables when they are operating under high stress. The gradient in a cable must be calculated from the volt-ampere characteristic of the dielectric when stresses above the elastic limit are used. For stresses below the elastic limit it makes no difference which method is used, but at high stresses an entirely different gradient distribution is obtained when calculated from the volt-ampere characteristic. Likewise, when an insulation is operated above the elastic limit the stress ceases to be a critical factor, but the strain is of utmost importance. In comparing cables that are operating under high voltages, therefore, the strain at the core should be considered rather than the stress at the core. Stress is given by the voltage gradient and strain by the polarization or the current density in the dielectric. Since there is always a conduction current flowing, there must be mobile or free ions present. It is assumed that these free ions or electrons come from the molecules of the dielectric and that the number that are present depends on a condition of equilibrium existing between the molecules and the free ions. There exists then a state of kinetic equilibrium between the molecules and the free or mobile ions. Any change in external or internal conditions will disturb the equilibrium, and thus change the electrical behavior of the dielectric. Thermal effects and corona effects are accounted for on this basis. Breakdown occurs when the equilibrium conditions are so disturbed that the insulation as a whole becomes unstable, electrically. High stress or strain and high temperature affect the conditions of equilibrium decidedly. Corona in gases, oils, and solids consists of minute disruptive discharges that are initiated by rapid changes in equilibrium conditions when the dielectric is over stressed. In solids, however, where the ion mobility is very low and the ion friction high, there will not in general be a corona effect observed because there can be no rapid readjustment of equilibrium conditions. If the insulation is not homogeneous, or if it is composite, there will likely be internal discharges, a corona effect, when the weaker dielectric is overstressed. Moreover, since the molecules of a solid can not readjust themselves quickly to the new conditions of equilibrium imposed by a high voltage suddenly applied, there will be high local stresses and strains set up which may result in mechanical deterioration of the dielectric, that is, chipping or cracking of the dielectric. Breakdown, therefore, will take place when the insulation is rendered unstable by disturbing the equilibrium conditions, regardless of whether it is due to mechanical strains, electrical strains, or to thermal effects. The tri-fold nature of the phenomenon must be considered in the complete analysis of the problem."
"Recently many publications have been issued on mercury arc rectifier installations in this country and in Europe, as well as on the theory of their voltage and current performances. Nevertheless, it seemed that it might be of interest to give a condensed paper dealing with the most important theoretical treatments, as well as a description of a steel enclosed rectifier of modern design. The fundamental theory of these rectifiers is discussed, touching only slightly upon the physical phenomena, but treating particularly of the theory involved in the practical applications. The effects of various factors on the rectifier characteristics and operation are dealt with, and the methods used for calculating the relations of voltages, currents, transformer ratings, etc., are given and tabulated. Moreover, there are mentioned the latest developments of the rectifier proper, as well as the auxiliary devices. Included in this is the design of the transformers from a mechanical point of view, making them rigid enough to stand the mechanical stresses forced upon the windings under abnormal operating conditions; and from an electrical point of view, giving the characteristics of connections such as zig-zag windings, special polyphase windings, and the introduction of reactance absorption coils in the neutral connections of the transformer. Special attention is paid also to the anodes and their cooling equipment, and to the seals, several ingenious points being brought out in their construction. The vacuum question also is considered one of the most important, not only from the standpoint of producing and maintaining the vacuum, but also from the standpoint of measuring it. The importance of properly measuring the degree of vacuum, as well as the amount of mercury and other vapor present in the cylinder, is brought out, since it was found that the well-known devices for measuring a vacuum, such as McLeod's vacuum gage, did not give the actual conditions existent in the cylinder, but only a relative indication, namely, the pressure of the perfect gases. A new vacuum-measuring gage of novel design, which only very recently has been developed to its present state of perfection, is described in detail and its operation explained. This gage makes it possible to measure and record the absolute pressure of the gases and vapors contained in the rectifier cylinder. The preparation of the rectifiers for service and their operation are described, and special attention is given to the numerous advantages secured by the use of rectifiers in substations. To simplify operation and to assure continuity of service, a simple and reliable method of ignition and excitation had to be developed. Without touching upon the two methods formerly employed, i. e., d-c. — a-c. ignition and excitation, a new method, lately developed, which proved to be extremely serviceable in practise, is described and illustrated in detail. The simplicity of starting and operation, the ease of control and the adaptability to full automatic operation, as well as the high efficiencies of these rectifiers, are dealt with and all the advantages are recapitulated at the end. A somewhat exhaustive bibliography, which might be of value to future investigators, is also appended."
"The purpose of the study which constitutes the subject matter of this paper was to investigate the reliability of Frolich's law of magnetization near saturation. For the last forty years, Frolich's law has been accepted as the most reliable expression representing the relation of magnetizing force to the magnetic induction produced thereby in ferromagnetic materials. In the course of the study it was found that the law is not as reliable as it is generally believed to be, particularly for purpose of computation of saturation value. It was also found in the course of the same study that this part of the curve follows the law, $B-H = S (1-b e^{-aH})$ … (equation 30–2) more closely than any other law yet formulated. This law and Frolich's law are both in harmony with Weber's theory of molecular orientation. (See equations 24, 25, 26)."
"That temperature influences the strength of radio signals is the conclusion reached by L. W. Austin and Miss Wymore of the Bureau of Standards, Department of Commerce. This work is a part of the program of the International Union of Scientific Radio Telegraphy, which was adopted at Brussels in 1922 and is now being carried on in the various countries belonging to the Union."
"Results of theoretical analysis, verified by miniature-system tests of the power limits of transmission systems, are discussed, among the major conclusions being the following: The criterion for stability under all conditions is the steady-state power limit. The charging kv-a. exercises marked detrimental effects on stability. The characteristics of synchronous terminal apparatus are of great importance. Improvements can be made by modifying present apparatus design. Automatic voltage regulators, suitable exciters, and fast relays are essential. The mercury-arc rectifier, as an adjunct in excitation circuits, shows real advantages."
"R. D. Evans: Miss Clarke's paper dealing with the use of equivalent circuits for analyzing static stability, is of very considerable interest. Probably the most important contribution in the paper is the method of using an equivalent circuit to obtain the angle between generator and motor for maximum power. I believe this general method will find extensive use."
"A. E. Kennelly: In Faraday's time, the properties of substances under magnetic stress or magnetization, and the properties of dielectric materials under dielectric stress or electric induction, were studied and were regarded as of great interest by him and by his followers."
"T. D. Montgomery: Mr. Staege says that a speed adjustment of from 0.1 to one per cent is required. Does this mean that some classes of paper require 0.1 per cent while others require one per cent, or that regulation anywhere between 0.1 per cent and one per cent meets all conditions of paper making?"
"T. D. Montgomery: Mr. Staege says that a speed adjustment of from 0.1 to one per cent is required. Does this mean that some classes of paper require 0.1 per cent while others require one per cent, or that regulation anywhere between 0.1 per cent and one per cent meets all conditions of paper making?"
"D. W. Roper: In Fig. 3 of the paper, the greatest reduction in the operating troubles is the reduction in the interruptions due to lightning. I would just like to ask Mr. Boyce how these reductions were brought about and to what extent the reductions shown were due to reduction in number of, or severity of, the lightning storms."
"Edward Bennett: In order to appreciate the significance of the point of view which has been developed in Professor Peters' paper, it may be helpful to review the sequence in which the knowledge of the properties of circuits has developed. Practising engineers were first confronted with direct-current problems, and quickly obtained a very good understanding of the properties of complex networks or combinations of circuits, provided the problems related only to the steady flow of continuous currents in the networks."
"With 25,000,000 candle power of light flashed against the sky each night, New York's Great White Way is a challenge to the imagination and ingenuity of the advertising artist. One has but to saunter up Broadway at night time to see how well this challenge is being met with every conceivable device for attracting the attention of the vast crowds that throng the brightest spot in the world every evening. Of all these various devices, animated lights, with the extensive variety of motions they make possible, are seen to be in predominance. For the great power of moving lights lies in the fact that they help to tell a story vividly, and the advertiser who can get his story across to the public can be sure of its attention."
"Preparations are complete for an excellent convention at Salt Lake City, September sixth to ninth inclusive. A most interesting collection of papers dealing with a wide range of subjects will be presented and a most enjoyable program of trips and entertainment has been arranged. The program is as follows:"
"A two-day Regional Meeting is planned to be held in New York City, November 11 and 12. There will be four principal technical subjects discussed; namely, secondary distribution networks, illumination, communication, and railroad electrification. A number of excellent pap ars on these topics has been promised. In addition to the papers, other interesting features will be arranged, including inspection trips, entertainment, etc."
"Foreign delegates to the coming convention of the American Chemical Society are beginning to arrive in New York preparatory to meeting with probably the largest contingent that has ever visited America in attendance at the convention to be held in Philadelphia, September 6th. Among these early arrivals are Sir James Colquhoun Irvine, principal of the Scottish University of St. Andrews and head of its department of chemistry, Fellow of the Royal Society, Davy Medalist in 1925, and an eminent investigator of carbonhydrates; Leonor Michaelis, Professor of biological chemistry, University of Berlin; Professor Ernst Cohen, Physical Chemistry Dept., University of Utrecht; Dr. Camille Matignon, editor-in-chief of Chimie et Industrie and head of research laboratory in College de France; and Gabriel Bertrand, Professor of biological Chemistry at the Sorbonne, chief of the service of biological chemistry of the Pasteur Institute and internationally known as a devotee of research."
"The tifty-sixth annual convention of the American Society of Civil Engineers will be held October 4–9, 1926, at Philadelphia, Pa. The fact that at this same time, the Sesquicentennial Exposition celebrating the 150th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence, will be in progress also at Philadelphia, will enhance the attractions of the Convention and permit of a program planned for participation in the spirit of the Exposition as well as in the pleasures and scientific progress of the Convention itself. A large attendance is expected."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers of the administrative year beginning August 1, 1926, was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, August 10."
"Three reports on proposed A. I. E. E. Standards are now available for purposes of criticism and suggestion before final adoption by the Institute. Copies may be obtained without charge by addressing H. E. Farrer, Secretary, A. I. E. E. Standards Committee, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. The reports referred to are as follows:"
"Standards for transformers not exceeding 600 volt-amperes and intended for interior installations. Special rules applying to transformers used in connection with bells, lock controls, and portable lamps, have been developed because of the conditions under which such apparatus is installed, often in damp inaccessible places and without intermediate circuit breakers."
"The 1926 edition of the American engineering standards committee's Year Book is now ready for distribution and may be obtained by application to the secretary, P. G. Agnew, 29 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. The Committee reports that the movement toward standardization of industrial products has shown marked progress during the past year, with over 200 definite standardization projects in process or completed, and with 365 national technical societies, government bureaus and trade associations collaborating through approximately 1600 representatives."
"The Engineering Societies Library has to thank Mr. E. L. De Golyer, Vice-President of the Americau Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, for an unusually interesting addition to its collection of early engineering books. Mr. De Golyer's gift is a copy of the rare first edition of Albaro Alonzo Barba's “El arte de los metales,” published at Madrid in 1640, the earliest work published on American metallurgy."
"Plans to expedite experiments in dieselizing Shipping Board vessels were authorized by the Board on July 27th, according to official announcement made by T. V. O'Connor, Chairman, on the day following. Early arrangements will be made to work with William Francis Gibbs, a nationally known marine engineer, and others, for the purpose of making tests on vessels coming under control of the Board."
"The radio bills known as the White Bill in the House and the Dill Bill in the Senate, both of which failed of enactment in the last session of Congress, are being sent to the members of the Conference Committee from both the House and Senate, and a meeting has been called for November in an effort to iron out the differences between these bills and to prepare a measure on which it is hoped both houses can agree early in the next session. In the meantime the Department of Commerce is continuing limited control of radio through the Bureau of Navigation. Technical problems concerning the development of the radio art from a scientific standpoint are centered in the radio laboratory of the Bureau of Standards."
"Under the new civil aviation law, the Department of Commerce has taken jurisdiction over the lighting of postal airways, markings, and emergency landing facilities, and will take exclusive control of mapping of airways, charge of radio directional work, safety inspection of airplanes, licensing of pilots, and promote civil aviation generally."
"A survey to determine the suitability of various grades of lumber for uses in the manufacture of electrical goods is to be made by L. N. Ericksen of the staff of the Forest Service's Forest Products Laboratory, as announced at the Department of Agriculture."
"According to a statement just issued by the Geological Survey of the Department of the Interior, discovery of manganese are deposits in the Olympic Mountain territory, State of Washington, lends color to the belief that other workable bodies of the are will be found in that belt."
"The Department of the Interior, through the Geological Survey, has just issued a report of the amount of developed water power in the United States as of January 1, 1926. This report shows that the capacity of water-wheels in plants of 100 h. p. or more on the first of this year was 11,176,596 h. p., an increase of 1,138,941 h. p., or about 11.5 per cent since March, 1925."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"C. E. Burgoon has been appointed quarry manager of the Maule Ojus Rock Co., Ojus, Fla."
"Clifford Gray Linnell, born August 22, 1891, died July 2, 1926, after a short illness. Mr. Linnell joined the Institute in 1915. He was educated in the Brownville schools and later attended Clarkson College at Potsdam, N. Y. In 1913 he was given charge of the electrical and mechanical work for a large Massachusetts plant, butin 1915 joined the Aluminum Company of America, Massena, New York; he also spent some time with the Duquesne Light Company at Pittsburgh, Pa. In 1925 he resigned from the Duquesne Light Company to identify himself with the Westchester Lighting Company at Mount Vernon, New York, with which he was connected at the time of his death. He was chief of the Distribution Department, and valued for his diligent and capable service."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary, at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil. Mining. Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"AIYANGAR, SRINIVASA RAJAGOPALA, Managing Engineer, Sri Brahmavidyambal Electric Supply Corp., Ltd., Ramachandrapuram, Trichinopoly Dist., S. India."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"The engineering graduate has often been criticised of late years for various shortcomings. These criticisms naturally reflect upon the institutions that give education in engineering subjects. As an educator, I would like to say a few words concerning this matter and set forth briefly both some of the reasons for criticism and some of the measures that educational institutions are using to rectify the causes of criticism. In this connection, I might point out that before becoming an educator I spent more than twenty-five years in the actual practise of engineering, and therefore have been able to observe this problem from both sides."
"William McClellan, thirty-fourth president of the Institute (1921–1922), was born in the city of Philadelphia, Pa., November 5, 1872. Here he also received his education, first at the Manual Training School and later at the University of Pennsylvania, from which, in 1900, he received his B. S. degree; in 1903 he obtained the degree of Ph.D, and in 1914 his degree in Electrical Engineering."
"This Bill has passed the Senate and is definitely set for a vote in the House of Representatives December 9th. It is a public measure, important to the country at large, and particularly to those interested in patents, since sole jurisdiction over suits enforcing or annulling patents rests with the Federal Judges."
"Preliminary announcements have been made of a new type of rectifier which is extremely simple in principle and operation and which will be described in detail in a forthcoming paper before the Institute. The discoverer of the principle is Dr. L. 0. Grondahl, who described it in a recent number of Science. The rectifier consists of a disk of copper having a coating of oxide formed on its surface and another metallic disk forming the opposite electrode. Under suitable conditions current flows more readily from the oxide to the copper than in the reverse direction."
"Successful experiments in switching or breaking a circuit in a high vacuum have been made at the California Institute of Technology. This paper is a report on three sets of these experiments which extended over a period of three years. The conclusions drawn from the experiments may be summed up in the statement that vacuum breakers of laboratory type have been successful in breaking circuits and offer a possible solution of the circuit-breaker problem. The results show that switching in vacuum affords the advantages of no pitting of contacts, quick break, the arc always going out on the first half cycle, small voltage rise across the switch, and small distance of travel necessary for the switch blades. Making the vacuum switch practical calls for a solution of the problem of making commercial apparatus with vacuum-tight joints, and the elimination of the use of liquid air with the vacuum pump."
"The present report of the Committee on Power Transmission and Distribution has been prepared through the cooperative efforts of the members of the Committee and does not represent the views of any particular member or group of members. Each of the several topics found below has been considered by those particular committee members who are the best qualified to discuss that subject and the subject matter herein is substantially that prepared by such members."
"This paper deals with the design and construction of the third 220,000-volt line between Los Angeles and Big Creek, giving the results and brief descriptions of the research engineering investigations which were carried out in connection with the design. The salient features of the line are: Terminals — Big Creek No. 3 and Gould Switching Station, near Los Angeles. Length — 223.5 mi. Route — Direct route with few angles. Dead-ends — Dead-ends only at station terminals and heavy angles. Small angles — Small angles up to 11 deg. 40 min., in some cases, turned on suspension insulators. Conductors — Steel reinforced aluminum. 1,033,500 cir. mils aluminum, 54 strands. 134,000 cir. mils steel, 7 strands. Weight: 1.33 lb. per ft. Diameter: 1.247 in. Overhead Ground Wire — None. Towers — Towers of high elastic limit steel. Height of standard towers, 64 ft. to crossarm. Height of anchor tower, 56 ft. to cross-arm. Weight of standard tower, 8890 lb. Weight of anchor tower, 13,600 lb. Tower Footings — Grillage footings in earth. For standard towers, 4 ft. 8 in. sq. at base and 8 ft. deep. Weight, 2040 lb. For anchor towers, 7 ft. 6 in. sq. at base and 9 ft. deep. Weight, 6720 lb. Tower Extensions — Height 7, 14, or 21 ft. Any of these heights may be placed on any or all corners of the tower and in a few special cases in combination with an additional 14-ft. extension on all corners. Insulators — 10-in. cap and pin having minimum combined electrical and mechanical strength of not less than 18,000 lb. Suspension insulator assembly: Single string of 13 units where maximum stress in string will not exceed 6000 lb. Double string 13 units in length where maximum load will exceed 6000 lb. Dead-end assembly: Double string, 15 units in length. Tie-down assembly: Single string of 14 units. Shield Rings — Hoops of 8-in. by 3/16-in. strap iron. Bird Guards — Pans and saw-tooth guards on all towers. Increases in the generator capacity at Big Creek, which are scheduled to be completed in 1928, will require more transmission capacity to deliver the power to Los Angeles. For this reason, a third 220,000-volt line is being built between those points."
"A brief description of the origins and causes of phase difference in dielectrics."
"In his Annual Report of the Department of Commerce Secretary Hoover states that there has been a large increase in the application of electrical power in manufacturing, and while there has been an increase during this period of between five and six million horse power used in factory production, there has been no increase in boilers and engines installed within these plants, the increase having been made almost entirely by electrical motors operated through purchased power. There has also been a transformation from direct-connected steam equipment within factories to factory electrical generation for distribution throughout the plants until at the present moment apparently 70 per cent of factory power is delivered to the machines electrically."
"The accuracy of all calculations relating to the hunting of synchronous machines connected mechanically to reciprocating apparatus depends largely upon the correctness with which the value of the synchronizing power Ps may be determined. Thus, the calculation of flywheels necessary for the parallel operation of engine driven generators depends entirely on a correct value of Ps. Likewise, the W R2 which it is necessary to incorporate in the rotors of synchronous motors when driving compressors or pumps can be calculated correctly only when Ps is accurately known. So far as the author is aware, no attempt at a complete analysis of the subject has been made heretofore. The object of this paper is to develop a method by which the synchronizing power Ps may be calculated fairly accurately under any condition likely to be met with. The method applies only to synchronous machines of the usual definite pole construction. Blondel's conception of two reactions with some modifications and extensions is followed generally throughout the paper."
"“I expect to see and hear by electricity the presidential inauguration in 1929 even though I may be thousands of miles away from Washington,” declares Dr. Gerald Wendt, director of the division of industrial research, Pennsylvania State College. He is foreseeing electrical advances that are sure to be made in the next few years by industrial research. “Single pictures are already being sent across the sea,” he points out. “When a more sensitive photoelectric cell is developed, a picture will be transmitted as rapidly as the movie can flash it on the screen. In Washington during the ceremony, the microphone will have a ‘microscope’ alongside it and I shall be sitting in my own living room seeing and hearing the entire performance as if I were on the spot. Then we shall have radio movies for every home.”"
"Power lines have to be built to support wind as well as wire. Where a new high-tension line crosses the Sacramento River with a span four-fifths of a mile long, the tallest power-line tower in the world rears its top 459 feet in air. The weight of wire suspended in a long arc from this tower to another 410 feet high on the opposite side of the stream is 69,000 pounds but wind pressure against the wires may add as much as 14,400 lb. to the load. The tallest steel structure itself weighs 405,000 lb. but is built to resist a wind pressure of 108,000 lb. It stands on a foundation of piles driven 80 ft. into the ground under a concrete base weighing a million pounds. Sixty-six per cent of this piling and concrete is required for wind load only."
"The first circle diagrams of the character herein described were published almost simultaneously by Thielemans in Europe and Evans and Sels in this country. The diagram of Evans and Sels is not nearly as complete as Thielemans's, but is more easily constructed because of the mathematical methods employed to determine the circle centers and radii. The present paper is an elaboration of the work done by these two investigators. It coordinates the graphical and mathematical methods of construction and extends their application. The principal contributions of this article are incorporated in Tables I and II and in the paragraphs concerning geometrical checks that may be applied to the circle diagram. Tables I and II include formulas for determining the coefficients of a large number of circular loci which have not been heretofore constructed by mathematical methods. Other formulas given in Tables I and II are to be found elsewhere, but generally in a somewhat more complicated, although equivalent, form. The graphical checks that result from the geometrical properties of the circle diagram, as first investigated by Thielemans, have not heretofore been applied to diagrams derived by mathematical computations. By establishing the identity of the Thielemans and Evans and Sels diagrams, it has been possible to utilize the numerous geometrical properties of the diagram that Thielemans has worked out, as well as to make use of other graphical properties. With the aid of the information incorporated in the following paragraphs it is possible to construct a circle diagram on which may be drawn circles representing almost any conceivable locus. This construction is carried out with the aid of computations made from the relatively simple formulas incorporated in Tables I and II. Any errors in the mathematical or graphical work that lead to an incorrect diagram can be simply and quickly uncovered by applying the numerous geometrical checks that are given in the paper. The result is a diagram easy to obtain, almost error proof, and of extreme usefulness."
"Sulphur is one of the few minerals that Italy possesses and exports in large quantities, but since her practical monopoly in this ore ceased in 1905, when America began working the deposits of Louisiana and Texas, the conditions under which this branch of the Italian mining industry has labored have been very difficult and at one time disastrous. Since 1923, when an agreement as to output and sales was signed with America, there has been an improvement, but the export figures for 1925 again showed a decline."
"Former papers have discussed the voltage and nature of lightning, lightning voltages on transmission lines, and means of protecting against them, the effect of lightning voltages on insulations, etc. This paper is a further report on this investigation which has been in progress a number of years. Special attention is given here to additional work on the chance of objects being struck; the area protected from direct strokes, by a rod or number of rods, overhead wires, grids, nets, etc.; the effect of nets and cages in reducing induced voltages, etc. This work is particularly applicable to the protection of oil tanks, buildings, magazines, etc."
"This paper describes some of the features of design and construction of the 110-kv. transmission lines of The Washington Water Power Compnay. A brief outline is given of the loads served and existing interconnections, with other electric utilities. The general design of single- and double-pole circuits, covering the alinement, the profile, and the structure types, is taken up in detail. Special reference is made to certain long span construction and to the construction required in heavy frost-loading areas. The materials used are fully described and several important construction details are discussed. Illustrations are included, showing the form of sag tension curves used for stringing and sagging conductors. A new type of 110-kv. fuse used in conjunction with an induction type relay is described, the new type of fuse being used on 110-kv. substations of relatively low capacity. The paper is concluded with a full description of a new method of pole preservation known as the “Cold Treater Dust Method.”"
"While the far western states (Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming) are known much more for metal mining than for coal, their ultimate natural wealth in coal nevertheless far exceeds that of all combined metallic resources. Government estimates place the combined coal tonnage in the above mentioned states as only a trifle less than 50 per cent of the total coal tonnage of the entire United States, yet these states now produce less than five per cent of the annual output of the United States. Utah alone is credited with having within its boundaries nearly 200,000,000,000 tons of coal and to date has mined less than 100,000,000 tons or about 5/100 of one per cent, annual tonnage mined being around 5,000,000. From the above it will be seen that coal constitutes a vital part of the resources of the West and while water-generated electricity is a strong competitor of coal, yet much of the coal mined goes to generate electricity and on the other hand electricity enters very actively into the mining of coal. Consequently the subject of electricity and coal mining is of decided interest to the West as well as to all of the rest of the United States, but as it is a very broad subject, this paper will be confined chiefly to influence of electricity at the mines rather than including the broader subject of influence on markets."
"The first public announcement of what is considered an important advance in automotive engineering was made November 15 at the monthly meeting of the Metropolitan Section of the Society of Automotive Engineers. At this meeting was described a single sleeve valve engine which has been in course of development for nearly two years."
"The difficulties encountered in maintaining a sufficiently high degree of line insulation on long communication circuits in the vicinity of Great Salt Lake, Utah, are dealt with in this paper and a review of the study and solution of the problem of controlling the insulation is made. Leading up to this is a description of observations on about 40 mi. of line over a part of the Great Salt Lake Desert known as the mud flats west of the Lake. The description also covers observations on other lines north of the Lake. The object of these studies was to ascertain the variations in the line insulation caused by different weather and temperature conditions in each of these routes. It was necessary also to determine which route would be better for constructing the central transcontinental communication circuits which were about to be built at that time for extending service to provide telephone connection between points on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts."
"The engineering colleges of the U. S. A. are expending about one million dollars per year for research of direct value to industry. The organized research departments or engineering experiment stations of many state supported engineering colleges are cooperating with industry in a variety of projects. In several institutions the amounts appropriated by the cooperating agencies are large, but the total funds expended for engineering research in colleges is less than one-thirtieth of the amount spent by these institutions for undergraduate instruction. While the results of cooperative research are directly of value to industry, the by-product of such research relations is a supply of scientifically trained research engineers. Industry has a clear cut obligation to support engineering research at colleges in order to improve the quality of the college training, to advance basic knowledge in engineering and to increase the supply of trained personnel."
"In its visualization of a policy of water development, the department has indicated seven great projects of major importance: (1) Mississippi system; (2) Columbia River system; (3) Colorado River; (4) Great Lakes system; (5) the Great Valley of California; (6) intracoastal waterways; (7) other important developments, including the Rio Grande and Hudson Rivers."
"To the Board of Directors: Continuing the policy of last year the committee organized its work along the following lines: 1. To secure and present papers covering general power applications not previously on record before the Institute. 2. To study the field of general power application with a view to indicating such parts of the field as are not now adequately served and to point the way toward future developments. 3. To summarize in the Annual Report the progress in General Power Applications during the past year. 4. To present a bibliography which may be referred to by those who desire more complete and detailed information."
"Sketching out 60-ft. heads of Washington, Lincoln, Jefferson and Roosevelt on the bald rock face of Rushmore Mountain in the Black Hills of South Dakota is one of the huge tasks which Gutson Borglum, noted sculptor of memorials, is carrying out with electric light preliminary to the actual carving. Lantern slides projected at night against the mountain by powerful light were used for this work when Borglum laid out and partly executed the famous memorial of the South on Stone Mountain near Atlanta. The faces are drawn on the slides and thrown on the rock surface in the exact size of the finished work. Painters in slings hung against the sheer rock surface of the mountain drew the outlines indicated by the light so that on the following days the work of stone cutting could proceed."
"The Committee on Applications to Mining Work has done very little constructive work during the past year. From the nature of things, the Committee can only watch the development of the use of electric power in mines. This use is becoming more general every year and electric motors are supplanting every other kind of motive power. This is due, of course, to their higher efficiency and flexibility of control, combined with the fact that they are just as reliable, if properly designed for mine use, as any of the other forms of drive. I think that no mine operator who is contemplating the opening of a new mine would consider any other method of drive."
"J. H. Cox: I am glad to note that the Lichtenberg figures are receiving attention, from the engineering standpoint, by others. All of this work will hasten a more thorough understanding of the phenomenon."
"P. L. Hoovers I should like to discuss briefly power-factor measurement in connection with bridge methods. There may be some doubt as to the accuracy of any bridge in measuring power factor, for, as Mr. Lee has pointed out, power factor is the ratio of the total power loss to the product of the voltage and the current. Now if a tuned vibration galvanometer is used for detecting the balance point of the bridge, only the losses due to a single frequency and not the total losses are measured. Fortunately in most cases the error that is introduced in this connection is probably very small and negligible. Nevertheless, most a-c. bridges cannot be regarded as precision power-factor bridges, since the power-factor balance is so critically dependent on an accurate capacity balance. For instance, with the Wien or the Schering bridge, if the capacity balance is off by one per cent the power factor may be off by as much as 50 or 100 per cent. Experimentally this means that the capacity balance must be made to a much greater precision than is required for the power factor. Such an experimental condition is to be avoided if possible."
"J. R. Craighead: In the study of any characteristic of a material for engineering purposes the first results must be obtained by measurement. From these results an empirical formula is usually developed which should be accepted until fresh data disagree, when the formula should be modified or extended to include all the data."
"H. B. Dwight: The report states that the committee desires that suitable commercial test methods be developed for a more accurate determination of the efficiency of synchronous machines than is given by the present Standardization Rules. Possibly one of these items is the amount of core loss corresponding to full-load conditions."
"P. S. Stevens: Mr. McNeill has mentioned the effect of electric power on the mechanical design of the shovel, such as better gearing, lubrication, etc. I would like to further point out that the variable-voltage control with separately excited motors described by Mr. McNeill is so complete and well suited to shovel operation that it has been possible to simplify the mechanical design of electric shovels without any sacrifice. For example, on two models of medium-sized shovels recently developed, the usual band-type air-operated clutch previously required for disconnecting the engine or motor from the hoisting drum has been omitted. This clutch has been omitted for the same reason also on a large 12-yard Diesel-electric dipper dredge recently put in operation. The elimination of this clutch and its operating mechanism, reduces the care and maintenance of the shovel and is made possible by the quick acceleration and quick and smooth stopping afforded by the separately excited motor control with motor lowering. The motor is actually driven down to a certain extent, so that fast lowering speed is obtained and the shovel operator can graduate his lowering speed or check it any time under perfect control."
"F. E. Terman (communicated after adjournment): The results obtained by Dr. Slepian and his speculations on their significance are most fascinating. After reviewing the approximate temperature rise for different cases, as given in Table I, it is interesting to consider at least qualitatively the effect of some of the factors which have not been taken into account in the formula the paper derives for temperature rise."
"C. R. Higson: I should like to ask Mr. Gamble regarding the effect of this powder on cattle or on a man's hands, or if it is poisonous in case a man should happen to get it in his mouth."
"By the usual methods of photometry, two lights are compared by balancing the brightness of adjacent surfaces which are illuminated by the two sources. In this way, lights from sources of slightly different color can be compared with a probable error of photometric measurement of about 1 or 2 per cent. When the color difference is considerable, however, as when red, blue or green light is compared with white light in determining the transmission of colored glass or accessories for colored lighting and the luminous output of colored lamps, the measurements become extremely difficult and the observational errors may be quite large."
"A program of great interest was presented at a two-day meeting of District No. 3 of the A. I. E. E. at the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, November 11–12. The attendance was approximately 700, comparing favorably with some of the national meetings. The technical sessions, which were well attended, included papers under the three general subjects of a-c. distribution networks, illumination, and communication. The technical program was augmented by a very interesting lecture on Thursday evening by Professor Robert W. Wood, of Johns Hopkins University, who spoke on some of the latest accomplishments and discoveries in the field of physical research, and on Friday evening by a demonstration of the Vitaphone, arranged through the courtesy of the New York Electrical Society."
"On the evening of Friday, December 3, 1926, the New York Section of the A. I. E. E. will hold a meeting on the subject of “Transportation.” Two speakers of the evening will be men of great prominence in the New York field; Mr. Frank Hedley, President of the Interborough Rapid Transit Co. will talk on “The Interborough Rapid Transit System A General Description of Its Operation,” and the second speaker will be the Honorable George S. Silzer, Ex-Governor of New Jersey and Chairman of the Port of New York Authority. Mr. Silzer will have for his subject “The Port of N. Y. Authority Its Functions and Progress.”"
"The program of the coining Annual Meeting, Dec. 6–7 inclusive, as planned by The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, will include five speakers of international repute. William L. Abbott, the retiring president, will deliver his president's address the evening of December 7th, and will introduce as the presidentelect, Charles M. Schwab. Upon Mr. Elmer A. Sperry, a member of the A. I. E. E., will be bestowed the John Fritz Medal. The Robert Henry Thurston Lecture will be delivered at 4:30 on the afternoon of December 7th by Dr. Cecil H. Lander, English civil and mechanical engineer, Director of Fuels Research, Dept. of Science and Industrial Research, London and, during the World War, Lieutenant R. N. V. R. in charge of the Electrical Section of Explosive Paravanes. The technical sessions have been arranged with great care and there also will be special features of interest to the visiting ladies. No inconsiderable attention will be devoted also to the student activities; in fact, the meeting will close Friday night with the college reunions."
"Meeting at Cornell University November 11–12, 1926, with its president, Dean Dexter S. Kimball, the Administrative Board of American Engineering Council weighed several of the outstanding national engineering problems. Important among its actions were decisions to assist in minimizing the volume of corporate reports, to assist in the Hoover plan for the development of a national policy for water resources, to sponsor a standardization program for street and highway safety signals, to continue its prosecution of the effort to secure a National Department of Public Works and Domain, to make further study of the proposed Standard State Mechanics Lien Act, to regularize patent procedure and urge a more adequate patent office building."
"Twenty-five years of successful scientific research work will be celebrated by the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Bureau of Standards, Department of Commerce, on Saturday, December 4, 1926, when the Bureau will keep “open house” and give a banquet at which its many friends may meet the staff and reminisce with them regarding the achievements of the last quarter century, as well as discuss the present and future work. A group of distinguished guests will attend. The event is of interest to the world of science as well as to the industrial experts who have worked so closely in cooperation with the Bureau, in turn making application of its discoveries and developments in perfecting the measured control of processes."
"It was stated orally October 29, that, through the Chief of Engineers of the Army, the Department of War will report to Congress against the proposal of an all-American ship canal across the State of New York to connect the Great Lakes and the Atlantic Ocean through the Hudson River and New York Harbor."
"A list of members whose mail nas been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 38 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Index of papers, discussions, reports, etc."
"On June 10, Dr. Jewett, National Secretary Hutchinson and the undersigned met in conference with Messrs. Wickenden and Hammond, representatives of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, for the purpose of discussing the following findings and recommendations of the Board of Investigation and Coordination regarding Engineering Education:"
"H. B. Buck, twenty-ninth president of the A. I. E. E., 1916–1917, was bora in New York City, May 7th, 1873. He graduated from Yale University in 1894 with the degree of Ph. B. and received his degree of E. E. from Columbia School of Mines in 1895. The year 1895–1896 was spent as a student in the shops of the General Electric Company at Schenectady, and during this period, Mr. Buck did much experimental work on a-c. apparatus for the great scientist, Poctor Steinmetz."
"This paper gives a comparative study of several d-c., regenerative braking systems now in successful operation. The general characteristics of regenerative braking, including advantages, limitations and functions are briefly discussed. The principal points covered in the descriptions of the various systems are: method of field excitation during regeneration, compensation for sudden changes in line voltage or grade, method of control, operating characteristics and relative complication of equipment. Several systems are described in which the regenerating motor fields are excited by a separate generator provided for that purpose, and then other systems are described in which the fields are excited by one or more of the traction motors. Under the former heading are included C. M. & St. P. freight locomotive with a line driven motor-generator set for excitation, the Mexican locomotive with a dynamotor-driven, motor-generator set for excitation and the axle generator system. The applications described under the latter heading are the C. M. & St. P. gearless passenger, the Paulista and the Spanish Northern locomotives. A comparison is made of these two methods of field-excitation, based on a six-motor, two-speed, 3000 — volt locomotive. Curves are included illustrating the speed-braking characteristics and also the motoring characteristics. The conclusions drawn from this comparison are that, in general, the separate excitation system is to be preferred on account of the greater braking effort and greater speed range provided. Since the motor excitation system can be provided with less additional expense, it is desirable to consider this method when the expense of the separate excitation system does not seem justifiable."
"A method of isolating grounded sections of extensive feeder networks supplying power to railways without disturbing the power supply to other sections has long been desired by railway engineers. This has been successfully accomplished by utilizing the inherent characteristics of the magnetic type of high-speed circuit breakers in the manner described in this article. These characteristics are (a) high-speed operation, (b) discriminating characteristic, (c) reduction in trip point with reduction in line voltage, (d) polarized characteristic. A description of an experimental investigation on an equivalent network for a representative section of feeder system, made up by using reactors and resistors, has been given. Complete selective operation, isolating defective feeder without disturbing the power supply to interconnected feeders, was obtained for all locations of the short circuit. Breakers of the type used successfully on d-c. networks can be applied to a-c. networks and the advantages of high-speed protection realized on this type of system. High-speed operation is very effective in reducing telephone interference during short circuits on the a-c. railway system."
"It has been known for some time that the internal mechanical pressure of cables is a factor in the quality of the insulation, and that the oil used in impregnating paper for cable insulation has a high thermal expansion which may alter the internal pressure of cables with varying temperature. This paper considers the rate of pressure equalization in cables and the relative effects of slow equalization upon long and short cables, indicating that there may be considerable difference in dielectric properties depending on the length and past history in regard to temperature cycles. Means of overcoming these differences are suggested. The paper is suggestive rather than demonstrative and it is proposed to publish a sequel giving experimental proofs of the facts stated."
"A new-type electrically driven mining machine is being now tried out in various coal regions of the country. It is a powerful machine that cuts its way into the face of a bed of coal, breaks the coal loose and loads it into mine cars without the exercise of manual labor or the firing of a single ounce of powder or dynamite, such as often cause mine explosions. In a test run, this machine was able to bore its way into a coal seam at the rate of one foot in ten minutes and at a total mining cost of half that prevailing in the handworking sections of the same mine. The entry driven in coal by the machine is 6 ft. high and 11 ft. 6 in. wide. Soc. of Elee. Dev. May 30th, 1926."
"Lack of voltage control is one of the objections which have been made to the use of rectifiers. The author describes a method of voltage control for rectifiers based on the use of a saturated core interphase transformer. Saturation of this device produces a gradual change from two three-phase rectifiers operating in parallel to one six-phase rectifier which has a higher inherent voltage ratio. The theory of operation is discussed and supporting oscillograms and observed regulation curves are shown."
"UNTIL rather recently, the practise of radio communication was confined to the use of long, earth-bound waves. These waves are preferred on account of the regularity of day and night operation and the absence of fading. The characteristics of the earth-bound wave were extensively explored and there was a tendency to generalize these results assuming that they apply to all radio wave transmission."
"The waters of the Jordan River, in Palestine, once were regarded as having power to revive the souls and spirits of men; today the river is helping to revive industry in the Holy Lands. Bernard Flexner, president of the Palestine Economic Corporation, has announced that the new corporation will help finance the hydroelectric station on the Jordan which will supplement the electric power produced by oil-engine driven generators at the ancient towns of Tel Aviv, Haifa and Tiberias."
"The bugaboo of bad light in schools and factories is no imagination, according to Guy A. Henry of New York, general director of the Eyesight Conservation Council of America. Speaking at Boston May 28 he stated that one-third of the six million retarded pupils in American schools were in their present condition because of neglected eyesight that could be partially corrected by proper illumination. Factory waste chargeable to poor lighting, he declared, totals thirty million dollars of industrial waste and industrial accidents due to poor, lighting cause an annual loss ol 300 million dollars."
"A large number of transmission lines have been erected without adequate consideration having been given to the ability of the line to stay in circuit electrically during the occurrence of lightning or other disturbance conditions. These come, however, within the range of the transmission engineer's field of action. The author's experience with a 55 — mi., 132 — kv. transmission line since 1917 to date is cited, the particular line being one which has been very successful from a standpoint of continuity of service. Further experience with other lines built with variations on the original design and placed in service in 1924 and 1925 is given. A detailed analysis is given of eighty-eight cases of lightning trouble on one of these lines during 1925, the various steps taken to reduce the frequency of this trouble, the effect of increased clearances and separations, of additional insulators, of flux control units, and of arcing horns and shields on the amount of trouble and on the damage to insulator and conductor are discussed both from the standpoint of actual experience and from the laboratory analyses and investigations made. A general discussion of the ground wire and its effect on lightning voltages is given and the arguments for and against it are discussed. The importance of paying attention to the mechanical side of the ground wire and the effect of such attention on continuity of service is pointed out. A summation is given of the analysis and experience of the authors in operation of 132,000 — volt lines as applied to transmission line design from the standpoint of continuity of service."
"Demand for electrical supplies in Mexico have been stimulated by the issuance of a new electric code, which raises the standard of permitted equipment. Existing installations shall be made to conform to the new code by July 11, 1926, but the Department of Industry, Commerce, and Labor is authorized to extend the period if necessary."
"This paper describes a zero method of measuring power by means of the quadrant electrometer developed by the authors, and which we believe to be new. Zero deflection of the electrometer is obtained by opposing the torque produced by the a-c. load by means of a counter torque set up by continuous potentials introduced into the electrometer circuit. The continuous potentials required are small in value and easily handled. We have derived the equations that apply to the method and checked their correctness by experimental observations on resistance, capacity, and inductive circuits."
"The method of complex quantities lends itself admirably to the development of general theory of the auto-transformer. As worked out, in this instance, it is found desirable to maintain the actual voltage ratio instead of reducing values to an equivalent 1:1 basis. Examples are given of calculations by this method, and also comparison is made with calculated performance of the two-circuit transformer. Certain inherent peculiarities of the auto-transformer are pointed out, being due to the effects of internal resistance and reactance. Part II is an application of the theory to transformers without iron and a number of interesting conclusions are brought out."
"The electrical performance characteristics of a polyphase synchronous machine, that is, its voltage-current relations under load, depend essentially upon the nature and the extent of the magnetomotive forces of the armature currents. Broadly speaking, the effect of these magnetomotive forces is two-fold; i. e., (a) they oppose and distort the field magnetomotive force and (b) they create leakage fields linked with the armature conductors. The first influence is known as the armature reaction, and the second as the armature reactance. More specifically, in a machine with salient poles, the armature reaction may be resolved for purposes of computation into the direct reaction (along the center lines of the poles) and the transverse reaction, midway between the poles. In polyphase machines of usual proportions, the armature leakage reactance, x, usually plays a secondary role, and for most purposes is assumed to be constant and independent of the power factor of the load. The vector of the reactive drop, Ix, is simply drawn in a leading time quadrature with the current I. However, in machines with considerable armature reactance, or where higher accuracy is required, the assumption of a constant x leads to noticeable discrepancies between the computed and observed data. This is of particular importance in problems which involve hunting, instability, etc., and in which the torque (or displacement) angle must be predicted. This angle depends to a considerable degree upon the leakage reactance of the machine. It has been previously proposed by others to use two distinct values of leakage reactance, one when the leakage paths around a group or belt of armature slots are closed through the center of a pole face (maximum reactance), and the other when such slots are midway between the poles (minimum reactance). However, no account has been taken apparently of a gradual change in the reactance between the two extreme positions, nor have the results been properly correlated with the rest of the factors which enter in the performance of the machine. In the present paper, the leakage inductance is assumed to consist of two parts, one of which is constant (the average inductance), and the other, varying harmonically at a double frequency, reaches a maximum opposite the centers of the poles. A magnetic linkage equation is written, and its derivative with respect to the time angle is taken to obtain the induced voltage. The result shows that the foregoing assumption leads to two reactive drops, one, the usual average Ix drop and another a supplementary drop, leading Ix by an angle 2 ψ, where ψ is the internal phase angle at which the machine is operating. These quantities are introduced in the usual Blondel diagrams for the generator and the motor, and the relationships among the various quantities are established both graphically and analytically."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The statement which appeared in the May 1926 JOURNAL concerning the use in several text-books of the method presented by Mr. Mershon was hastily written on the basis of impression rather than fact. Since then I have attempted, but failed, to find the method in any of the usual texts. I take this opportunity to correct my error and apologize to Mr. Mershon."
"Derivation of formula (d)."
"Since March, 1923, the Bureau of Standards has been transmitting, twice a month, radio signals of definitely announced frequencies for use by the public in standardizing frequency meters (wave meters) and transmitting and receiving apparatus. The signals are transmitted from the Bureau station, W W V, Washington, D.C., and from station 6XBM, Stanford University, California."
"C. E. Stewart: I should like, briefly, to call attention to one or two things of interest. In the first place, supervisory systems have passed the experimental stage. We have had actual service out of the systems so that we know that they are successful in the field for which they are intended. By the end of this year, systems put out by the General Electric Company alone will have supervision over some 2500 oil circuit breakers or their equivalent. We shall have in service a distributor type whereby a dispatcher at a central point will have supervision over breakers located in twenty-two outlying stations."
"P. L. Alg´er: Mr. West has presented in his paper a businesslike and accurate way of obtaining the characteristics of an a-c. motor. The method is particularly adapted, and, in fact, was especially intended, for use by engineers having to do with large numbers of motors. Probably we all agree that the circle diagram, or some similar graphical method, is most suitable for college instruction, and for use by persons only dealing with motors occasionally. When large quantities of motors are to be"
"Bancroft Gherardi: The invention of loading and the development of telephone repeaters have, together, revolutionized the engineering of toll-line plants in the United States. For the invention of loading we are indebted to Dr. Pupin."
"C. R. Hannas The following discussion applies particularly to that part of the paper dealing with the reproducing mechanism. The relative merits of the several improvements that were made are not clearly brought out in the paper and it is the purpose of the writer to compare the importance of the various developments."
"J. Slepian: The relation which is perhaps most frequently used by electrical engineers for calculating mechanical forces between circuits is that due to Maxwell, which states that, in any displacement in which currents are kept constant, the mechanical work received during' the displacement is equal to the increase in magnetic energy of the system. This relation is readily derived from the principle of conservation of energy by taking into account the electrical input during the displacement. As Professor Karapetoff puts it, there is a “fifty-fifty” rule here; half the electrical input goes to increasing the magnetic energy and half is given up to mechanical work."
"G. E. Luke: As mentioned in this paper, Professor Kennelly derived the heating characteristics of an electric machine by considering it as one “chunk” of metal2. This paper gives the thermal equations on the basis of two “chunks” of metal (core and windings). An approximate solution of this problem based on three “chunks” of metal (core, windings, and frame) was given in another previous Institute paper3. As a matter of fact, a correct solution of this problem would have to be based upon an infinite number of “chunks.”"
"By Committee on Production and Application of Light"
"The investigation of school architecture and construction showed that defective illumination of classrooms has an adverse influence on the activity of the intellectual processes of children."
"As we go to press, the Annual Convention of the A. I. E. E. is being held at White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., June 21–25 inclusive."
"This year the Pacific Coast Convention will be held in Salt Lake City, Utah, beginning September 6 and continuing through for four days. A number of very fine papers have been arranged for and the well-known hospitality of Salt Lake City and the points of interest in and nearby this city insure an enjoyable meeting."
"A regional meeting of outstanding accomplishment was held by the Northeastern District of the Institute at Niagara Falls, N. Y., May 26–28. The meeting was notable for excellent papers, earnest discussion, well attended sessions and entertainment of high grade. About 580 attended the meeting. All sessions were held in the Niagara Hotel, the convention headquarters."
"The Committee on Award of Institute Prizes, composed of Messrs. E. B. Meyer, Chairman of the Meetings and Papers Committee, L. F. Morehouse, Chairman of the Publication Committee and Percy H. Thomas, Chairman of the Power Transmission and Distribution Committee, reported on the date of June 15, as follows:"
"A completely revised report on A. I. E. E. Standards for Electrical Measuring Instruments (Section 33 of the Revised Standards) is now available, without charge, for distribution to all those interested in the subject, members or non-members."
"Preliminary plans for the Fifth National exposition of power and mechanical engineering interests indicate that the coming event which is to be held at Grand Central Palace, New York City, December 6–11 inclusive, will be larger and more comprehensive than any of their previous Expositions. Approximately 140 exhibitors have arranged displays in the heating and ventilating field, some 75 in machinery and considerable space will be devoted to exhibits on power generating equipment. In all, the exhibitors will total over 400. Mr. I. E. Moultrop of the Edison Illuminating Co. of Boston is chairman of the Advisory Board and the managers of the Exposition are Charles F. Roth and Fred W. Payne, International Exposition Company, Grand Central Station, to whom all inquiries should be addressed."
"At the annual meeting of the New York Electrical Society held on the afternoon of June 14,1926 at Institute headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, the retiring President of the Society, H. A. Kidder, Superintendent of Motor Power, Interborough Rapid Transit Company, called attention to the much broadened aim and scope of the New York Electrical Society as instanced in its work during the past year. He outlined the new policy, as follows: “To interpret to thinking people the newest things in discovery and science; to present in its meetings the latest achievements in the art and in industry; to acquaint the public with the proper status of teachers, scientific workers and engineers, and with the social value of their work.” The determined attempt to shape the work of the Society in the direction indicated has been marked with rapid and increasing success. Attendance at meetings has jumped to an average of approximately 850. Through popularization, the meetings have evidently gained greatly in favor with those within the industry. It is felt that such work as the New York Electrical Society is trying to do, should be done nationally, for if accomplished it would constitute an important and valuable public service. The better people understand the nature of scientific and industrial research and the nature and social value of the work of the engineer, the greater will be the resources at the command of such workers."
"Three technical sessions, an inspection trip to the Naval Aircraft Factory and an Aeronautic Banquet will be the attractions at the annual aeronautic meeting of the Society of Automotive Engineers, to be held in Philadelphia on September 2 and 3 at the Belle vue-Stratford hotel. This meeting immediately precedes the National air races to be run in Philadelphia consecutively from September 4 to 11."
"The engineering world will be interested in the announcement that Charles M. Upham, who, for five years was North Carolina's Chief Highway Engineer, has tendered his resignation effective June 1st, and will shoulder the duties of Managing Director of the American Road Builders' Association, and in addition, accept a few connections as consulting engineer, among them, the reorganization of the construction division of the Mexican Federal Highway Commission, he already having reorganized the engineering section."
"The first award of the John Ericsson gold medal was made to Doctor Svante Arrhenius on the evening of May 29th at the Hotel Willard, Washington, D. C. This was following the unveiling of the memorial Ericsson Statue on the Mall at which the Swedish Crown Prince, Princess Louise, President Coolidge were present, besides many other distinguished international figures."
"Beginning with the academic year 1926–27, graduate instruction will be offered in the Moore School of Electrical Engineering, with the degree of Master of Science in Electrical Engineering."
"Rudolf Schmolck, who was enrolled as an Associate of the Institute during the year 1925, died May 5,1926, in Chicago. Mr. Schmolck was born in Germany in 1892, and was educated at the University of Heidelberg and the University of Berlin. Since December 1923 he had been employed by the Automatic Electric Co. of Chicago as a research engineer."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil. Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 89th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter; or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"In spite of the great development within the last few years of devices for the protection of electrical apparatus against lightning and the vast improvement in the insulation of transmission lines, this source of disturbance still remains one of the most serious threats against continuity of service in our large overhead systems. In perfecting remedies, or preventatives, it is highly desirable to know the cause and nature of the attack of lightning on the line, for it is on the transmission line rather than in the station, that interruptions to service usually occur."
"Lewis Buckley Stillwell, the twenty-second president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, was born in Scranton, Penn., March 12, 1863. He prepared for college at the Scranton High School;matriculated at Wesleyan University in the class of 1886; transferred to Lehigh University at the end of his sophomore year and completed the course in Electrical Engineering at that institution in 1885, following this by special work in mechanical engineering during the next academic year."
"The advantage of valve type arresters for high-voltage, power-system protection is briefly discussed. The theory of the autovalve arrester is given."
"Up to the present time it has seldom been necessary to design busses for carrying capacity above 2000 or 3000 amperes. Within the last few years we have passed this mark, and we shall soon be required to design busses for very much larger capacities. For simple geometrical designs there are formulas from which we may calculate the capacities of large busses. These simple designs cannot be easily mounted, and for this reason we must resort to styles which are easier to construct. These types cannot be calculated readily by the mathematics available to the ordinary engineer. This paper is presented with the idea of giving a ready reference for determining bus capacities without involved calculations. Curves are given showing the carrying capacity of a few types which are proposed as standards, and, in addition, a few curves compiled from tests showing the distribution of current in busses to show the necessity of this type of design. By a little careful study of these curves, the average designer may quickly choose the type of bus which will best meet his requirements for carrying capacity and allowable space. All busses are designed, on the basis of 30 deg. cent. temperature rise, and their ratings may be proportionately increased if the conditions warrant a 40 deg. temperature rise."
"It is shown that railway motor band losses are of appreciable magnitude, sometimes sufficiently large to be detrimental to the cooling of the machine. By tests of a small machine checked against those of a large one, the band losses are found to vary according to the 1.7 power of the frequency and from the. 1.35 to the 1.8 power of the induction, depending on the width and type of band. These losses are shown to be due chiefly to the change in the radial component of the flux as the band passes by the pole tip. For average bands, about 15 per cent of the losses (hysteresis and eddy) are due to the tangential flux in the bands. A typical set of curves is shown for calculating band losses."
"Editor's Note. The following article was prepared by Mr. Newbury in July and was first published in the September issue of The Electric Journal. It has been revised in some minor respects to bring it up to date and is published here in order to extend the knowledge of the new Institute Standards to a still wider circle of engineers."
"A usual method of calculating a transmission line with transformers, in which the voltage is held constant at both ends by synchronous condensers, is to use the circle diagram method. It is often advisable to use “over-compounded” voltage instead of constant voltage; that is, to increase the voltage as the load increases. Methods of calculation are given in this paper for two cases, first with over-compounded generator voltage and constant receiver voltage, in which case the diagram is a circle, and second, with over-compounded voltage at both generator and receiver, in which case the diagram is an ellipse. Examples are given and the diagrams are shown in Fig. 2. A short discussion is given of the advantages and limitations of using over-compounded voltage."
"The properties of a unit length of single, straight conductor, far removed from all other circuits, are investigated to endeavor to find whether such a unit is a basic, fundamental one, on which deductions and a method of mathematical treatment could be based, as was advocated by. Ampere, to supplement (not to replace) the Maxwell system based on a complete circuit, and to test the correctness of some of the postulates now in common use, based on the latter system. By several new, simple, and direct proofs based only on a few well-established and accepted relations, chiefly the internal stresses in a conductor, but excluding infinities, self-inductances, induction, and any postulates, a constant is deduced for the energy stored by a current in such a unit length, which seems to be one of the most fundamental, basic constants in electrodynamics, from which many useful deductions can be made, some of which are given. This energy of the flowing current corresponds to the m v2/2 energy of moving masses. Some of the results differ from those which have been in use; explanations are offered of the cause of these differences, and it is shown how the results may be brought into agreement, involving some changes in our previous conceptions. It is shown that with flux lines a distinction ought to be made which is analogous to that which distinguishes the wattless ampere from the one in phase, or between a true resistance and an impedance; it is shown why what might be called wattless flux, ought to be recognized. It is shown that self-inductance is used in two senses which may sometimes lead to different results, and that a distinction should therefore be made between them somewhat analogous to that between resistance and impedance or reactance. This it is believed would clear up the ambiguity now existing in that term. It is believed that some of these results could not have been obtained from the Maxwell complete circuit system, which rather leads one away from them."
"When a body is being heated by a uniform addition of a constant quantity of heat per unit time, its temperature above the ambient air (the latter being assumed to remain at a constant temperature) increases approximately according to an exponential law. The exponent is proportional to the ratio between the heat capacity of the body and the coefficient of thermal dissipation into the surrounding medium. In a paper read before the Institute's Midwinter Convention, 1925, (JOURNAL, Vol. 44, p. 142) Doctor A. E. Kennelly has proposed to include such a coefficient among other characteristics of an electrical machine. In the present paper it is pointed out that for thermal purposes an electrical machine cannot be considered as a single body, since the stator consists of two metal bodies (the winding and the core) between which there may be a considerable heat interchange, and that the rotor is also such a composite body. Differential equations of heat flow in a combinational body are established and solved. The stator winding is thermally determined by its heat capacity and its heat dissipation coefficient, and so is the stator core; further, there is a coefficient of mutual flow. The rotor also requires five similar coefficients. Thus, while an electrical machine could be defined by its thermal coefficients, and the temperature rise of the different parts predicted for a given operating regime, the number of required parameters is much larger than for a single body."
"FOR a good many years past, I have made use of an analytic method, of solving alternating-current problems, requiring simple algebra only. Inquiry appears to indicate that it has not heretofore appeared in print, or been used by others. For most purposes, it appeals to me more than any of the usual methods. With the thought that it may make a similar appeal to others, the bases of it and a few simple applications by way of illustration are given in what follows."
"The study of high-voltage, steep-wave-front transients is difficult from the experimental standpoint because of the very short times involved. Due to the improvement which the cathode-ray oscillograph has enjoyed in recent years, a device is now available, by the use of which transients occuring in times as short as one-millionth of a second or less may be photographed. In the paper, the authors used an oscillograph developed by Dufour in France, with which a brief study was made of the time lag of needle gaps and of a needle to a plane. A description of the oscillograph is given including a discussion of the method of operation. The photographic film is placed inside the tube so that the electrons impinge directly on the film. The wave is drawn out along a time axis by the combined action of a sweeping motion and a perpendicular oscillating motion imparted to the electron stream by the action of proper electromagnetic fields. Tests were made with a wave which was nearly perpendicular, reaching its maximum in about one microsecond. Such a wave was obtained by the discharge of a condenser through a suitable circuit. An oscillogram which shows the wave front used is given, and attention is directed to the 20,800 kilocycle oscillation which appears superimposed on the wave front. The results of tests in which this wave front was applied to gaps are given and it is shown that with any given gap setting and sparking voltage that the time lags vary through wide limits. It is also shown that, for the same voltage, increased gap settings mean increased lag. The per cent over voltage, required to keep the lag to two microseconds or less, decreases as the gap spacing increases."
"Percy H. Thomas: This paper appears to clear away definitely the persistent suspicions that there is some source of mysterious overpotential inherent in 220 kv. or in very long lines, that does not appear on the surface — something involving an unrecognized principle and jeopardizing reliability of service."
"C. E. Carey. It seems to me that the authors have laid down a premise which at this time I would like to question, whether or not it is the fundamental premise of this paper."
"R. E. Cunninghams I have particularly noted the first paragraphs of Mr. Hood's paper regarding the necessity of thoroughly grounding secondaries and I want Mr. Hood to know that I concur with him in his statements."
"R. W. Sorensen: Professor Ryan says, “There are two varieties of electrons, positive and negative.” On this he can find much authority; in fact in his book, “The Electron,” Dr. Millikan speaks of positive and negative electrons, but I much prefer in this particular to follow the practise of those who define the electron by saying it is a cathode particle such as is found in the cathode rays. I choose this path of thinking about electrons because we all know something about cathode rays. These rays have been found to be made up of negatively changed particles, and the particles are called electrons."
"R. W. Sorensen: When I first saw the diagram of connections shown in this paper I was awed by the apparent amount of large apparatus necessary to construct such a wattmeter. However, I have had the opportunity to stop at Professor Ryan's laboratory and became acquainted with the equipment described in this paper. An acquaintance with the equipment eliminated the impression of bigness which I had received from the diagram and which was perhaps due partly to the high voltages which the equipment will measure. In place of this impression I received a definite picture of the cleverness exhibited by Mr. Carroll and Professor Ryan in handling this problem. For example, the transformer of three windings and a split core, which seems in the diagram to be so large, is actually very small, in fact, it can easily be held in one hand."
"R. R. Cowles: The present tendency of the Pacific Gas & Electric Company is toward the use of small series street-lighting loops with incandescent lamps only. These series loops are 6.6-ampere and are supplied from a multiple-series constantcurrent transformer installed on the pole in the same manner as any other distribution transformer. These constant-current transformers are of the moving-coil type, fundamentally similar to those formerly used inside of stations. In size they range from 5 to 20 kw. each, depending upon the average size of the series incandescent lamps which are connected to the circuit. It is the aim to avoid long loops and to restrict the number of lamps per circuit to approximately 60."
"F. O. McMillan: There are two questions I wish to ask. Mr. Cunningham states he is using some three-phase, Y-Y-connected transformers; are these core-type or shell-type and if shell-type, has any provision been made for the third-harmonic magnetizing currents in the transformers so connected?"
"L. N. Robinson: Professor Magnusson emphasizes the point that engineering courses should teach students to think if nothing more. If that is so, why do engineering curriculums, in general, not include courses in the mental sciences, particularly logic and allied subjects? However, it is not my present purpose to argue for or against the inclusion of any particular subject in the curriculums. What should be pointed out is that present conditions indicate a general lack of scientific treatment in the design of engineering curriculums as well as in their application."
"P. H. Thomas: The paper by Doherty and Dewey emphasizes even more than those of previous date the part played by the terminal apparatus in stability of operation. Of course, it matters not what the electrical equations show as to the theoretical capacity of a long line if when terminal apparatus be applied to supply power and receive load the combination is unstable to operate, as might easily be the case with loads anywhere nearly approaching the theoretical capacity of the line should the usual present designs of synchronous apparatus be used."
"For some twenty years or more the advantages of frosting an incandescent lamp on the inside of the bulb have been appreciated by illuminating engineers but until recently no satisfactory method had been devised whereby this frost may be applied to the inside of the lamp without at the same time greatly weakening the structure of the bulb."
"To most of us, the high school physics courses of today are removed somewhat from our general trend of thought. Nevertheless, let us consider them for the moment. They are essentially the same as they were some years ago — fair enough, perhaps, in some branches of physics since Archemedies' principle, Charles' and Boyles' laws, Newton's laws of motion and the like, are fundamental truths which will never change as far as we are concerned. But what about these chapters in the physics texts which deal with light — that visiongiving wave motion by means of which we are able to see what goes on about us?"
"The National Nominating Committee of the Institute met at Institute headquarters, New York, December 3, and selected a complete official ticket of candidates for the Institute offices that will become vacant August 1, 1926."
"Mr. Chesney, official nominee for the office of President of the Institute, was born in Selingsgrove, Pa., October 28, 1863, and was graduated from the Pennsylvania State College in 1885. After teaching mathematics and chemistry for three years he became associated with Mr. William Stanley's laboratory at Great Barrington, Mass., and was one of the original incorporators of the Stanley Electric Manufacturing Company, of Pittsfield, Mass., which developed the well-known S K C polyphase system (Stanley-Kelly-Chesney). Mr. Chesney was vice-president and chief engineer of the Stanley Company from 1904 to 1906, and in the latter year he became chief engineer and manager of the Pittsfield Works of the General Electric Company, which had acquired the Stanley Company. Mr. Chesney has served as Manager and Vice-President of the A. I. E. E., and also upon various committees. He is also a member of various other scientific and engineering organizations. The Edison Medal was awarded to Mr. Chesney in 1921 “for early developments in alternating-current transmission.”"
"A variety of excellent papers will be presented at the Midwinter Convention which will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, February 8–11, 1926. The entertainment and social features as well as the inspections will be thoroughly enjoyable."
"The Regional Meeting idea has worked out so successfully in the Institute that three, and possibly five, of these meetings will be held during the year 1926. Meetings will be held in Cleveland, Niagara Falls, and Madison, Wis., during the first half of the year; and possibly in New York and Kansas City during the latter half."
"Latest Design and Practise in Power Plants, by Vern E. Alden, Consolidated Gas, Elee. Lt. & Pr. Co. Lorimer Hall, Tremont Temple. Joint meeting with A. S. M. E. January 14."
"At a meeting of the New York Electrical Society to be held in the Auditorium, Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., at 8.15 p. m. on the evening of Wednesday, January 6th, 1926, Mr. S. M. Kintner, Manager of Research Dept., Westingthouse Elee. &Mfg. Co., will give an instructive talk on “Long Distance Radio Broadcasting.” Short wave length broadcasting is in a very active stage of development and Mr. Kintner is particularly qualified to describe the most recent accomplishments. The talk will be accompanied by some unusually interesting and unique experiments and demonstrations. All interested in this meeting are cordially invited to be present as the guests of the Society."
"The American Society of Civil Engineers will hold its seventythird Annual Meeting beginning January 20, 1926, in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, N. Y. The general arrangement so popular in the past will be followed, with business sessions and honorary awards Wednesday morning; reports of the Society's committees Wednesday afternoon; meeting of the Technical Division throughout Thursday and an all-day excursion on Friday, the 22nd."
"The Edison Medal for the year 1925 has been awarded by the Edison Medal Committee of the Institute to Dr. Harris J. Ryan, Professor of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University, California, “for his contributions to the science and the art of hightension transmission of power.”"
"A convention of the radio engineers will be held in New York, January 18–19, 1926, when the Institute of Radio Engineers holds its Annual Meeting in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street. Important technical papers will be presented and discussed by engineers prominent in the profession; there will be organized trips of inspection to large radio factories and broadcasting stations, and the convention will close with a banquet at which many of the foremost radio engineers and executives of the country will deliver addresses on up-to-the-minute radio topics."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, December 11, 1925."
"Section 1. General Principles Upon Which Temperature Limits are Based in the Rating of Electrical Machinery and Apparatus."
"The Annual Convention and Road Show of the American Road Builders' Association will be held in Chicago, January 11–15, 1926. Sessions will be held for the discussion of varying problems in connection with trafile regulation, highway design and construction, with an innovation this year of a division of these meetings into two sections — one for the investigation of traffic and engineering problems contingent to the cause, and the other for points of interest on the side of construction. Men nationally representative for each subject on the program will address the meetings and these addresses will be followed by open, general discussion."
"An event of interest to engineers and chemists generally will take place at the Academy of Music, Brooklyn, N. Y., on January 13th, 1926, when Doctor Parke Rexford Kolbe will be installed as the new president of the Polytechnic Institute. Doctor Charles Alexander Richmond, president of Union College, will deliver the principal address of the evening; the presentation of the charter, seal and keys will be made by Charles E. Potts, of the class of 1892,. now chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Polytechnic Institute. Other speakers of the evening will be Doctor William H. Nichols, chairman of the Board of the General Chemical Company, and for many years chairman of the Corporation of the Polytechnic Institute; Doctor George S. Collins, senior member of the faculty, and Bancroft Gherardi, chief engineer of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Official delegates from colleges, universities and societies have been invited to attend and acceptances received indicate an attendance of a noteworthy number of prominent men from all parts of the country; among them Robert Lincoln Kelley, executive secretary of the Association of American Colleges; George B. Pegram, president of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education; W. E. Wickenden, director of Investigation for the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education; H. Foster Bain, secretary of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; Robert Ridgway, American Society of Civil Engineers; Elmer E. Brown, Chancellor, New York University; Charles C. Mierow, president of the Colorado College; General James G. Harbord, Kansas State Agricultural College, Col. R. C. Langdon, West Point; Arthur M. Greene, Jr., Engineering Foundation; Palmer C. Ricketts, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and Allen Hazen, University of New Hampshire. A reception for the official delegates will be held at the conclusion of the academic exercises."
"Announcements of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Power problems in industrial plants were discussed at a meeting held in Boston, December 10 and 11, by the Affiliated Technical Societies of Boston of which the A. I. E. E. Section is a member. The papers presented were Sources and Utilization of Coal, by F. H. Daniels, Sanford-Riley Stoker Company; Supply and Utilization of Fuel Oil, by E. H. Peabody, Peabody Engineering Corp.; Diesel Engines for New England Power Plants, by J. F. Hecking, Worthington Pump and Machinery Corp.; Possibilities of Obtaining Power from Public-Service Corporations, by L, R. Nash, Stone & Webster, Inc.; Power for Textile Mills, by C. T. Main, Consulting Engineer; Power for the Paper Industry, by J. A. Warren, S. D. Warren Company; The Utilization of Power in the Typical New England Plant, by K. D. Hamilton, Geo. E. Keith Company; The Advantages and Disadvantages of High-Pressure Steam in Industrial Plants, by Joseph Pope, Stone & Webster, Inc.; Utilization of Extraction Steam, by E. A. Dickinson, General Electric Company; The Supply of Industrial Power, by W. H. Larkin, Jr., U.S. Rubber Company; The Coal Situation, by E. C. Hultman, Chairman of Special Commission (Mass.) on the Necessaries of Life; Household Heating, by H. R. Linn, American Radiator Company."
"The Sterling Fellowship has been established by a gift of one million dollars from the John W. Sterling Estate, “to stimulate scholarship and advanced research in fields of knowledge.” While a Yale University fellowship, this is open to all approved colleges and universities both here and abroad, — men and women — whether graduate students, instructors or professors who desire to carry on studies and research under the direction of the Graduate Faculty of Yale University in affiliation therewith. Applications should be addressed to the Dean of the Graduate School, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, on blanks supplied by him. Junior prior to March 1 and Senior Fellowships by April 1."
"On November 7, the annual Alumni Homecoming Day, the Student Branch at the Pennsylvania State College presented an electrical show in the laboratories of the two Electrical Engineering Buildings. The exhibits which were designed and prepared by the members of the Branch proved of great interest to the thousands who visited the show."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. LUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"The rapid growth of the Institute during the last few years has necessarily more directly affected the work of the Board of Examiners than that of any other group engaged in A. I. E. E. activities. Forty-two hundred applications were considered during the year ending April 30, 1926, of which one hundred and forty-four were direct admissions and two hundred and fifty-six were transfers to the grade of Member or Fellow. Each of these latter four-hundred cases were reviewed through the careful examination of the complete professional records as submitted by the applicants and the weighing of the statements of the references. Many cases are of course easily disposed of because of the unquestionable eligibility of the applicants to the grades for which the applications are made. The Examiners have found, however, that there is a considerable group, composed of doubtful cases, and it is this group that requires a large part of the Board's time. Many of these cases are doubtful apparently through the failure of the applicants to devote sufficient time and effort to the submission of their records and references."
"John J. Carty, pioneer in the development of the telephone art since 1879, was the twenty-eighth president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, through the term 1915–1916."
"The unfortunate condition of agriculture in comparison with the exceptional prosperity of other industries in this country in recent years, has called forth many suggested remedies, among which are various bills now before Congress. Prosperity, however, cannot be obtained by legi station except as it may remove obf stacles, and the seasonal character of agriculture and the fact that the farmer buys his supplies at prevailing high prices and sells his product in a competitive low market are facts that cannot be legislated away."
"During the past five or six years, practically all of the American cable manufacturers have made some changes in their impregnating compound to produce cable having a low dielectric loss. In a number of cases, these compounds were not well chosen. During the same period, some of the operating companies have reduced the thickness of their insulation, resulting in increased dielectric stresses. In a number of cases the compounds, and perhaps also the paper that was used, developed faults that were more serious than high dielectric loss. Some cables have been very deficient in dielectric strength and others have developed a new type of trouble which has been termed “ionization;” after a comparatively short time, the operating voltage of such cable had to be materially reduced or the cable replaced, in order to keep the lines in service. The cable manufactured during this period has generally passed, with a wide margin, the high-voltage tests required by the specifications. Occasionally a lot of cable which passes these tests by a narrow margin will be shipped by a manufacturer and, in such cases, the service record of the cable is unsatisfactory. The investigations which form the basis of this paper consist of, (a) laboratory tests to determine what high-voltage tests cable, known to be of good quality, will withstand; as well as similar tests on other grades of cable, (b) A careful examination and dissection of samples of the cable as received from the factory and samples removed from lines which have failed in service or which have been in service for a number of years without failure, (c) A comparison of the operating records of the cable with the results of the dissection and examination of the samples and with the factory inspection and tests made on the cable before shipment, (d) Accelerated life tests on long samples of cable having a wide range in quality. The results of these investigations have been correlated in a manner which permits of the determination of the relative quality of several lots of cable purchased, as well as changes in the specifications which must be made in order to secure satisfactory high tension cable with impregnated paper insulation."
"The first five items in Tables I and II can be considered under the general heading of workmanship. The information for calculating the values for these items was secured from the factory inspection reports and by examination of samples of cable taken from the ends of sections as received or from the middle of the sections whenever possible. Further information was obtained from time to time by the examination of samples of cable taken from sections removed on account of failures in service or other causes."
"OF the various component parts entering into electrical systems of all characters, the insulation is the least susceptible to exact computation and design. In few, if any cases of even simple and pure materials are the dielectric properties, resistivity, dielectric strength, specific inductive capacity, either constant or uniform; and in the cases of composite and fabricated insulations of manufacture the variations are extremely wide. As results, in all cases liberal factors of safety to cover the worst probable conditions must be allowed, resulting further in increased size and cost, and in undesirable magnitudes of other properties, such as dielectric loss and phase difference, volume and surface conductivity, circuit capacity and conductance, etc. Little if any attempt has been made to control the inherent characteristics of simple dielectrics, or to study their influence in combinations. Physicists appear to have all but forgotten the unsolved problems of dielectric behavior, or perhaps to have given them up. The control of manufactured insulation appears to be limited to heat treatment, principally for the purpose of elimination of moisture — a sufficiently important object — and to the obtaining of pure raw materials. Studies of the properties of these materials in their bearing on those of the composite final form of the insulation have not appeared in any quantity."
"In a previous paper, the writers developed the equations for the main errors in the quadrant electrometer for the measurement of power factor, and checked their equations experimentally, the main sources of error being the unavoidable shunting capacity to ground of the test specimens and the charging current from the electrometer needle to the quadrants. In the present paper methods of experimental compensations and elimination of these sources of error are described. Methods of compensation for capacity to ground have been presented before, and in this paper merely some additional refinements are given. The method of compensation for errors due to the charging current in, the needle circuit is believed to be new; the method is described herein, the equation is derived in full, and an experimental check is given of the accuracy of the equation."
"The choice of a proper protection tube for a thermocouple is nearly as important as the selection of the material for the couple. One of the most important properties of such a tube is low porosity to gases, since furnace gases usually attack the couple.1 There are three general methods of attaining this low porosity: (a) By burning a refractory tube to a very high temperature (3000 deg. fahr.); (b) by adding a flux (such as feldspar) to a refractory body causing it to vitrify at a considerably lower temperature (2550 deg. to 2700 deg. fahr.); and (c) by coating a refractory body, which is not burned at a temperature sufficiently high to vitrify it, with an impervious glaze."
"The United States Bureau of Standards has recently completed a flat surface which it claims has a deviation of one-ten-millionth of an inch of being perfectly flat. This is made out of quartz and will be available to American industry generally for test purposes. It is predicted that it will make for more accuracy of the development of intricate mechanical instruments employed in many manufacturing processes especially in the construction of machinery."
"The paper shows that the striking phenomena of short-wave radio transmission (i.e., below 60 meters) can be quantitatively accounted for on a simple electron refraction theory in which the effect of the earth's magnetic field and electron collisions may be neglected as a first approximation. The distribution and number of electrons per unit volume in the upper atmosphere required on this theory to account for the meager experimental data appear to be in general accord with the values required in the explanation of the diurnal variations of the earth's magnetic field, aurorae and long-wave radio transmission. The paths taken by the waves from an antenna to distant points on the surface of the earth are calculated. The path calculations give a definite picture of the now familiar skip distance effects. Ideal signal intensity curves (i.e., neglecting absorption and scattering) are given, which show how the energy sent out by a transmitter is distributed over the surface of the earth. A focussing of energy just beyond the skip distance, and again just inside the point where the ray tangent to the ground at the transmitter comes back to earth is clearly shown. The reflection of waves at the surface of the earth is also considered. The results of these calculations make it possible to estimate the most suitable wave lengths for night and day communication between any two points on the earth's surface. It is also pointed out that there will be a minimum wave length, in the vicinity of 10 meters, below which long distance communication becomes impossible. It is shown that from the point of view of long distance communication low angle radiation is most effective. The ray paths and energy flux density in the wave front of the sky waves are independent of the plane of polarization of the transmitter. The effects of polarization on the reception problem are not discussed."
"The sites for two plants of the Ours River hydroelectric scheme, are to be such that one plant will be in Germany and the other just across the border in Luxemburg. At the point where the dam is to be built, the valley is narrow and the conditions favorable. The dam will be 106 meters high, and the average flow is 30 cubic meters per second. The impounded water will back up a distance of 28 kilometers, and flood 20 square kilometers, as well as six towns. In order to obtain more water than the Ours River itself supplies, water will be carried by pipe line from the Kyll River at Birresborn (elevation 335) to the Prum River (elevation 325) at Waxweiler, thence to the Irsen River (elevation 318) and finally to the Ours River. Water will also be drawn from the Sauer River."
"There has been developed recently a nickel-iron alloy called hypernik which has especially low hysteresis loss and high permeability at low inductions. Due to these properties the material is particularly suitable for the cores of current transformers. A ring-type series transformer with a core of hypernik has approximately one-third of the ratio and phase-angle errors exhibited by a similar transformer having a core of ordinary silicon steel. The relative performance of transformers with cores of the two kinds of material are shown by test and by calculation for various burdens and ratios. The minimum ratio for which satisfactory performance can be obtained with a through-type transformer having a hypernik core is about 200 to 5. This new material is relatively expensive but its use will undoubtedly be warranted for certain applications."
"The Joint Congressional Committee on Muscle Shoals has decided to recommend acceptance of the bid of the Muscle Shoals Fertilizer Company and the Muscle Shoals Power Distributing Company. The terms of the proposal submitted by the above bidders have been written into House Bill 11602 which is awaiting action in the House of Representatives. It is also understood that the acceptance of this proposal has the approval of the President and the Secretary of War."
"Institute literature is apparently lacking in information regarding retardation tests. The purpose of this paper is to point out certain advantages of the method and to describe the procedure followed in testing the Niagara generators. The basis of the method is first given with the fundamental formula upon which it depends. Since it requires the use of the moment of inertia, or “fly-wheel effect” W. R2, methods of determining this value are given, and it is pointed out that it can be determined by test. The methods of determining the speed of rotation and its rate of change are given, with a description of the devices used for automatically recording the necessary data and the method of interpreting such data. It is shown how the determination of losses over a range of speeds increases the accuracy of the determinations. General methods of testing are described, with a connection diagram and an outline of the necessary precautions. The detail procedure for tests for different losses is given. It is shown how this method of test furnishes data for the separation of the friction from the windage. The division of mechanical losses between generator and turbine in a specific case is also described. The procedure in determining the electrical losses from the test data is given and some observations made regarding the apparent desirability of the further refinement of the method."
"The paper presents a brief description of the methods of measuring dielectric power loss and power factor in commercial use at the Electrical Testing Laboratories. The several methods are handled individually and their advantages and disadvantages listed. Appendixes are included on the use of the shunted electro-dynamometer as an ammeter, determination of compensation, effect of incorrect compensation in the wattmeter shunt, effect of slightly unbalanced voltages on three-phase measurements, a three-phase wattmeter switch and shielding, grounding, etc."
"A set of sag formulas is presented, in the form of convergent series which give accurately the results of the hyperbolic catenary formulas. The series are useful for calculating almost any practical transmission line span, long or short. Trial and error methods are not used. First, the sag or deflection is calculated for a given maximum tension in the cable. Then, changes in temperature corresponding to changes in deflection and loading are computed. This procedure is followed whether the supports are at equal heights or at unequal heights. A formula is presented for the deflection from the line joining the supports, when the elevations are unequal. This is useful in sighting from tower to lower, as shown in Fig. 2. A few examples are worked out and some derivations of formulas are given. In the last appendix instructions are given with regard to allowing for the change in weight per ft. with change in length of cable."
"The lighting of public streets was originally a private undertaking, and the first city ordinance was passed in London in 1414, requiring all citizens to hang lamps before their doors at dark. Municipal street lighting originated in 1558 in Paris. Oil-burning lamps were used till 1813, when gas was adopted. In London electric street Eghting is a development of the last forty years."
"H. B. Dwigtht: Usually it is found undesirable to place copper straps across lines of magnetic flux, but they should be placed parallel to the magnetic field as much as possible. Accordingly, where the phases are separated, I should suggest placing the straps parallel to the sides of an equilateral triangle, as in Fig. 1 of this discussion. If arrangement has not been tried out, it should be tested in comparison with the arrangements shown in Fig. 6 of the paper."
"A. E. Kennellys The paper is very timely and interesting because so much attention has been drawn in recent months, not to say years, to the marvelous properties of very short waves. The paper makes a definite and very reasonable attempt to explain some of those properties. The direct wave dies out at a relatively short distance from the sending station and then nothing more is heard of it or received from it until it has traveled a relatively great distance. That phenomenon repeats itself at least once."
"L. F. Morehouses This work on the development of arrangements for secretly transmitting telegrams was done during the War under the direction of Mr. Gherardi. The problem was to see if a simple and effective means that would be entirely secret could be devised for handling telegraph business. The method used should be such that an enemy could not decipher the messages even if he could capture the mechanism used, thoroughly understand its operation, and obtain contact with the line circuits."
"S. L. Henderson: This paper covers the results of a considerable amount of experimental work done subsequent to the papers written in 1 9 2 4 by Mr. Fechheimer and Mr. Bratt. As the later tests were made on stationary models, the constants could be determined more accurately than on a moving model, and the accuracy of the equations is demonstrated in the comparison between tests and calculations as given in Figs. 1 3 and 14. The results of this work are being used in the design of turbine generators with considerable practical benefit. On one design, in particular, it was possible to shorten the machine considerably through the use of these equations."
"J. J. Smith: When considering the effect of harmonics, it is perhaps well to divide them into different classes: (1) those which may give rise to resonant conditions or large circulating currents on the power circuit, (2) those which may give rise to telephone interference, (3) those which may give rise to radio interference, (4) those which may give rise to any other type of trouble that may be discovered. Let us consider, for instance, the case of telephone interference, as somewhat similar remarks will apply to other types of interference. In the telephone-interferencefactor meter an attempt was made to weight the various harmonics in accordance with the experimental data available as to the interfering effed; of each harmonic. A special type of network was designed to do this, and the impedance characteristics of such a network, which is used in the telephone-interferencefactor meter, can be varied, within certain limits at least, to correspond with any new data which may show that it is desirable to weight the harmonics differently. In the method suggested by Messrs. Doggett, Heim, and White, no such adjustment is possible."
"K. B. McEachrom The comparison made by Dr Slepian between the energy to be handled by the valve-type arrester and the arc-resistance type for equal protection is important. With the arc type, if the flow of system energy following the impulse is not to be excessive; it is necessary to employ considerable series resistance with the result that the arrester's ability to discharge the impulse is seriously impaired. To prevent system current from following the discharge of an impulse through an arrester, it is necessary that the voltage across the arrester, as the impulse ceases, be equal to or greater than the system crest voltage. The modern valve-type arresters are designed to operate on this principle."
"A. E. Kennelly: Turning to the paper by Dawes and Hoover, it seems to me that the great force of that contribution lies in the fact that a bridge has been developed which employs a vibration galvanometer, with all the delicacy and precision that the vibration galvanometer affords, so that instead of having to employ a relatively great length of cable dielectric for test, it is sufficient to have only, say, a couple of meters, provided that the particular couple of meters shall represent fairly well, the whole length of a cable under consideration."
"By Committee on Production and Application of Light"
"A wide variety of technical subjects, the choice of a charming location, and enjoyable recreational features mark the program for the Annual Convention of the A. I. E. E. which will be held at The Greenbrier, White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., June 21–25, 1926."
"As we go to press with this issue of the JOURNAL, the Regional Meeting of the A. I. E. E. at Niagara Falls, N. Y., is convening for its first session. The number of early arrivals registered indicates an unusually good attendance, and the diversified program and excellent weather conditions which prevail presage a most interesting and enjoyable time for both the indoor and outdoor features of the meeting. The program was published in full in the May JOURNAL and preliminary copies have been mailed to all the membership in the eastern part of the United States. A complete account of this meeting will appear in the July JOURNAL."
"The first regional meeting of the Great Lakes District of the Institute was held in Madison, Wis., May 6 and 7, with headquarters in the Hotel Loraine. It was most enjoyable and instructive to the one hundred eighty who attended. There were three well attended technical sessions, a regional dinner, and a number of interesting trips."
"A convention of enrolled students of the Northeastern District of the A. I. E. E. was held at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., on May 7. The meeting, which was arranged by a student committee assisted by the Boston Section, had an attendance of one hundred sixty. There were three technical papers presented and a number of inspection trips were made. A banquet was also given."
"A meeting was held on May 13 in Louisville, Kentucky to consider the advantages of establishing a local Section of the Institute in that city. Some sixteen A, I. E. E. members were present and listened to an interesting talk on the value of local Sections given by W. E. Mitchell of the Alabama Power Company, Vice-President of the A. I. E. E. from the Southern District. It was decided that the establishing of a local Section in Louisville would be a distinct advantage to every one concerned and a committee was appointed to complete the formalities and present a report at a meeting to be held in September. Those named on the committee were, E. D. Wood, Operating Electrical Engineer, Louisville Gas & Electric Co. and D. C. Jackson, Jr., Professor of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering at the University of Louisville."
"Cummings C. Chesney, Manager and Chief Engineer, General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass., has been elected President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the year beginning August 1, 1926, as announced in the report of the Committee of Tellers published elsewhere in this issue."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, May 21,1926."
"The annual report of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was presented at the annual business meeting of the Institute held in New York Friday evening, May 21."
"The Twenty-Ninth Annual Meeting of the American Society for Testing Materials will be held at Chalfonte-Haddon Hall, Atlantic City, N. J., June 21–25 inclusive. The program will be diversified including the following sessions: Tuesday morning Committee Meetings; afternoon, First Session, Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Magnetic Testing. Wednesday, June 23, (a. m.) Third Session, Steel; Fourth Session, Brick, Tile, Refractories and Fire Tests; Fifth Session, (p. m.), Edgar Marburg Lecture. Thursday, June 24, (a.m.), Sixth Session, Corrosion and Fatigue of Metals; Seventh Session, Road Materials, Waterproofing, Petroleum Products and Thermometers. Evening. Sessions, Non-Ferrous Metals and Metallography; Textiles, Rubber, Coal, Timber, Insulating Materials and Slate. Tenth Session, Symposium on Resin. Friday, June 25th, (a. m.), Eleventh Session, Preservative Coatings and Naval Stores; Twelfth Session, Cement, Lime, Gypsum and Nomenclature."
"The Twentieth Annual Convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society will be held at Spring Lake, N. J., from September 7–10, inclusive, with headquarters at the Essex aflid Sussex Hotel. The Essex and Sussex is ideally located directly on the ocean front, a short trip from New York and Philadelphia. It is beautifully appointed and enjoys a most enviable reputation for its service and cuisine."
"The annual business meeting of the Institute was held at the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Friday evening, May 21, 1926. President Pupin presided, and called upon National Secretary Hutchinson, who presented in abstract the annual report of the Board of Directors, printed copies of which had been distributed to members in attendance. (This report is referred to elsewhere in this issue)."
"Under the auspices of the American Engineering Standards Committee, an undertaking which will lead eventually to the standardization of scientific and engineering symbols and abbreviations has row been fairly launched. The sectional committee, which in its representation includes thirty-one trade, technical and scientific bodies, held its organization meeting January 21, 1926, societies taking the leading part in the work as sponsors being, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education. The secretary of the sectional committee, (Preston S. Millar, Electrical Testing Laboratories, 80th Street and East End Avenue, New York City) will be very glad to receive in cooperation any suggestions which interested organizations may care to make with regard to symbols and abbreviations to be adopted in the various fields of engineering and industry. Completion of the entire work will require the participation of many interests, it is the committee's present plan to concentrate upon the fields in which there is the greatest need of unification of standards, taking up further work as opportunity affords."
"Excepting a few guest instructors and special lecturers, none but members of the regular college teaching staff has been appointed to the facuhy for the summer courses this year at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, according to an announcement from the Pittsburg!, institution. The guest members of the faculty, it is further announced, will be on duty at various periods during the six weeks' courses for teachers from June 28 to August 6 in the College of Fine Arts. For the eight weeks' courses from June 4 to August 6 for undergraduates in the industrial and engineering courses, only members of the regular college faculty have been engaged."
"A gift of $100,000 has been made to the Engineering Foundation and the Engineering Societies Library by Edward Dean Adams, as announced by W. L. Saunders President of the United Engineering Society and Chairman of its endowment committee at a meeting of the Foundation the evening of May 19th when a dinner was held at i;he Union League, with Mr. Adams as guest of honor."
"At a recent meeting of the Robinson Fellowship Committee it was voted to recommend Mr. Herbert L. Rawlins of Fredericktown, Ohio, Senior in Electrical Engineering, for the award of the Stillman W. Robinson Fellowship for the year 1926–27."
"The second Steinmetz Lecture, entitled The Solution of Transient Phenomena by Elementary Mathematics was delivered by Dr. Ernst J. Berg, Professor of Electrical Engineering, Union University, at the meeting of the Schenectady Section on April 23. The Steinmetz Lectures are a series of annual addresses which was instituted last year by the Schenectady Section in honor of the late Dr. C. P. Steinmetz. The first address was given by Dr. M. I. Pupin in 1925. For the second lecture Dr. Berg selected a subject in which Dr. Steinmetz was deeply interested throughout his lifetime. The lecture was much appreciated by the 450 who were present. Copies of the address may be obtained from Institute headquarters, New York."
"Since the development of plans for this Commission, engineers generally have been interested because of a proposal to make prominent engineers from the District of Columbia and elsewhere, members. Under the provision of the Act at least one man would be appointed from the District of Columbia and as announced on May 19th at the White House engineers are pleased to find a prominent member of their profession, F. A. Delano, on the list of appointees. Other men prominent in the engineering architectural development of city planning appointed to the and Commission by the President, were:"
"The Visiting Committee of the Bureau of Standards met with Director Burgess at the Bureau on April 29th. This body is composed of five scientists appointed by the Secretary of Commerce and entrusted with the work of going over the policy of the Bureau from time to time to look into the status of scientific experimentations and outline new phases of investigation."
"Postmaster General New has authorized a special five cent postage as a memorial to John Ericsson, engineer, builder of the Monitor, according to an announcement at the Post Office Department under date of May 5th. It is understood that an issue of 15,000,000 of these stamps will be placed on sale first at New York City, Chicago, Minneapolis and Washington, on May 29th. The stamp is being released simultaneously with the unveiling of the John Ericsson Memorial Statue in Potomac Park, Washington, D. C, on May 29th."
"Frank W. Peek, Jr., consulting engineer of the General Electric Company in charge of the company's high voltage experimental laboratory at Pittsfield, Mass., was awarded the Levy gold medal by the Franklin Institute of Philadelphia. This award, founded by Louis Edward Levy, was given Mr. Peek in recognition of his paper presented a year ago before the institute on “High-Vol tage Phenomena.”"
"W. R. Marshall, formerly branch manager for the Westinghouse Company at Buffalo has been selected for new duties as District Manager, Pittsburgh, Pa."
"A list of names of members whose mail has been returned by the Postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Handbooks No. 6 and No. 7, giving Safety Rules for the Installation and Maintenance of Electrical Supply Stations and Electric Utilization Equipment, respectively, are now on distribution through the Bureau of Standards, Washington. Price 10 cents each. These are published in small 5-in. by 7-in. paper covered pamphlets No. 6 comprising Part I the Grounding Rules of the fourth edition of the National Electrical Safety Code, while No. 7 consists of Part III and the Grounding Rules of the fourth edition of the National Electrical Safety Code. Publication dates, February 5 and March 12, 1926, respectively. Address Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil. Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 89th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Technical meetings of the Institute are held primarily for the purpose of bringing to the attention of the membership, current developments in the electrical art and of affording an opportunity for the interchange of views on electrical subjects. Responsibility for accomplishing these objectives rests with the Meetings and Papers Committee."
"Calvert Townley, the thirty-second president of the Institute, 1919–1920, was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, Oct. 18, 1864. He prepared for college at Chickering Institute, that city, and was graduated from the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale in 1886. Returning there for a graduate course he received the degree of M. E. in 1888. A summer as a laborer helping to rebuild the burned station of the Brush Electric Light Co. of Cincinnati was followed by a seventeen year engagement with the Westinghouse Electric interests at Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Boston and New York. Starting as road engineer, or trouble man, and later becoming designer of distribution systems he was shortly transferred to the sales department. Here, although officially free from engineering duties, his inclination led him to study the technical problems, first of electric light then of power and finally of traction. He was active in the Niagara Falls development, the equipment of the Boston subways, the New York and Brooklyn elevated systems and the New York subway. In 1904, he went with the N. Y. N. H. & H. R. R. as acting fourth vice-president, to electrify their line out of New York. About that time this railroad began acquiring utility companies, (largely trolley lines) and Mr. Townley was appointed first vice-president of the holding company to manage their utilities as a side issue. The “side issue” soon reached such magnitude that after completing electrification plans and drawing specifications, Mr. Townley asked to be relieved of construction duties and became consulting engineer for the New Haven Railroad thereafter devoting most of his time to executive management of the utilities. In 1911 he renewed his former connection with the Westinghouse Company as assistant to the president a position which he now holds. During the latter period, he has served as president of the Lackawanna & Wyoming Valley Railroad, vice-president of the Niagara, Lockport & Ontario Power Co., vice-president of the South Philadelphia Co., vice-president of the International Radio Telegraph Company and officer or director of many other companies. He has toured Europe and South America in professional capacity. During the war he superintended the erection of a turbine factory near Philadelphia, the output being very largely used for the Federal Government merchant and naval vessels."
"Seven telephone channels and one telegraph channel on one single-conductor deep-sea cable have been made possible by the employment of carrier current on one of the two submarine cables across Catalina channel. This is the only application of carrier telephony to deep-sea cables; the system is the shortest carrier system (26 mi.) in commercial operation; it provides more separate carrier channels (six) than has been previously attempted; and it differs in other important respects from other systems. This paper describes this carrier-current system."
"A formula is derived for the temperature rise of the last contact point of a pair of separating electrodes. The relation of this to arcing at a switch, brush drop, and commutation, is discussed. Experiments on the interruption of current by a switch in vacuum are described."
"During the past three years Professor Vladimir Karapetoff has given talks on “Straight-Line Relativity in oblique coordinates” before several Institute Sections, as well as at some conventions of other societies, and has demonstrated his “blue and red” mechanical model of Einstein's fundamental relations. Institute members and readers of the JOURNAL will be interested to know that an article by Professor Karapetoff, containing a detailed elementary theory of restricted relativity in his oblique coordinates and a description of the model, has appeared in the August issue of the Journal of the Optical Society of America. Professor F. K. Richtmyer, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., is the feusiness Manager of the Journal; the price of single issues, as long as they last, is 60 cents."
"Making 7770 miles of railway in the United States safe against train collisions is no trivial task The accomplishment, as announced by the Interstate Commerce Commission July 28, marks the progress of the first quarter century of automatic train control in this country. This announcement registers the fact that after many years of heartbreaking experiment with all sorts of strange devices for stopping trains from running into danger, electricity has proved the only agency whereby this can do it. Hence the Commission has now given approval for train control schemes protecting 7770 track miles. How fast the Commission may order the rest of the country's mileage under automatic train control remains to be seen."
"The paper gives the results of a comprehensive study of the effect of transients on the size and appearance of Lichtenberg figures. Sixteen different rates of voltage rise were used, varying from about 20 minutes to 0.1 microsecond to reach a crest value of 25 kv. Results were obtained with transients the crest voltages of which ranged from 5 to 25 kv. The steeper wave fronts were checked with the Dufour cathode-ray oscillograph. Calibration curves are given, showing that the positive figure are not much affected by changes in wave front, while the negative gures vary considerably with changes in wave front, especially at the lower voltages. The positive figures are divided into three types according to their appearance which is found to depend on the rate of voltage rise. It is concluded that for most conditions the size of the positive figures will give a determination of the crest voltage of the applied transient to within approximately 25 per cent."
"On page 783 of the issue of the JOURNAL of the A. I. E. E. for August, 1926, there is an obituary notice of the late Charles E. Scribner, from which I quote as follows: “Mr. Scribner was a well-known electrical inventor, having taken out almost 500 patents during the course of his active service. After the death of Steinmetz, he was credited with holding more patents in the electrical field than any other man, save his friend, Thomas A. Edison,” etc., etc."
"The activities of this committee during the past year have been carried out on a plan of organization comprising a number of subcommittees as outlined in Mr. H. M. Hobart's report to the President and Board of Directors on the Development of the Activities of the A. I. E. E. Technical Committees under date of January 19, 1925. This report is under consideration by the Committee on Technical Activities to determine the advisability of recommending it in whole or in part for all of the technical committees. The scope of the Electrical Machinery Committee's activities has been based on the recommendation contained in a report made by Mr. A. W. Berresford as chairman of a Special Committee to Review Technical Activities of the A. I. E. E. under date of January 23,1924."
"Is steam power to outdistance water power for generating electric current in the Pacific Coast country where “white coal” is king? This tendency is noted by the Journal of Electricity in an editorial declaring that cheapness of oil fuel and 300-per cent advances in the efficiencies of steam generating machinery during the past decade indicate that steam power may prove the more economical even in the water-powered state of California. Only one-third of the electric energy used in the state is generated by steam today, while hydroelectric plants produce the balance but engineers are prophesying the ratio may soon be reversed."
"This paper describes tests made with a graphic recorder to show the vibration of transmission-line conductors under various conditions of wind velocity, conductor tension and span length. The method of taking the records is discussed. Formulas are given for determining the velocity of propagation of transverse waves along a conductor, the wave length of a vibration, and the frequency of vibrations caused by “eddies” formed at a conductor subjected to air currents."
"France has water-power resources which, under satisfactory conditions, are capable of producing the electric energy necessary for its economic advancement. A serious effort has been made to utilize these valuable natural resources, but unfavorable conditions for some years have impeded such efforts, and recent statistics on electric development show a marked decrease as compared with expected results. Although construction works begun during or subsequent to 1916 have been steadily continued and improvements have been made to the installations already in use, the carrying out of the greater part of new projects, for which plans were completed at the beginning of 1924, have been indefinitely postponed."
"This paper describes some of the more recent overhead and underground electricity transmission developments in Europe and is intended to convey a general ide`a of the status of that art in some of the European countries. No attempt has been made to include all the recent high-tension lines in the countries touched upon, but those included are typical of the work being done and the voltages in use. A most interesting part of the paper is a summary and analytit of the recent report of the Weir Commission of England recommending a policy with regard to superpower development in that country, This report covers a program extending to 1940 and proposes a plan of interconnection and base-load plant construction intended to tie together practically all parts of England."
"The paper describes the application of automatic equipment and supervisory control to a number of interesting hydroelectric installations. A brief description is first given of the operation of standard equipment, the function performed by it and the protective measures provided. Then several typical stations involving single units, multiple units, self-synchronizing and automatic synchronizing are described, together with some test results of the current surges occurring during the starting operations. The paper closes with some comments on the high-speed, synchronous relay type of supervisory control and remote metering."
"A large demand for modern electrical household appliances has recently been created in the Netherlands as a result of the activities of the municipal electric works at Amsterdam where American products are generally favored."
"Blondel treated salient pole machines by resolving the fundamental space component of m. m. f. along the two axes of symmetry the direct axis of the pole, and the quadrature axis between poles. Using this idea and applying harmonic analysis, Blondevs theory has been extended in the present paper to a comprehensive system of treatment in which the effect of harmonic m. m. fsy as well as the fundamental and also of field m. m. f. in the quadrature axis, as well as in the direct have been taken into account. It is shown that the “armature leakage flux” which causes reactance voltage drop in synchronous operation comprises all fluxes due to armature currents which generate fundamental voltage except the space fundamental component, the latter constituting the total flux of “armature reaction.” Impressing upon the variable air-gap permeance those space harmonics of m. m. f. which are due to the fundamental time component of current and which therefore rotate at various fractional speeds produces odd space harmonics of flux rotating at many different speeds and in opposite directions. Some of these listed in Table I produce fundamental voltage, but most of them generate time harmonics. The former, which are reactive voltages, are only those of the nth space order rotating at one nth speed that is, those which correspond in space order and speed to the harmonic m. m. fs. The corresponding reactances are definitely defined in Appendix C in terms of permeance coefficients, and means are outlined for quantitative determination of such coefficients from graphically constructed field plots. Although, strictly, there areas many field plots required as there are significant m. m.f. harmonics, an approximation, developed in Appendix B, is given in which only one plot is necessary, other permeance waves being derived therefrom. It is shown that only the average term and the second space harmonic of the permeance series affect the fundamental voltage. Hence, unless it is required to calculate the harmonic voltages, only those two terms of the permeance series need to be determined. In the application of the results, the fundamental voltages thus produced by the armature currents are superposed upon that due to current in the field winding, which latter has been previously treated. This gives the vector diagram, Fig. 19, from which the steady state relations are set down in equations. In Part II, the steady-state angle-power relations are developed, including an interpretation of the “reluctance term11 in the power or torque equation. In Appendix D, the vector diagram for salient pole machines is interpreted in terms of the well-known Potier diagram for cylindrical rotor machines. Also the effect of saturation both on anglepower relation and on the value of excitation required under load is discussed. Subsequent papers in the near future will present results which have been obtained from the application of the method and point of view here outlined to the solution of problems relating to abnormal operating conditions of synchronous machines."
"IN our present easy-going attitude toward language, we are tempted to use the word “research” to mean so many things that we have no word lef jt to mean research. The effort to sell a research program to industry has induced us to translate the word into such unmistakably practical terms as “in a word it is invention,” to quote a recent official pamphlet."
"A voltmeter is described for a-c. circuits the voltage indications of which are directly proportional to the maximum flux density, regardless of the wave shape of the voltage. While the instrument is suitable for many varieties of magnetic tests, its most important application is to the reduction of transformer coreloss measurements to sine-wave basis. Test data indicate excellent accuracy for the meter in this application in comparison with other schemes or outfits used at the present time for that purpose. Losses determined by this new meter are, in general, appreciably larger than those determined by the older methods. The new meter makes it unnecessary to use, for reliable results, large generators to reduce the wave distortion caused by transformer excitation loads, and permits the use of any generator that will carry the load thermally."
"STATED in broad and comprehensive terms, the primary responsibility of the engineering colleges is for the development of four groups of men; for engineering work namely,"
"The American Bureau of Welding, 29 West Thirtyninth Street, New York, N. Y., is planning an extensive investigation of welded steel structures. James H. Edwards, assistant chief engineer of the American Bridge Co., 71 Broadway, New York, N. Y., one of the directors of the American Bureau of Welding, is interested in this method of fabrication, which may have many advantages over riveting."
"C. O. Mailloux: This is another of the papers of the kind which, like one by Mr. Fortescue2 published some years ago and one by Mr. Rice3, written more recently, serves to advance our knowledge of ways and means of attacking problems that have baffled all others before these authors, and at the same time gives us very interesting evidence of the fact that the methods of mathematical treatment of previous generations say of the days of Maxwell, Kelvin, Mascart, Helmholtz, etc. are still capable of giving magnificent results. Mr. Fortescue, in an epoch-making paper, showed the valuable use that can be made of the principles of the potential energy function and of their application to the discussion of equipo ten tial surfaces, etc., as a means of mapping out the field of electric force around insulators that are subjected to high electrostatic stresses. Those who may have had doubts at that time in regard to the utility of the study of the potential function as a preparation for the analysis of phenomena in fields of force, and were disposed to look more sympathetically upon the more “modern” methods devised or elaborated by Bjerknes, Lorenz, and others, found that their fears in regard to the “staleness” of the older methods were not wholly well founded. What Mr. Fortescue did was, in a sense, an extension of Maxwell's work, and his diagrams of lines of electric force in electrostatic fields show at least a family resemblance to some given in Maxwell's treatise. Mr. Rice's able paper furnished further valuable evidence of the great usefulness of this method of attack on seemingly difficult problems of like character."
"B. F. Bailey: I should like to point out the use of the following formula"
"W. S. Clark t In connection with the figures given in Mr. Farmer's paper, one should not lose sight of the fact that there is no insulation of which we know in which the strength increases in direct proportion to the increased thickness of insulation"
"Wallace S. Oark: In connection with Mr. Del Mar's paper it should be remembered that the Pirelli idea is to keep in the cable, at all times, a pressure in excess of atmospheric pressure."
"D. C. Prince: There are, in general, two ways of regarding such waves as those set up by commutating devices whether of rotating or static character. Fig. 4, in Mr. Lennox's paper, is typical of the waves encountered. Such a wave may be regarded as made up of a series of constant-amplitude waves of different frequencies, as Mr. Lennox has done, or it may be regarded as a succession of simple states."
"R. L. Sanford: For the determination of the average value of an alternating electromotive force a rectifier of some kind is necessary. While somewhat difficult to keep in good working condition, the rectifying commutator, either mounted directly on the generator shaft or driven by a synchronous motor, has been, up to the present time, the only satisfactory apparatus for the purpose. The commutator has a number of disadvantages which are obvious to any one that has had occasion to use it and the development of a really satisfactory method for measuring average volts represents a distinct advance in the art."
"I. F. Kinnardi In the design of current transformers, it has long been recognized that a core material having low losses and high low-induction permeability is desirable. It is undesirable, however, to have the permeability of a transformer core changing very rapidly over its working range."
"R. B. Williamson: The testing of large generating units after they have been installed in the power station is becoming more common than was formerly the case because the great increase in size has rendered satisfactory factory testing very costly; in many cases it is, in fact, impracticable because the machines are not completely wound and assembled at the factory. There is no doubt that a great deal of money has been expended in the past on unsatisfactory factory tests that could have been made to much greater advantage after installation. Any methods of testing, therefore, that are of advantage when machines have been set up ready for use are worthy of very careful study and we are much indebted to Mr. Johnson for the present paper which shows the application of the retardation method to some of the largest hydroelectric units so far built."
"P. M. Lincolns: It would have added to our information if Prof. Karapetoff had gone a little further into the details of the amount of departure of this particular machine which he cites in the last part of his paper."
"M. G. Lloyd: I want to say something about the problem in general, and how it has been handled elsewhere. There are two ways in which it may come up."
"A. E. Knowlton: The principle of aerodynamics which Mr. Varney cites to account for the vibration of the transmission-line conductors is undoubtedly the same one which is found applied in the propulsion of Dr. Floettner's rotorship. The one difference is that he rotates the rotor and keeps the pressure always in one direction. That is not, of course, the case with the line conductors. The instability there results in alternation of the pressure and consequent vibration of the conductor."
"R. H. Wheeler: The paper by Mr. Prince is a very interesting discussion of the potential possibilities of the use of the interphase transformer."
"F. W. Peek: Messrs. Sindeband and Sporn's paper gives some very good data on practical lines in confirmation of experimental and theoretical work which I have been doing on this subject."
"W. H. Gerrie: It may be of interest to relate some operating experiences in connection with two such plants as Mr. Smith has described. The plants I refer to are on the Central Ontario System of the Hydro-Electric Power Commission and consist of three generators per plant, the capacity of the units in the one being 2000 kv-a. and in the other 1400 kv-a. Excitation is supplied by direct-connected exciters and control by one regulator of the vibrating type in each plant. The plants are located on a navigable stream, the levels of which are required to be maintained within very close limits. Both plants are controlled from one point and the operator in charge has to operate in addition the plant where he is located, which has a capacity of 9000 kv-a."
"An interesting series of lighting tests were conducted in connection with the meeting of the joint Steering Committee of the Illuminating Engineering Society and the Society of Automotive Engineers which was held during the recent convention of the S. A. E. at French Lick."
"By Committee on Production and Application of Light"
"Within the last two or three years an increasingly greater amount of attention has been given in various European countries to the promotion of better lighting in factories, homes offices and the like. Lighting demonstrations, illumination courses, technical and advertising literature are all being pressed into service to carry the message of good lighting to the people of many foreign lands. A list of some of the European countries where this work is now being carried on intensively would include England, France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Sweden, Czechoslovakia, Belgium, Scotland and perhaps some others."
"Significant are many of the trends shown in the annual report of the National Electric Light Association's Lamp Committee. In three years the average wattage of lamps consumed has risen from 55.6 to 57.6; the percentage of exactly 115-volt lamps has risen from 42.8 to 44.6. The Committee recommends that every member company have a “well organized Lighting Service Department,” and that there be permanent lighting demonstration rooms in every city of the country."
"The most impressive feature of the Pacific Coast Convention was the presentation of the Edison Medal to Dr. Harris J. Ryan at the dinner on Wednesday evening, September 8, 1926."
"On the evening of Wednesday, October 27, 1926, the New York Electrical Society will hold the first meeting of the year 1926–27. In line with the practise of the society to give to engineers and to the public reliable information on the most recent developments in the engineering and scientific fields, the meeting of October 27 will be devoted to “The Vitaphone.” Much has appeared in the press relative to the recent application of this development on the New York stage. The complete story of the principles, development and operation of the vitaphone will be outlined to the members of the society and their friends in a popular talk by E. B. Craft, executive vice-president, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc. Following Mr. Craft, the president of the Vitaphone Corporation, Mr. Walter Rich, will speak on educational and other possibilities. There will follow actual demonstrations of the vitaphone with the reproduction of selections by famous stars. The meeting will be held in the Auditorium of the Engineering Societies Bldg., 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y. at 8.15 p. m. on Wednesday, October 27, 1926. A cordial invitation is extended to members of the A. I. E. E. and others interested to be present as guests of the New York Electrical Society."
"The official program for the Philadelphia Convention of the American Society of Civil Engineers, Oct. 4–9, 1926 gives details of the various treats in store for those who attend. Seldom has the Society been privileged to present a more imposing schedule."
"The Conference on Bituminous Coal to be held at the Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh has been definitely scheduled for November 15 to November 19, 1926, according to an announcement from the institution."
"The standardization of voltages, and particularly of high voltages, has received much attention from the electrical industry for the last two years. Various organizations have been studying this question and, as a result, a group of central-station operating engineers, members of consulting and management organizations, electrical manufacturers and European engineers has arranged for the presentation of papers on this subject at the coming Winter Convention of the A. I. E. E., February 7–10, 1927. The committee on arrangements, of which B. G. Jamieson is chairman, has prepared the following announcement of its plans."
"A committee chosen from among executives of the Westinghouse corporations has been named to represent the enterprises founded by George Westinghouse in the work of erecting a memorial to him in Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa. to perpetuate esteem for his life and work."
"Announcements of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 160,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Buildingt 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient td cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil. Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, III., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"(A list of the personnel of Institute committees may bejfound in the September issue of jthe JOURNAL.)"
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Once upon a time a Greek philosopher said that to “know thyself” is the first step to wisdom. He might have added that to “know thy neighbour” is the second step to wisdom. I learned this second step when still a boy in my native village."
"Paul Martyn Lincoln, from 1914–1915 twenty seventh president of the A. I. E. E., was born Jan. 1, 1870 in Norwood, Michigan. In 1880 the family moved to Painsville, Ohio, through the high schools of which town Mr. Lincoln received his early schooling. In land, convinced him that his capabilities inclined more to the technical than the classical and upon completion of one year at the Western Reserve University, he entered degree of M. E. in Electrical Engineering June 1892. Immediately upon the close of his final semester, he engaged with the Short Electric Company, of Cleveland, house Electric and Mfg. Co., Pittsburgh, to take up important work for them. Two and a half years later he was chosen electrical superintendent in charge of the water power development of Niagara Falls for the Niagara Falls Power Company. This was the beginning of modern hydroelectric development, and the amount of power generated, transmitted and distributed by this first plant was so far in excess of any thing accomplished up to that date as to make it unique, with new problems involved in its progress constantly arising to be solved. In 1902, Mr. Lincoln returned to the Westinghouse Company and for six years was in charge of their Power Division of the Engineering Department. 1910 he was appointed general engineer for the Company, in which capacity he served until he tendered his resignation in 1919."
"Street lighting has been a problem ever since men began to herd together in cities. At first the problem was solved by each citizen who ventured out at night carrying a lantern or hiring a link boy to carry a torch before him."
"After much debate the system most favored is the three-phase, four-wire alternating-current network for the supply of light, power or the combination of light and power. Bur, unfortunately, most services and equipments are 110 volts or 220 volts today, and the electrical relations in the three-phase circuit make it possible only to obtain service at either 115 and 199 volts or 120 and 208 volts with simple transformation ratios. The relative merits of these combinations have been debated thoroughly and especially their effects on service using present standard equipment. No unanimous decision has been reached and both types of networks are in service. Both systems give satisfactory service when standard equipment is used, for, fortunately, lamps may be had at either 115 or 120 volts and single-phase and polyphase motors have tolerances whereby satisfactory operation may be had between, roughly, 110 and 120 volts single-phase and 200 and 240 volts three-phase. But, of course, when operated at points near the tolerance limits the margins of departure from the average motor characteristics are changed, and a design based on either system as a standard would have a wider field of satisfactory application. Electrical World."
"Electric service in rural districts is considered to be a necessity, and a plan for bringing this about in southeastern Wisconsin is outlined in this paper. The main features discussed are: (1) organization for the work, (2) rural rates and financing of line extensions, and (3), advertising and education. A type of economical line construction which will render reliable service is described. The outstanding feature of this line construction is the use of 300-ft. spans. Interesting data, obtained in a survey of a number of rural lines, are presented. The paper shows that in the territory served there were 2740 farms receiving service under the rural rate on January 1, 1926. It also shows that the general plan, which has been followed since 1920, encourages the extension of lines and extensive use of the service after farms have been connected."
"A cigar sorting machine has been perfected for use by cigar manufacturers, which has proved exceptionally accurate and speedy in its work. Cigars are sorted according to the shade of their coloring into no less than thirty separate grades, and to do this successfully requires, in a human, an exceptionally well trained eye. Recently an electrically operated machine has been developed for this purpose which will do this work with greater speed and accuracy. As this device automatically picks up each cigar and holds it up to its “eye,” a photoelectric cell, the various shades of brown cause varying reactions in the photoelectric cell, and relays actuated by these different currents select the compartment in which the cigar belongs. The machine grades sixty cigars every minute."
"In this paper the author deals with one of the questions with which the International Electrotechnical Commission is at present occupied; namely, the determination by simple tests of the actual losses in alternators. The author first reviews the existing rules and then states the variation of the losses in alternators as a function of the load and as a function of the power factor. His paper contains records of experimental researches which he has made and which serve on the one hand as a basis for discussion of the theoretical considerations which he develops and on the other hand to compare the actual losses with those obtained by the methods given in the rules at present in force. The author does not present definite conclusions since, in his opinion, these investigations ought to form the basis for a program of future researches and ought to serve as the basis for discussions in the Rating Committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission."
"The classic theory of circuits, as used by electrical engineers, is founded on the assumption that charge is invariant. The new forces which come into play when charges move, that is, when current flows, are expressed in terms of magnetic fields. According to this view the force between a pair of relatively moving charges is made up of two components, one along the line joining them which is always given by Coulomb's law, and a second perpendicular to this, depending upon the velocity, and expressed by means of magnetic fields. This classic concept involves necessarily a change of mass with velocity in order to account for observed results with high-speed electrons. Such a change of mass is also given by the theory of relativity."
"The communication on page 354 of the April JOURNAL brings up again the old suggestion of street surface lighting by means of a sheet of light distributed from a source in such a way as to confine it below eye level. This suggestion has no doubt been considered by nearly every engineering specialist on street lighting and presents some very interesting features."
"WHEN three-phase (three-wire) power is measured by the two-wattmeter method, the smaller reading may be either positive or negative, so that the total power, which is the sum of the two wattmeter readings, may be obtained by adding the smaller reading to the larger in one case, and by subtracting it in another case. On balanced load this reading is positive, and must be added, when the power factor is greater than 50 per cent; it is negative and must be subtracted when the power factor is lower than 50 per cent. However, unless the power factor is known, it is necessary to make sure by some other means which is the correct sign for this smaller reading; failure to do so has sometimes led to curious if not serious error. For balanced load, there are in use several methods of determining the sign of this reading at the time of test. These require that either the connections or the load be altered and that additional data be taken. Often enough, however, this sign is questioned only after the test is completed and the apparatus scattered, and in this case it is apparent that a determination which depends upon a simple consideration of the usual instrument readings would be useful. Such a method is the one to be described. It is applicable only to balanced three-phase loads and sinusoidal wave forms, but in itself gives an indication of the extent to which results are affected by variation from these conditions."
"This paper describes a system of electric control for sectionalized electric drive which makes use of a mechanical differential. Further, it discusses the drive of the constant-speed end of the paper machine and the general advantages of electrical sectional drive for paper mills. Some figures are given on the power consumption of several classes of mills. The type of drive described has been used for some time in Europe and Canada and it has now been successfully introduced in the United States."
"THE subject of this paper has been suggested to the U. S. Committee, by the Council of the I. E. C., as suitable for a report at this 1926 meeting, and has been assigned to the writer for preparation. The writer does not claim any authorization from the U. S. National Committee to present its views officially on the subject. He merely submits the paper as expressing personal opinions, aided, however, by the records and reports of a certain group of engineers who have given special attention to the thermal constants of electric machines, and who are mentioned in the following text."
"Experimental investigations were made for the determination of the temperature rise and the losses occurring in structural steel members exposed to the fields from a-c. conductors. The work originated from the demand, among the designing engineers of an electrical manufacturing company, for practical data which would enable them to estimate, at least roughly, the temperature rise and the heat losses in the more common cases of structural steel members passing near the conductors. In the paper presented here, are given the results of the investigations in question. Examples are given illustrating the method of procedure in estimating temperature rise and losses in structural steel. The method of calculation applied is, in most cases, empirical. The major factors affecting temperature rise and losses are discussed on the basis of the test data. An understanding of these factors will often permit a designer to avoid iron heating without sacrifice of space or of economy. Thus a good part of the data presented applies to cases for which the temperature rise of the steel would ordinarily be considered not seriously objectionable."
"The recent discovery of a new element making possible much lighter storage batteries, as reported late in March from Vienna, Austria, will, when perfected for commercial use, broaden the transportation field now served by the storage battery truck. It is said that the new element is one-fifth the weight of lead and surpasses the lead accumulators now used in storage batteries in both capacity and power. That electricity is playing an important role in transportation is evidenced by the many, installations of the electric truck for industrial plant hauling and city delivery service."
"The existence of a mechanical force in the direction of the axis of a conductor, the recognition of which the writer has been urging for many years, has been strenuously opposed by many (chiefly teachers and book writers) because it does not fit in with Maxwell's mathematical system, which recognizes only perpendicular forces. No one, however, has shown that it does not nor cannot exist, and it seems that its acceptance is now gaining, though slowly."
"The paper deals with those tests which are involved in specifications. The discussion is from the standpoint of the purpose and significance of the various standard tests which are made rather than that of the technic of the details of testing. A considerable number of data are given. The subjects treated are purpose and importance of tests of cable; insulation resistance test; high voltage test; dielectric loss and power factor test; “ionization” test; bending test; accelerated life test; preparation of samples for high-voltage tests and tests of components. The possible significance of wide variation in some of the properties of cable is discussed. The relation found between time and voltage based on a large number of tests of both three conductor and single conductor cable is discussed at considerable length. A test for stability of the impregnating compound is described as is also a proposed standard load for dielectric-loss testing. Some data are given showing the effect of repeated bending on lead and how that effect is influenced by the tensile stress in the lead. The paper concludes with a list of the ways by which, in the author's opinion, progress can be made in the improvement of the quality and the design of paper-insulated high-tension cable."
"On February 7th, new traffic signal equipment went into service in the Loop district in Chicago at forty-nine street intersections. All this apparatus, equipped with three-light traffic signals at each corner, is served from underground circuits terminating at the City Hall where a central control board is located. This board provides an extremely flexible control, it being possible to vary the intervals between traffic halts at intersections along the same street. The ratio between periods on intersecting streets may likewise be varied. The control board was built under the specifications of the Department of Gas and Electricity."
"This paper outlines the advantages and disadvantages of an interconnected system consisting of steam and hydroelectric stations. Investment costs are materially reduced because of less reserve capacity being required to insure continuous service. More efficient operation of generating units is possible and operating costs are reduced. Electrical disturbances are magnified and large generating stations must be located near the heaviest load centers so that the system may be split up to localize disturbances. A well-trained corps of load despatchers must be available and they must be fully informed of all conditions on the system which may affect operation."
"Street lighting began in 1414 when a city ordinance in London required every house and store owner on certain streets to hang out at least one horn-sided lantern at sunset. Paris, in 1558, led the world in municipal street lighting when it installed tall vases at important street corners in which pitch was burned each night with flickering, sooty results. These various crude outdoor lighting methods strove ineffectually for more than 450 years to achieve what the electric carbon and filament lamps have done in the last 40 years."
"V. Bush (Communicated by letter) : The total power in any network must evidently be supplied by the source. Similarly the algebraic sum of the separate reactive kv-a. in the separate branches must also be supplied from the source as excitation to the system. This applies to a system in which all voltages and currents are of the same frequency, irrespective of how the system may be interconnected. It is a very useful principle, and I have been using it with classes at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the form given by Dr. Mershon, since he first called it to my attention sometime ago."
"L. F. Woodruffs One of the chief problems encountered in the calculating of the most advantageous amount and phase of compounding for the generator-end voltage of a transmission line is the determination of the settings required to locate the receiver power circle center at a predetermined point. This problem is more involved than that of finding the center of the circle for given regulator settings, and while it is possible of explicit solution, such a solution is so cumbersome and involved that it is practically useless. Yet the logical approach to the problem is to try different circles of load power until the one is found which affords most economical operation, considering line and transformer losses, synchronous reactor losses and costs, voltage rise on the line, and stability. Then, having located the circle from economic considerations, the problem becomes that of finding the regulator settings required to make this the operating circle of the system."
"V. M. Montsing´er: The general tendency today is to make all electrical apparatus as fool-proof as possible. This is especially true of apparatus applied to protect other apparatus. In other words when the safety of other apparatus worth many thousands of dollars is dependent upon the proper functioning of a reactor it becomes doubly important to make the reactor as nearly perfect as possible. Mr. Kierstead's paper shows a marked advance in the art of making a dependable currentlimiting reactor."
"H. C. Forbes: Engineers who have been concerned with the layout of isolated-phase generating stations wjll be especially interested in the paper of Mr. Schurig and Mr. Kuehni. In general, this type of station construction is likely to lead to a condition such that heavy currents will be flowing through a bus bar which may be in fairly close proximity to the steel work of the station while the return circuit for this current is comparatively remote."
"H. C. Forbes: Engineers who have been concerned with the layout of isolated-phase generating stations wjll be especially interested in the paper of Mr. Schurig and Mr. Kuehni. In general, this type of station construction is likely to lead to a condition such that heavy currents will be flowing through a bus bar which may be in fairly close proximity to the steel work of the station while the return circuit for this current is comparatively remote."
"NEW YORK, N. Y."
"J. J. Smith: I should like to refer to the paragraph third from the end of Mr. Vallarta's paper in which he states that Heaviside gave another alternative proof of his Expansion Formula. This is given in Heaviside's Electrical Papers, Vol. II, p. 226, in a footnote. As this seems to be another very important way of proving the expansion theorem, I shall take the liberty of quoting it in full, as follows:"
"W. B. Creagmile: Mr. Ormondroyd has mentioned a vibrating-reed type of instrument with one reed. The common use of vibrating-reed instruments having a series of tuned reeds along a marked scale, to measure revolutions per minute and a-c. frequency, is not mentioned in the paper. The reeds of the tachometer pick up mechanical vibration from the machine to which the instrument is attached. In the frequency meter, the reeds are set in vibration by alternating current flowing through an electromagnet placed in series with resistance across the mains."
"Street lighting has been a problem ever since men began to herd together in cities. At first the problem was solved by each citizen who ventured out at night carrying a lantern or hiring a link boy to carry a torch before him."
"A program of unusual interest has been arranged for the Regional Meeting which will be held at the Niagara Hotel, Niagara Falls, N. Y., May 26–28, under the direction of the Northeastern District of the Institute. The technical sessions will include a symposium on measurement of dielectric power factor, papers on transmission, tests of hydroelectric units, rectifiers, transformer design, polarization of radio waves, armature reactance, magnetic-flux measurements, current transformers, supervisory control, fire protection for generators, etc. A list of the technical papers was published in the JOURNAL for April 1926, page 391, and a complete program will be distributed by mail prior to the meeting."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, April 9, 1926."
"The first plenary meeting of the International Electrotechnical Commission ever held in the United States opened April 13 and terminated April 22, in the Engineering Societies Building, New York."
"The annual business meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held on Friday, May 21, at 8:15 P. M. (daylight saving time) in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City. At this meeting the reports of the Committee of Tellers on the annual election of Institute officers will be presented, as well as the report of the Board of Directors for the year ending April 30, 1926."
"At the recent meeting of the A. E. C. Administrative Board, Louisville, Ky., April 2nd, important matters upon which the Council has been working were reported as having shown encouraging progress. Progress Reports of the Department of Public Works and from the Committee on Street and Highway Safety were received. Of the seven continuing committees established by the Second National Street and Highway Conference, it was determined by the committee in charge that engineering representation should be had on at least five."
"W. J. SWALES, after twelve years of service in Latin America and Cuba and of late Superintendent of the Cia Electrica De A. Y. T. de Santiago de Cuba, has resigned his position to return to his home in Canada, where he will enjoy a well earned vacation of three or four months with relatives and friends."
"James Winthrop Thomas, Fellow of the 4 Institute and brother of Percy H. Thomas, died at his home, Plandome, L. I., April 13,1926, in the 52nd year of his age."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil. Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions [of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The prospects for better and more effective work by the Student Branches have been greatly increased during the past year by the appointment of faculty members as official Counselors, authorized by the Board of Directors a year ago. The Counselors, now eighty-seven in number, are ex-officio members of the Student Branches Committee and as a consequence the work during the year has centered chiefly on providing machinery for coordinating the efforts of the enlarged membership."
"Arthur William Berresford, thirty-third president of the Institute (1920–1921), was born in Brooklyn, New York, in the year 1872. After the completion of his grade school education, he entered the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute to prepare for his professional career and was graduated with the class of 1892. He then entered as Senior at Cornell University, graduating in 1893 with the degree of M. E. in Electricity."
"In this paper, the various steps in the establishment of the existing network of transcontinental type circuits and the transmission design considerations are reviewed. The discussion covers the communication channels obtained from transcontinental type facilities and the bands of frequencies employed, and includes carrier-current systems, telephone repeaters and signaling systems. Mention is made of special uses of transcontinental telephone circuits, such as the transmission of program material for broadcasting and the transmission of pictures. Finally, the maintenance methods required to keep the system at full efficiency are outlined."
"Since the insulation of windings in electric machines has comparatively low temperature limits, the problem of cooling these machines with the most economical use of material becomes one of major importance. The design of such machines from a temperature standpoint is usually based on tests of a previously made similar machine or else is of the “cut-and-try” type where such tests are not available. The predetermination of the operating temperature depends a great deal upon the rate at which the heat losses can be liberated from the ventilating surface to some cooling fluid such as air, which is considered in this paper. Some data are available regarding this rate of heat dissipation with forced air convection currents; a comparison of the various results published, however, shows them to be inconsistent. The purpose of this paper is to submit additional information that should be of value to the industry and that will also explain some of the inconsistencies in the past tests."
"This analysis indicates how, with the aid of a few elementary transformation theorems, the operation of electric circuits, machinery, and vibrations of all kinds may be visualized and their limitations and possibilities discerned without the aid of extensive mathematical formulas. A graphical method for the solution of alternating-current (ac) circuits is developed and discussed. Certain characteristics of circuits are identified which greatly simplify the graphical solutions of circuits and indicates a method for the computation of charts showing changes upon individual units comprising the system. "
"This paper points out the need which exists in the electrical industry; particularly in connection with the testing of high-voltage cables for convenient standards for use in the measurement of dielectric loss. At present most laboratories make use of air condensers. In the paper these are classified and certain sources of error which must be guarded against are mentioned. Condensers with solid dielectrics would be much more convenient, more portable, and cheaper, but so far none have been produced which have satisfactory constancy for use as standards at high voltage."
"Scientific Paper No. 530 of the Bureau of Standards, by C. B. Jolliffe and Grace Hazen, bears the above title, and describes a method for measuring the ratio of a radio to an audio-frequency by the use of a harmonic amplifier. The harmonic amplifier makes it possible to use harmonics of a very high order from a known low-frequency source, such as a standard tuning fork. The method consists essentially of the production of harmonics of the fundamental frequency of an alternating current by means of the nonlinear characteristics of electron tubes, the selection of any desired harmonic by means of tuned circuits, and its amplification to sufficient power to operate a standard frequency meter (wave meter). Any harmonic of the source may be selected, and thus from a known audio-frequency source a frequency meter may be standardized throughout its entire range."
"Mercury rectifiers have been known for about twenty-four years, but until the last few years their principles of operation have not been understood with any certainty, and all are not yet conclusively proved. In the first part of this paper, the probable mechanism of the electron source or cathode spot is outlined, the source of the various losses is indicated, and the probable mechanism of arc back, that is, failure to rectify, is described. The second part of the paper is devoted to the principles of simple rectifier circuits, while the third shows a variety of rectifiers of different kinds and sizes."
"With the increase in capacity of d-c. machines, the question of their successful operation has become more and more important. It is thought that multiplex windings offer creditable advantages if they are designed so that cross connections can be suitably applied and the circuits thereby kept balanced, a feature which was not given thorough consideration when multiplex windings were first tried. This paper describes machines in which the proper design may be secured when standard construction is used. Both the lap and wave types of windings are considered. The principles are applied to duplex windings in this paper, but if so desired they may be applied also to triplex and other multiplex windings. A brief description of “frog leg windings,” a recently developed type of multiplex winding, is also given."
"A pressure machine capable of applying a load of 10,000,000 lb. was used at the Bureau of Standards in Washington to determine whether steel girders welded by electricity can stand stresses necessary in skyscraper construction. The welds made good. In order to make the test some steel plates were fabricated by electric welding into a plate girder 15 ft. long having a web plate 1/2 in. thick and 24 in. deep. The flanges were 12 in. wide, one was 1 3/4 in. thick and the other 1 7/8 in. thick. A 9 1/2-in. cover plate was used on the top and bottom flanges. Pressure was applied in the middle of a 13 1/2-ft. span. The web buckled and the girder had deflected several inches before the electric welds connecting the web to the top flange failed at the ends. The welds withstood a load of well over 410 tons which was considered to be the full strength of the web."
"According to report received from the American Consul at St. John, Canada, comparatively high grade copper ore has been located from recent prospecting near Elgin, Albert County, New Brunswick, the preliminary examination covering an area of approximately two square miles. According to official assays the ore value runs as high as $15 per ton."
"To the Board of Directors: Foreword Because of the many developments during the past few years within the scope of the Committee on Protective Devices, it was held desirable to present, this year, a survey of the present state of the art in the field of protective devices for power systems, and the following annual report has been prepared with this purpose in view. The Committee has also, during the past year, given careful attention to the possibilities of further standardization in the field of protective devices, and has certain definite recommendations to make."
"To the Board of Directors: As required by provision of the By-laws, this report constitutes a brief resume of of the progress of the lighting art, including recent developments in electric lighting which appear to have significance as indicating an actual trend in the art."
"In recent years, much attention has been given to fire protection of turbo generators, resulting in a trend towards closed ventilating systems and the use of inert gas to smother combustion. Water-wheel type generators are not so well adapted to this method of protection. In water-power plants, water is the most readily available means for fire extinguishment, but its indiscriminate use through perforated pipes or nozzles may cause damage equal to that of the fire. The present paper describes a system of fire protection for water-wheel type generators which is designed to limit both fire and water damage to the section of the generator immediately adjacent to the point of origin of the fire. This is accomplished, first, by air baffles which control the flow of ventilating air around the armature end projections, and second, by the use of fusible sprinkler heads which permit the application of the water solely to the region of the fire. The means for preventing and detecting fires in such generators are also outlined. Tests made during design to establish the effectiveness of the scheme and devices used are also described."
"To the Board of Directors: Last year's report of this Committee reviewed the many important developments in the art of power generation and dealt particularly with advances in steam station design and operation. As a committee we were just a little prone to believe that there could not be the advance during 1925 that had taken place during 1924. Nevertheless, substantial progress has been made."
"Lack of sufficient light is a much more common cause of accident than is glare, statistics show, asserts the October issue of the Journal of the Society of Automotive Engineers. It defines the ideal headlight as one that shows with sufficient clearness all that a driver needs to see when the road ahead is free from approaching vehicles, and that projects very little light to the spot occupied by the eyes of an approaching driver."
"An exploring potential wire was used to locate the radial position and to determine the potential of the space charge that surrounds a conductor in 60–cycle corona. The familiar concentric cylinder set-up was used. The potential of the exploring wire due to the applied voltage and its position in the electric field between the conductor and cylinder was maintained at zero so that the potential on the wire was due only to the presence of the space charge. The cyclic potentials of the exploring wire at various radial distances from the conductor in corona at the center of the cylinder were observed with an electrometer of low capacitance connected through a phase-shifting synchronous contactor to the exploring wire and through its own capacitance to ground. The location of the space charge and the potential it sets up in the electric field in the space surrounding the conductor in corona were thus determined. The paper contains four sections: I — The Problem and Results, II. — Description of the Apparatus Used and the Method of Application, III — Discussion, IV — Conclusions."
"Some interesting studies of the unbalanced tensions produced by heavy ice loadings on long spans supported by suspension insulators were made in the course of designing the recently completed Wallenpaupack-Siegfried 220-kv. line of the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company. These studies included investigations of the effects produced on suspension insulator construction by a broken conductor. Computations were verified in an approximate way by experiments on a one-mile section of the actual line. For the most party results are given in diagrammatic form, in sufficient detail to allow both analysis and approximate application to similar problems."
"ALTHOUGH the power shovel was developed and brought to a high state of perfection by using steam as a motive power, a constantly increasing number of power shovels is being supplied for electrical operation. These electric power shovels are being used for all sorts of work although they are in particular favor for projects of a permanent nature or for those requiring a considerable period for completion. In some cases the electric power shovel has been adopted when starting these projects, or in other cases it has replaced the steam power shovel because of its superior operating economies. This process of replacement is very active at the present time in connection with open-pit copper and open-pit iron mines. Other extensive uses for electric power shovels are found in “strip” coal mines, quarries with output used in crushed form (such as for blast-furnace purposes), road materials, cement manufacturing steel plants for rehandling ore and slag, and contract work on dams, canals, tunnels, etc."
"W. F. Dawson: In an article published in 19202 I called attention to the fact that in many cases load losses indicated during short-circuit test were greatly reduced when the machine was run at full voltage and rated power factor."
"W. F. Clark: One very important feature in the paper of Messrs. Roper and Halperin is the correlation of tests and service, and nobody could do that except an operating man."
"Eugene Holcomb: I notice the difference in the rate schedules in these two papers. The rates shown by Mr. Post seem undoubtedly too low for average rural territory."
"E. B. Paine: The Engineering Experiment Station of the University of Illinois was established December 8, 1903. The object of this experiment station was stated to be the encouragement of training in engineering and the study of problems of special importance to professional engineers and to engineering industries."
"C. M. Gilt: The load and service requirements in the metropolitan districts are such that there has been some hesitancy in the introduction of purely automatic stations. In these territories it is common practise to maintain crews on 24-hr. duty for the promptest possible restoration of service in case of feeder outages. It is therefore important that the repair crews learn of the outage of any particular feeder as quickly as possible after it has occurred."
"J. R. Craighead: In calculations on instrument transformers, more exact work is necessary than on power transformers if the results obtained are to be worthy of the accuracy which can be developed in the transformer itself."
"W. E. Beaty (Cincinnati): The application of individual motor drive to varied machines, and particularly to the machines requiring 5 h. p. and below, has introduced the need for indicating lamps in connection particularly with automatic control of such machines. The gaseous lamp shown may meet that problem, and I should like to ask Mr. Millar what the voltage limitations are on a lamp of that character? I am wondering if the lamp can be used on all circuits up to, say, including 550 volts?"
"J. J. Linebaugh: Very few engineers other than those actively engaged in railway substation and distribution work appreciate the great advance made during the last few years in the protection of substation apparatus and railway networks, due to the development of the high-speed breaker."
"A. Odermatt: While it is true that there are still some phenomena in connection with the mercury arc rectifier which we don't quite understand, it is also true that we know enough about the process taking place inside the rectifier to design perfectly reliable converters of both the glass-bulb and the iron-clad types."
"H. B. Dwight t Part of the work done by Mr. Nelson in preparing his paper was a detailed study of all editions of Professor Arnold's books as well as a study of the few other books which have referred to multiplex windings on cross-connected d-c. armatures."
"H. M. Hobart: It seems to me that we are only just beginning a much larger activity in standardization. Now that the Standards are being brought out in a large number of different pamphlets, it seems to me that we are just at the beginning of an era when hundreds of people can be doing the standardizing work."
"W. F. Davidson: Some time ago, I had occasion to consider the possibility of carrying on measurements of about the type described by Mr. Mershon and looked into the possibility of several methods, but we seemed to run into difficulties because the vibrations that we wanted to record were in the order of 200 cycles. Modulating a 500-cycle wave with 200 cycles does not give a very satisfactory wave to work on. On the other hand, using frequencies higher than 500 cycles is likely to lead to some circuit difficulties, especially if an oscillograph is to be used. I have wondered whether it might be possible to use frequencies in the order of several thousand cycles and then, through a valve arrangement similar to a radio detector circuit, unscramble the composite current so that the wave can pass through the oscillograph and reproduce truly the original modulating action. It seems to me that there is a possible development of considerable value in this direction."
"An all-electric village has grown up in Eltham, England. When the housing scheme of the Woolwich Borough Council was first proposed it was the intention to provide, electricity for lighting only and gas for cooking. The plan was apparently dealt a heavy blow when it was found that gas would not be available in that locality. Subsequent investigation however, indicated that the advantages of complete electric service could be had without sacrificing economy so that today a thriving community of 600 houses uses electricity entirely for lighting, cooking, heating and the performance of household chores."
"A program of very timely interest will be presented at the Regional Meeting to be held in New York City, November 11 and 12, under the direction of District No. 3 of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. There will be three instructive technical sessions and other attractive features. The Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, will be headquarters for the meeting."
"The John Fritz Gold Medal for 1927 was awarded Oct. 15,1926, to Elmer Ambrose Sperry of New York, for the development of the gyro-compass and the application of the gyroscope to the stabilization of ships and aeroplanes."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, October 15,1926."
"The highest voltage yet obtained by man was demonstrated in the new laboratory of Stanford University, California, on Friday, September 17, before an assemblage of eminent men of science including Cummingb C. Chesney, president of the Institue educators, and the press, a ribbon of living flame, more than 20 ft. long, leaped between two points high into the air above six giant transformers, marking the highest voltage yet attained at commercial frequency. — 2,100,000 volts."
"Upon invitation from President Dexter S. Kimball, the Administrative Board of American Engineering Council has decided to hold its next meeting at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., November 11 and 12. The regular meeting of the Executive Committee will precede the meeting of the Board."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th Street, New York."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 89th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill, A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"The National Academy of Sciences is making a strong effort to raise a national research endowment of $20,000,000 for research in pure science. The committee under which this movement is being fostered is under the chairmanship of Herbert Hoover and contains the names of such well-known scientists and engineers as John J. Carty, Frank B. Jewett, Gano Dunn, Robert A. Millikan and Henry S. Pritchett in addition to many names of prominent financiers and executives. Such an endowment will make possible uninterrupted investigations in pure science which now are necessarily limited."
"Exceedingly well worth while was the annual convention of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, held at White Sulphur Springs, West Va., last week. The executives of the Institute stressed the importance of engineering participation in all national affairs. The technical committees made reports which showed the status of the art and outlined the developments needed. Several fine technical papers were presented which gave rise to profitable discussions. The meeting, in short, gave evidence of entire competency on the part of electrical engineers to meet their responsibilities."
"E. Wilbur Rice, Jr., thirtieth president of the Institute, 1917–1918, was born at La Crosse, Wis., May 6, 1862."
"Slowed-up moving pictures just taken by Carl Wallen and R. S. Green, New York motion picture camera men, of a number of different plants grown under electric light by the Westinghouse Lamp Company, in co-operation with Peter Henderson & Son, seedsmen in their greenhouses in Jersey City, N. J., prove conclusively that through the use of artificial light plants can be forced or retarded to conform to a predetermined schedule. The motion pictures were taken for the purpose of registering the exact degree of acceleration in the growth of the plants when forced by artificial light, and to determine at which stage of the plant's blossoming the light has the maximum effect. The pictures show that the blooming was greatly speeded up, some flowers, such as tulips, for instance, coming from tight buds to full bloom in less than an hour."
"Investigating the radiation from the carbon arc is a matter of great importance in the treatment of diseases by exposure to light, especially sunlight. However, sunlight can not always be obtained, hence the demand for an artificial source approaching sunlight in its characteristics."
"This paper develops a point of view and method by means of which it is possible to arrive at many of the transient effects occurring in radio systems by a consideration of steady-state properties alone. The scheme is to replace the voltages in radio receiving systems due to interference and signals by a group of generators having the correct voltages and frequencies. These generators can be thought of as having been in the circuit for an indefinitely long time, so that only the steady-state response of the system need be considered. The generators which replace the voltages induced in an antenna by interrupted continuous wave stations, by spark telegraph stations, by telephone stations and by static are worked out. The desirable properties of radio receiving systems for receiving various types of signals through interference are arrived at and an ideal system is described which may be used as a standard of reference for judging the merits of any actual frequency selecting system. It is shown that this ideal system reduces the interference from all sources to the smallest possible value which can be obtained in a system which makes use of frequency selection to reduce interference. The paper thus arrives at the degree to which interference can be mitigated by frequency-selection methods. In order to illustrate the method of treating actual systems, calculations are given for a simple series receiver. The interference caused by transmitting stations of various types and by static is discussed and the factors determining such interference are pointed out."
"This paper deals with the effect of errors in the measurement of power factor upon the usefulness of impregnated paper-insulated cables. It points to error in the knowledge of the thermal properties of the cable and the cable duct. The latter error affects the usefulness of a cable to such an extent as to permit a limited error in the power factor without materially reducing the efficiency of the cable. This limited error defines the required power-factor accuracy. The required power-factor accuracy in general is found to vary directly with the frequency and the specific inductive capacity of the insulation, and to increase with the number of cables in a duct bank and the ratio of E2/G, where E is the operating voltage of the cable in kilovolts and G is the geometric factor. For very high-voltage single-conductor cables the power-factor accuracy should be within the order of 0.002."
"The Bureau of Standards was asked to develop for the United States Coast Guard, a simple type of radio direction finder which should function on 2100 kc. (143 m). Such a device enables a ship so equipped to locate another ship readily. A paper under the above title, by F. W. Dunmore, (Scientific Paper No. 525 of the Bureau of Standards) describes the development of such a direction finder and its installation on a Coast Guard patrol boat. The direction-finder coil consists of four turns of ignition cable, wound on a 20-in. frame. It is installed over the pilot house and rotated from below. A tuning unit and coupling transformer have been designed so that the direction-finder coil may be used on the ship's receiving set without changing its tuning adjustments, which are locked in the 2100-kc. position. A special form of automatic balancing condenser, operated by a special cam rotating with the direction-finder shaft, is incorporated in this instrument. Thus a clear minimum may be obtained at all angular positions of the coil without manual operation of the balancing condenser. The controls necessary when taking a bearing are in this manner reduced to one that of rotating the direction-finder coil to obtain the minimum signal."
"This paper points out some of the difficulties of making accurate power measurements at very low power factors. It deals with the lack of reference standards of known and constant power factor, especially for moderate sized samples and at high voltages. It also points out that a method of measuring an added loss as a check on a given test outfit's accuracy is not a check at all, although it has been used as such in several instances. Reference is made to calorimetrical methods of calibrating a testing outfit and to special forms of resistors that have very low time constant and are suitable for this class of test work."
"This is a paper on rural electrification, discussing some of the problems connected with this important development. The paper points out the effect of power and machinery on the living conditions of the American farm and the part electricity may play. It discusses the things being done by the agricultural and electrical industries to direct and bring about a proper development of this service."
"In presenting this report it is the aim of the Committee on Communication not so much to present a complete report of all the developments which have been made during the last Institute year in the art of electrical communication, but rather to single out those advances which it is thought will be of greatest interest to the members of the Institute. Topics covered include: printing telegraphy; \"ticker\" transmission; submarine telegraphy; machine switching telephony; telephone toll cables; radio telegraphy; transatlantic radio telephony; radio propagation tests; radio broadcasting; electrical transmission of pictures; inductive coordination; telephone service for the deaf; characteristics of speech; loading of telephone circuits; fire-alarm, and police-signal, and train-control systems."
"The use of the dynamometer wattmeter for measuring the dielectric power loss and power factor of cable and capacitor insulation is not new, but dates from about 1890. Dynamometer wattmeters as available today are suitable for making these measurements. Care and attention must be given to their application. The usual methods of application are: 1. Compensated dynamometer wattmeter method, with air capacitor, 2. Inductance variation method (phase-defect compensation method), with air capacitor, 3. Series resistor and wattmeter method, 4. Resonance wattmeter method. Comparative measurements of dielectric power loss and power factor of cable samples indicate that results are being obtained with the dynamometer wattmeter wherein the probable departure from the true value is within from 10 to 20 per cent. There is need for an effective means of standardizing any measuring equipment. Study of the calorimeter method for this purpose seems desirable."
"The effect of good light on factory output was demonstrated last winter in a ball-bearing plant. Without the knowledge of the workmen, illumination was raised from five-ft. candles to 20-ft. candles. Production increased 12.5 per cent. Lighting cost per hour in that section of the factory under test was incrased 28 cents and the hourly saving to the company through increased production was $1.47."
"The paper describes the manner in which certain series of harmonic currents may be permitted to flow within a transformer network. In particular it is shown how the fifth and seventh harmonics of transformer exciting current may be eliminated from transmission lines. The extent to which the harmonic currents generated in a rectifier may be eliminated from the a-c. lines by means of phase multiplication is also indicated."
"In the waterless desert, where natural power does not exist, oil engines are developing profitable industry by generating accessible power. A striking example of this may be found at Gerlach, Nevada. Here, in the granite mountains, a rich deposit of rock gypsum was discovered. It was ten miles from the nearest railroad and, being in the heart of the desert, coal was not obtainable. There was neither power, nor water, and there were no housing facilities. Added to these obstacles, the climate in the region covers an unusually wide range of temperature from as low as 40 deg. below zero in winter to 115 deg. in summer."
"Referring to the paper on Transmission Line Design, abstracted in the A. I. E. E. JOURNAL of December 1925, p. 1352, I wish to call attention to an important omission by the author."
"Perhaps the major reason for the popularity of electrical advertising is its enormous “brightness” contrasts its letters of fire drawn out against the dark night sky. Its use and maximum effectiveness have been confined chiefly to those hours when there is a dark night sky; and the time clocks, turning the signs off after the people are abed, are set to turn them on again only at dusk the next day. While it is true that during the evening hours advertising is most effective — when people are most receptive — yet there are daylight hours when advertisers clamor for attention. The theater, with its matinee performances, has empty seats to fill. The real-estate development, where brightest days are best for trade, finds everyone vying for attention. The shopping district stores entice the midday throngs with as keen competition for the attention of all, those who walk or those who ride, — as at any other time. Yet, at these hours, the signs brilliant at night become mere painted messages dependent upon such secondary agencies as beauty, grace, and color to catch and hold the eye. For the filament of the incandescent lamp, although very bright, is small in size, and against the light daytime backgrounds, there is insufficient area of brightness to command attention."
"Arrangements are being completed for the 1926 Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute which will be held in Salt Lake City, September 6, 7, 8 and 9, 1926. A special technical program is being prepared and the Convention Committee is arranging a series of events for the entertainment of those who will be in attendance. The convention meetings will be held at Hotel Utah, which will also be the headquarters for all other convention activities."
"The forty-second Annual Convention of the A. I. E. E. convened at the Greenbrier Hotel, White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., President M. I. Pupin presiding. About 350 members and guests were in attendance and while it was numerically smaller than many of the previous conventions it was of the utmost technical interest because of the number of excellent papers and committee reports. The hotel and its surroundings left nothing to be desired in the way of entertainments and sports. Following the usual custom at Summer Conventions, the technical sessions were confined entirely to the mornings, leaving the balance of the day open for recreation and social purposes."
"Marking the founding of the Society in 1906, the Twentieth Anniversary Convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society will be held at Spring Lake, New Jersey, September 7th to 10th inclusive, when the great advances and developments which have been made during the past 20 years in this special field of Engineering activity will be fittingly observed. A program of diversified and comprehensive papers on subjects of great practical interest has been arranged by the Committee in charge. One special feature of the program particularly appropriate at this time will be a session devoted to developments in the art of illumination which have taken place during this twenty-year period. Another session will be of interest to central-station lighting men and devoted to the presentation and discussion of the Lighting Sales Manual, prepared by a joint committee of the Illuminating Engineering Society and the National Electric Light Association. The manual outlines methods found most efficient by some of the leading illuminating engineers of the country in promoting good lighting by central stations. Centralstation lighting men from the leading public utilities are to be invited to discuss the manual and promote its adoption and use."
"Topics for discussion at the sectional meeting of the World Power Conference, to be held in Basle, Switzerland, August 31 to September 12, 1926, in which the American Committee of the conference will participate, include the utilization of water power, inland navigation, exchange of electrical energy between countries, electricity in agriculture and railway electrification."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Greenbrier Hotel, White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., on Wednesday, June 23, 1926, during the Annual Convention of the Institute."
"Prizes for papers presented during 1925, in the Northeastern District of the Institute, have been awarded by the Prize Committee of that District."
"A three-day meeting in a tent camp was held by the Saskatchewan Section on July 8, 9 and 10, at Estevan, Saskatchewan. Twenty-nine tents were erected to accommodate the one hundred members of the Section and the invited Saskatchewan Branches of the Engineering Institute of Canada and the Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy."
"On June 30, Armour Institute of Technology, at Chicago, brought to a successful close a campaign for raising a million dollars as a preliminary move in its affiliation with Northwestern University. Of the million dollars, the alumni subscribed more than one-third, the balance being made up of donations from members of the Armour family, a citizen of Chicago interested in engineering, and several public utility corporations."
"The failure of Congress to complete radio regulation and the confusing decisions rendered by the Courts on radio laws of 1912 have led the Department of Commerce to request an opinion from the Attorney General on the whole situation of Departmental authority. The most important feature of the matter is in respect to the right to assign, enforce or deny the use of specific wavelengths to individual stations, the key to the whole regulation."
"The creation of a new graduate course to prepare men for engineering research or for teaching and which will lead to the degree of Master of Science in Electrical Engineering has been announced by Dr. Harold Pender, Dean of the Moore School of Electrical Engineering of the University of Pennsylvania and Fellow of the Institute."
"A uniform electrical ordinance has been prepared by the Electrical Manufacturers Council, providing that work done in accordance with the regulations as laid down in the two national codes shall be prima facie evidence that it is in conformity with the most approved methods of construction for safety to life and property. As the number of municipalities adopting this ordinance increases, the inspection situation will become simplified accordingly."
"Contemplation of the rapidly increasing demand for mechanical power by the industries and homes of the United States reveals the secret for its success and leadership as an industrial and commercial nation. Greater and more economical production at a smaller expenditure of human energy is the reason for its supremacy. Mechanical power as utilized in the automobile and tractor, in the locomotive and steamboat, and as derived from the electric motor in the factory and home, lies at the root of the growth of the country and of the increase in the physical and spiritual well-being of its people. The tremendous advances in the art of generating power to meet the demand are emphasized by the recent announcement by an eastern public utility of the award of a contract for a steam turbine to generate 160,000 kilowatts or more than 210,000 horse power. This gigantic machine is 60 per cent larger than the largest turbine previously constructed. Compared with the turbines of ten years ago, it is considered a miracle of the engineering world. A more interesting contrast is called to mind by the opening of the Exposition in Philadelphia fifty years ago when, after some speech-making, President Grant and the Emperor of Brazil started the giant Coruss Engine, generating 1400 horse power, weighing 700 tons, and requiring sixty-five freight cars to deliver in Philadelphia."
"Four scholarships each of which provides for payment of $500 a year to be applied toward an engineering education have been awarded by the Westingheuse Electric and Manufacturing Company. The winners of the awards, based on the 1926 competitive examination given by the Educational Department, are Robert R. Lockwood, an employe of the company and student in the night school of Carnegie Institute of Technology; William J. Mor lock, a graduate of the McKeesport (Pa.) High School; Frank M. Redman, graduate of Grant High School, Portland, Oregon; and Harry W. Thiemecke, company employe and student at Carnegie Institute of Technology."
"A public service solution of the broadcasting problem is sought by the American Engineering Council, according to announcement made by its president, Dexter S. Kimball, of Cornell University."
"All common carriers using motor bus transportation have been called upon by the Interstate Commerce Commission to give complete information regarding the operation of their motor bus and motor truck lines including, as far as possible, the effect on railroad traffic or competing motor transportation."
"The Minnesota Federation of Architectural and Engineering Societies will hold an International mid-continent engineering convention in Duluth and on the Mesabi Iron Range, August 12th, 13th and 14th. The program will include papers descriptive of the great iron-mining and transportation industries in northern Minnesota and Wisconsin and visits to mines, docks and mills. There will be a banquet with speakers of national repute, and other entertainment. Special provision will be made for entertaining the ladies. The architects and engineers of Canada and this country are cordially invited. Inquiries should be addressed to W. H. Woodbury, 510 Wolvin Bldg., Duluth, Minn."
"Dr. W. D. Coolidge, assistant director of the research laboratory of the General Electric Company and inventor of an X-ray tube which bears his name and which is universally used in hospitals and laboratories, has been awarded the Howard N. Potts gold medal for 1926 by the Franklin Institute of Philadelphia."
"B. M. HORTER, who had been connected with the Philadelphia office of the Cutler-Hammer Mfg. Co., has been appointed manager of that company's Boston office."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Charles E. Scribner, a Fellow of the Institute since 1913, and one of its vice-presidents from 1913 to 1915, died at his summer home in Jericho, Vt., June 25, 1926. Mr. Scribner, who was 68 years of age, had been actively engaged in work in the electrical field for more than forty years."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil. Mining. Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736. Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"By means of the radio signaling system described it is possible, through the addition of a comparatively simple attachment to a standard radio telephone transmitter, to modulate the carrier with an audio frequency tone in such a manner as to provide for calling individually, simultaneously, or in a number of designated groups, any one of several hundred radio receiving stations. At the radio receiving stations apparatus is provided which may be operated from commercial sources of power supply and by means of which a visible or audible signal is given to the operator that a message is about to be broadcast, to which he should listen. Signals are also provided which, in case of improper operation, immediately inform the operator of the points at which attention is required."
"The problem of wave propagation along a transmission system composed of an overhead wire parallel to the (plane) surface of the earth, in spite of its great technical importance, does not appear to have been satisfactorily solved.1 While a complete solution of the actual problem is impossible, on account of the inequalities in the earth's surface and its lack of conductive homogeneity, the solution of the problem, where the actual earth is replaced by a plane homogeneous semi-infinite solid, is of considerable theoretical and practical interest. The solution of this problem is given in the present paper, together with formulas for calculating inductive disturbances in neighboring transmission systems."
"It is shown that, aside from the guard ring type of electrode which can only be used with certain special types of measuring circuit, the most accurate results can probably be obtained by the use of equal foil electrodes and making proper allowance for the edge effects. From the standpoint of convenience, mercury electrodes and foil electrodes of unequal size have certain advantages. It is believed that the results obtained with these two types are also sufficiently accurate for most purposes when the corresponding corrections are applied."
"This paper describes the adaptation of the cathode ray oscillograph to the determination of the overload point of vacuum tube amplifiers. Using the input voltage to produce a horizontal deflection, and the output voltage or current to produce a vertical deflection, the amplifier performance is readily determined by noting the resulting figure on the fluorescent screen. So long as the figure is virtually a straight line or an obviously undistorted ellipse, it was found that the amplifier output is free from harmonics. As soon as overloading begins, the oscillogram shows either a sharp bend at either or both extremities of the line or apparent distortion of the ellipse. The method has the advantage of being quick."
"IRRESPECTIVE of the care taken in defining the production procedure, the manufacturer realizes that he cannot make all units of a given kind of product identical. This is equivalent to assuming the existence of non-assignable causes of variation in quality2 of product. Of course, random fluctuations in such factors as humidity, temperature, wear and tear of machinery and the psychological and physiologcal conditions of those individuals engaged in carrying out the manufacturing procedure may give rise to some of these apparently uncontrollable variations. Knowing this, the manufacturer contents himself with trying to produce a product which is uniform and controlled — one which does not vary from one period to another by more than an amount which may be accounted for by a system of chance or nonassignable causes producing variations independent of time."
"The applicability of Poisson's exponential summation to a variety of actual data is illustrated by thirty-two examples of actual frequency-distributions to which the Poisson distribution is a fairly good approximation. The comparison of actual and theoretical distributions is made graphically, using as a background new probability curves showing Poisson's exponential summation with a logarithmic scale for the average. To suggest possible explanations of the observed deviations from the theoretical Poisson distribution consideration is given to the effect on the theoretical distribution of certain modifications in the underlying assumptions, corresponding to conditions under which much actual data must be obtained."
"A mathematical analysis of the bridge polar duplex telegraph circuit, under the condition that the bridge arms are of equal resistance, shows that there is a particular bridge arm resistance which results in maximum received current. As the bridge arm resistances are increased beyond the value giving this maximum, the received current diminishes gradually. On the other hand, as the bridge arm resistances are decreased below the value giving the maximum, the received current drops off very rapidly. It follows that when necessary to limit line current, the maximum received current is obtained by placing the regulating resistance in the bridge arms. Also when the line resistance is large enough to limit the line current to less than the maximum allowable value, a gain may be obtained by increasing the bridge arm resistance to the value which corresponds to maximum received current. Experience has shown that in many situations where difficulty is encountered in operating a duplex telegraph circuit with the regulating resistances in the line, a very decided improvement is obtained by transferring these resistances to the bridge arms."
"Seven telephone channels and one telegraph channel on one single-conductor deep-sea cable have been made possible by the employment of carrier current on one of the two submarine cables across Catalina channel. This is the only application of carrier telephony to deep-sea cables and the system is one of the shortest carrier systems (26 mi.) in commercial operation; it provides more separate carrier channels (six) than has been previously attempted; and it differs in other important respects from other systems. This paper describes this carrier-current system."
"Theory of Vibrating Systems and Sound. I. B. Crandall. Recent years have witnessed a great revival in Acoustics, both as a subject of industrial research and as a field for academic cultivation. This development has been carried on most actively in America and in Germany, and has been measurably due to the demands of the public for commercial acoustic devices in the public address and radio fields. In addition, there has evolved the new subject of Architectural Acoustics, largely through the researches of the late W. C. Sabine and his followers in this country."
"S. E. Anderson, B.S. in E. E., University of Michigan, 1919; Electrical Research Laboratory, General Motors Corporation, Detroit, 1919–20; Engineering Department, Western Electric Company, 1920–24; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. Mr. Anderson has been engaged in the development of carrier systems and radio receivers."
"This paper describes the continuing work on speech power by means of oscillographic studies of vowels, semi-vowels and consonants. A previous paper considered the characteristics of a few individual sounds from the power standpoint, but the principal emphasis was placed upon speech as a whole. In this later analysis, sounds are considered individually on the basis of instantaneous and mean power. A practical application of the results is suggested."
"In order to avoid a considerable reduction in speed of operation, which would have resulted on account of the unusually large parasitic disturbances encountered in the neighborhood of New York, the New York-Azores permalloy loaded cable was equipped with a new type of earth connection consisting of a conductor extending 100 nautical miles to sea and there connected to earth through an artificial line. This paper presents the theory of the new type of sea earthing arrangement and discusses the sources of extraneous interference and the manner in which it is picked up by submarine cables. A method is developed for estimating the magnitude of terminal extraneous interference in the case of any particular cable."
"With the simple means here described for neutralizing mutual interference between parallel telegraph circuits, it has been found practicable to effect a reduction to 10 or 20 per cent of the original values. This has improved considerably the operation of some circuits and made available others which were previously unsuitable. The resulting improvement in transmission has made possible the elimination of certain intermediate telegraph repeaters with material savings. The neutralizing apparatus has no material effect when crossfire is not present, that is, when the paralleling wires are idle. It has been found that the use of arrangements here described on certain long open wire circuits makes possible fast manual full-duplex operation where only medium-speed half-duplex operation was possible before. Furthermore, in the case of some cable circuits where it was impossible to operate more than two telegraph circuits per quad, it is now practicable to obtain four telegraph circuits."
"Given the static characteristic of grid current-grid potential, and plate current-plate potential, for any three element vacuum tube, the general exact equations for the output current when the tube is connected in circuits of any impedance whatsoever, and excited by any variable voltage, are here derived. The method of derivation is illustrated in the special case where resistances only are considered, and the adaptation of complex impedance to use in non-linear equations is shown. Approximations that are allowable in various practical applications are indicated, and the equations are applied in some detail to grid-leak detectors, and in brief to other types of detectors, modulators, amplifiers and oscillators. Certain repetitions of previous work are contained in these pages, as it is believed that the applications of the novel features introduced are illustrated thereby better than by a description dealing only with new material."
"IONIZATIOX, in its most general sense, signifies a segregation of positive from negative charge within the volume of a substance which as a whole is (or initially was) electrically neutral. In practice a gas (for instance) is said to be ionized if charges of either sign can be extracted from it. Charged particles of both signs, electrons and ions, can be drawn out from a gas in which an electrical discharge is being maintained; in such a condition, therefore, a gas is ionized. Millikan's droplets, floating around in a gas which had recently been irradiated, absorbed charges of either sign out of the gas, which therefore was ionized by the radiation and remained ionized for some time afterward. A negatively-charged electrode immersed in a carefully-screened gas receives very little charge from it; this condition continues if the gas is bombarded with electrons having less than a certain speed; let the speed of the bombarding electrons be increased past this limit, and the electrode begins to receive positive charge — the gas is ionized by the electrons. Dilute electrolytic solutions are evidently in a continual and spontaneous state of ionization."
"This paper deals with an analysis of the general requirements of recording and reproducing sound without appreciable distortion. The storing or recording of sound requires, first, a mechanical system which will respond faithfully to the sound waves which are to be recorded. Then there is required some material in or on which this sound may be recorded and an intervening system which permits the sound waves to make the record in this material. In the usual case, and in that which is particularly discussed, there is a mechanical system which will vibrate in response to the sound which is to be recorded and directly through some mechanical linkage, or less directly through an electrical linkage, drives a cutting mechanism which will impress a wax record. The amount of power available to operate the recorder directly from the sound in the recording room is so small as to make the use of high quality electrical apparatus with associated vacuum tube amplifiers of very distinct advantage over the acoustic method. Where the question of reproduction is concerned, the same two alternatives mentioned for recording present themselves, namely, direct use of power derived from the record itself vs. the use of electro-mechanical equipment with an amplifier. In this case, however, the situation is materially different since the power which can be drawn directly from the record is more than sufficient for many uses. It is, therefore, generally simpler to design one single mechanical transmission system than it is to add the unnecessary complications of amplifiers, power supply and associated circuits. In cases where music is to be reproduced in large auditoriums, the power which can be drawn from the record may be insufficient and some form of electrical reproduction using amplifiers becomes necessary. The paper points out, at length, how many of the heretofore unsolved fundamental problems of sound recording and reproduction have been readily solved by the application of a detailed knowledge of telephone transmission theory. The advances which have been effected in telephone transmission theory and in related electrical measuring apparatus in the last few years, have been so great as to surpass previous knowledge of mechanical wave transmission systems. The result is, therefore, that mechanical transmission systems of the type here considered, and perhaps other types, can be designed more successfully if they are viewed as the analogs of electric circuits. A detailed analysis is here made of the analogies between electrical and mechanical systems in the voice frequency range and a discussion of the resulting mechanical design is presented."
"Complex Magnetization.1 Ecgene Peterson. Magnetization of silicon steel by two sinusoidal fields of differing frequencies. The energy loss W per cycle and the flux density B associated with each of the two frequencies were determined when the two sinusoidal magnetizing forces were simultaneously impressed on a toroidal silicon steel core built up of one-mil laminations. A null method was used which permitted suppression of the modulated currents and constancy of the impressed currents during manipulation for balance. The frequencies used were 400, 821 and 1582. Six sets of measurements were taken with fixed magnetizing forces ranging from 0.5 to 10 gilberts cm and superposed forces up to 1.5 gilberts cm. The results show that the effect of superposition depends upon the relative amplitudes and upon the frequency ratio R of the superposed frequency to the other. At low fixed fields W and B go through maxima as the superposed field is increased, the maximum value increasing with R. The maximum is less pronounced or absent for the higher fixed fields. In general B is smaller with a low than with a high value of R other things being equal. The effect on W is not as sharply defined; in general the effect of superposition is more pronounced the higher the superposed frequency. The amplitude effect and frequency ratio effect are shown to be in general agreement with conclusions drawn from mathematical treatment of somewhat simplified cases and it is concluded that the effects are not inconsistent with purely hysteretic phenomena."
"C. F. Sacia, B.E.E., University of Michigan, 1916; Engineering Department of the Western Electric Company, 1916–24; Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., 1925–. Mr. Sacia has been engaged upon methods for recording and analyzing speech."
"A review of the art of loading telephone circuits as practised in the United States. The introductory section briefly reviews the theory of coil loading, and summarizes the principal characteristics of the first commercial standard loading coils and loading systems, thereby serving as a background for the description of the various improvements of outstanding importance which have been made in the loading coils and loading systems during the past fifteen years to meet the new or changing requirements in the rapidly advancing communication art. These major improvements are described in detail under the appropriate headings (1) Phantom Group Loading, (2) Loading for Repeatered Circuits, (3) Incidental Cables in Open Wire Lines, (4) Cross-talk, (5) Telegraphy over Loaded Telephone Circuits, (6) Loading for Exchange Area Cables, and (7) Submarine Cables. The discussion of these various developments sets forth the relations between the loading features and the associated phases of telephone development, such as the cables, repeaters, telegraph working, and carrier telephone and telegraph systems. The concluding part of the paper gives some general statistics regarding the extent of the commercial application of loading in the United States, and a brief statement indicative of the large economic importance of loading to the telephone using public."
"This paper discusses different types of apparatus for recording static and also describes a new instrument in which the output of the set is kept constant by automatic control of the amplification, this amplification then being recorded as the relative measure of static. The set makes use of a fluxmeter with zero restoring torque by means of which the rectified output current arising from static interference is integrated over a period of ten seconds. The following five seconds are required to adjust the gain of the amplifier and record the change in gain from an arbitrary level. The gain is recorded in stops of 4 TU which correspond to a power amplification change by approximately a factor of 2.5. A record is shown during which the intensity of static changed by a factor of more than 10,000."
"Two systematic collections of directive amplitude diagrams are shown for arrays of 2 and of 16 identical antennae spaced at equal distances along a straight line with equal phase differences introduced between the currents in adjacent antennae, assuming that each antenna radiates equally in all directions in the plane of the diagram. Three diagrams show the effect of increasing without limit the number of antennae in a given interval. Two models show the effect of distributing the antennae over an area."
"Recent contributions to the theory of statistics make possible the calculation of the error of the average of a small sample — something that cannot be done accurately with customary error theory. Obviously, these contributions are of very general importance, because experimental and engineering sciences alike rest upon averages which in a majority of cases are determined from small samples, and because an average cannot be used to advantage without its probable error being known. The present paper attempts to show in a simple way why we cannot use customary error theory to calculate the error of the average of a small sample and to show what we should use instead. The points of interest are illustrated with actual data taken for this purpose. The paper closes with applications of the theory to four types of problems involving samples of small size for each of which numerous examples arise in practice. These types are: 1. Determination of error of average. 2. Determination of error of average difference. 3. Determination of most probable value of the root mean square deviation of the universe when only one sample of n pieces has been examined. 4. Determination of most probable value of the root mean square deviation of the universe when several samples of n pieces each have been examined."
"In the development of the commercial system of picture transmission now in operation over certain of the Bell System lines, one of the initial problems was the choice of a method of transforming the light and shade of the picture to be transmitted into properties of an electric current. There are in general two methods of accomplishing this. The first, which we may term the photo-mechanical met hod, utilizes some photographic process to produce a mechanical structure, which may be used either to make and break contact, or to produce mechanical movement of some element whose motion produces a variable electric current. The second method consists in the utilization of some light sensitive device which produces or varies an electric current."
"So far in our discussions of wave propagation in lines and wave-filters, we have confined attention to the case where the impressed voltage is applied directly to the infinitely long line. We have found that, by virtue of this restriction, the indicial admittance functions of the important types of transmission systems are rather easily derived and expressible in terms of well known functions, and the essential phenomena of wave propagation clearly exhibited. In practice, however, we are concerned with lines of finite length with the voltage impressed on the line through a terminal impedance Z1 and the distant end closed by a second terminal impedance Z2. We now take up the problem presented by such a system."
"Cipher Printing Telegraph Systems for Secret Wire and Radio Telegraphic Communications. G. S. Vernam.1 This paper describes a printing telegraph cipher system developed during the World War tor the use of the Signal Corps, U. S. Army. This system is so designed that the messages are in secret form from the time they leave the sender until they are deciphered automatically at the office of the addressee. If copied while en route, the messages cannot he deciphered by an enemy, even though he has full knowledge of the methods and apparatus used. The operation of the equipment is described, as well as the method of using it lor sending messages by wire, mail or radio."
"Thomas Shaw, S.B., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1905; American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Engineering Department, 1905–1919; Department of Development and Research, 1919–. Mr. Shaw's major activities have been devoted to development problems in loading telephone circuits, including the loading apparatus."
"Every measurement is subject to error. This universally accepted truth is the result of every-day experience. From the simplest type of measurement. such as determining the length of a board with an ordinary tape measure, to the most refined type of measurement, such as determining the charge on an electron, errors are bound to creep in."
"A general theory of the sustained oscillations of electro-mechanical systems is presented in the paper. The electrodynamical properties of the telephone transmitter and receiver are described and sufficient numerical data are given to enable one to calculate the intensity and frequency of howling for various types of systems. Detailed consideration is given to the following three systems, namely, one where the transmitter and receiver disphragms are coupled together mechanically by a lever system, one where they are coupled by a small box of air, and one where they are coupled by a long tube of air. The type of electrical circuit to use with each of these systems depends upon the type of performance desired."
"The principal practical applications of the operational calculus in electrotechnics are to the theory of the propagation of current and voltage along transmission systems. Of such transmission systems the simplest is the non-inductive cable. The theory of the non-inductive cable is not only of great historic interest, relating as it does to Kelvin's early work on the possibility of transatlantic telegraphy, but is also of very considerable practical importance today, and serves as a basis for the theory of submarine telegraphy over long distances. We shall therefore consider the propagation phenomena in the non-inductive cable in some detail."
"Abundnt evidence of many kinds exists to show that each and n every distinct sort of atom is especially adapted to possess energy, not in any random quantity whatsoever, hut in certain peculiar, definite, characteristic amounts, An atom having energy in one of these particular amounts apparently cannot add arbitrary quantities to its store, nor yield up arbi trary quanti ties from it; whenever the atom receives or whenever it gives energy, it receives or gives only just so much as is exactly sufficient to raise or reduce its supply to some one among the others of these distinctive quotas. For each of the chemical elements there is a great system of these distinctive energy-values. They are determined chiefly by analyzing spectra, and for most of the elements-i-the exceptions being those of which the spectra are excessively complicated-many of them have been evaluated very accurately and set down in tables. The system of distinctive energy-values for any element is a very important feature of that element; perhaps, indeed, the most important feature of all."
"The paper is based on radio transmission tests from station 2XB in New York City to two outlying field stations. It is a detailed study of fading and distortion of radio signals under night time conditions in a particular region which may or may not be typical. Night time fading tests using constant single frequencies and bands of frequencies in which the receiving observations were recorded by oscillograph show that the fading is selective. By selective fading it is meant that different frequencies do not fade together. From the regularity of the frequency relation between the frequencies which fade together it is concluded that the selective fading is caused by wave interference. The signals appear to reach the receiving point by at least two paths of different lengths. The paths change slowly with reference to each other so that at different times the component waves add or neutralize, going through these conditions progressively. The two major paths by which the interfering waves travel are calculated to have a difference in length of the order of 135 kilometers for the conditions of the tests. Since this difference is greater than the distance directly from transmitter to receiver it is assumed that one path at least must follow a circuitous route, probably reaching upward through higher atmospheric regions. Various theories to explain this are briefly reviewed. The territory about one of the receiving test stations in Connecticut is found under day time conditions to be the seat of a gigantic fixed wave interference or diffraction pattern caused in part by the shadowing of a group of high buildings in New York City. The influence of this pattern on night time fading is discussed. It is considered a contributing but not the controlling effect. Tests using transmission from an ordinary type of broadcasting transmitter show that such transmitters have a dynamic frequency instability or frequency modulation combined with the amplitude modulation. At night the wave interference effects which produce selective fading result in distortion of the signals when frequency modulation is present. It is shown that stabilizing the transmitter frequency eliminates this distortion. A theory explaining the action is given. The distortions predicted by the theory check with the actual distortions observed. A discussion of ordinary modulated carrier transmission, carrier suppression, and single side band transmission is given in relation to selective fading It is shown that the use of a carrier suppression system should reduce fading."
"New Methods and Apporatus for Testing the Acuity of Hearing, Harvey Fletcher.1 This paper presented before the American Otological Society, classifies hearing tests in four groups according to their purpose."
"Bancroft Gherardi. M.K., M.M.E., Cornell University. Engineering assistant, 1895–09; traffic engineer, 1899, New York Telephone Company; chief engineer, New York and New Jersey Telephone Company, 1900–06; assistant chief engineer, New York Telephone Company, and New York and New Jersey Telephone Company, 1900–07; equipment engineer, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, 1907–09; engineer of plant, 1909–18; acting chief engineer, 1918–19; chief engineer, 1919–20; vice-president and chief engineer, 1920–. Mr. Gherardi's work in the field of telephony is too well known to require comment."
"The ideal motion picture has been described as one which is projected stereoscopically in natural color, is free from flicker and rain effects, and is accompanied by audible reproduction of the players' words. We are still some distance from this ideal, but it gives us some idea why developments during the past year have been carried along a few principal lines in efforts to reach this goal. They include the production of many mechanical devices, in which the Germans have been especially active, marked interest in color photography, reduction of non-visible radiation in the light beam before it reaches the film, and more attention to the theatre performance along the lines of co-ordination of the lighting effect, music, and screen picture."
"This paper describes a special lamp base and a special socket for projection lamps. The lamp filament position is set accurately at the basing operation, so that lamps are interchangeable without socket adjustment in projection equipment."
"In This paper I want to discuss some of the problems confronting the exhibitor of motion pictures. These problems do not strictly concern motion picture engineers, yet it is the business of the exhibitor to present to the public the result of your labors. Having been connected with the industry less than two years, I feel much more free to express opinions now than I shall later when I know more about the subject. After all, the membership of this organization is composed of men who are each specializing in some particular line of the work; the exhibitor has the advantage of a more general, if more superficial, view of the art. The subject is almost unlimited in its scope. As it would be futile to try to cover it in one paper, I shall confine myself to the question with which we are immediately concerned. Next year will probably find us working on other problems."
"One cannot be certain whether such a dry subject as washing will interest this Society even though it is of great importance to the motion picture industry."
"There is probably no position in the motion picture industry that offers more trying and hazardous situations than that of the news cinematographer. His exploits in obtaining current events of the day in pictures are replete with thrills and adventures that would in themselves make suitable material for an ideal adventure photoplay. While a considerable part of the current screen news material is made by free lancers and is gathered from all corners of the globe, many of the larger screen news companies employ a trained corps of cinematographers stationed at important cities throughout the country, whose major duty is to scoop an important event or item of news interest."
"The picture transmission system which is now in daily commercial operation over the lines of the Bell System is to be distinguished from earlier efforts toward the same end by two features: First, the pictures as received are completely commercial in their character; that is, they are immediately available for all sorts of technical uses, for which they are in fact practically indistinguishable from original photographs. Second, the system is, unlike earlier experimental systems, so worked out that it utilizes without change the existing telephone channels, whether these be wire or radio. The distance to which pictures may be sent is limited only by the distances over which commercial telphone service is available"
"Abraham Lincoln once said: “God must love the common people, because he made so many of them.” Judged by that standard the motion picture industry surely must love the village theatres, because it has created so very many of them."
"Barely two years ago, the practicability of reflector arc projection was a very much debated question. Under certain limited conditions its success in the laboratory or in the hands of an engineer was beyond question. To one skilled in the handling of optical machinery, the operation of this type of arc illuminant presented no very serious difficulty. But the motion picture engineer was confronted with the problem of how the man in the field-the projectionist-would react to such an unconventional piece of machinery. The field for the reflector arc, obviously, was the small and medium sized theatre, where, in so many instances projection is in the hands of the more or less inexperienced group of projectionists. The many virtues of the reflector arc-all of which hinge upon decreased cost of operation and maintenance-are such as would appeal to just this particular class of motion picture theatres."
"A Complete list of the standards and nomenclature in effect October 1, 1925, has been prepared and included with Volume No. 2 of the Schenectady Transactions"
"DR. A. S New Man representing the Royal Photographic Society of Great Britain and the Kinematograph Manufacturers Association of England read the following address"
"To Determine the value of any means of accomplishing a result one needs to have clearly in mind the nature of the work to be accomplished. It is also advantageous to know quite definitely the fundamental principles involved in the application of the means employed. This is nowhere more true than in the field of education."
"Several years ago our Society invited me to read the paper on “Can the movies teach?” I did. Then I ventured the assertion that there were few or no genuine educational motion pictures."
"The high intensity arc is in many respects so radically different from the plain carbon arc that they are nearly as far separated as is the carbon arc from the incandescent filament. It is true that both are arcs having current passing between spaced electrodes, and both have carbon as the current carrier, but here the resemblance ends. In the carbon arc the carbon itself is the source of light, while in the high intensity arc the carbon is secondary in the production of light and acts as a holder for the real source of light which is a small hotly o f luminous gas. The current density in the carbon are is about 0.33 ampere per square millimeter of crater area, while the current density in the high intensity crater is 1.2 amperes per square millimeter. These differences emphasize the fact that the high intensity are is radically different and requires its own mechanism and technic for its proper operation."
"When developing motion picture film by the rack and tank system it is very difficult to secure uniform development throughout the entire length of the film. Unless special precautions are taken, more development occurs at the top and bottom of the rack where the film passes over the end slats or bars than along the sides, so that bands of greater density occur at intervals corresponding with the height of the rack, which cause an objectionable flicker when the film is projected. These dark markings are termed “rack marks.”"
"Modern the atrical performances are being lighted largely by projected light. For this work, many types and sizes of incandescent lamps, spotlights, and floodlights have been developed. These same types of projectors also find wide application for the lighting of pageants, dance halls, and many other similar institutions. The one unit, however, where the arc lamp spot has reigned supreme has been in the high power spot. Where a long throw is used, and a small intense spot of uniform distribution is required, the Mazda lamp has been unable to compete with the arc. This has been due to several reasons, primarily the greater concentration of light source obtained with the crater of the carbon arc, its high brilliancy, and the lack of a lens system especially adapted to the incandescent lamp."
"In An earlier paper on this subject1 the effect of scratches on the strength of film support, not coated with emulsion or processed, was discussed. It was concluded from the measurements that the “principal effect of a scratch is due to its depth” reducing the effective thickness, and “the idea sometimes expressed that the mechanical strength of such materials as support and similar plastics is greatly dependent upon superficial scratches, and a surface skin does not hold for motion picture film support.” In the discussion the point was raised whether the age of the film and its brittleness would not change the matter, so that scratches would have relatively more effect. A further study has now been made on processed film brought to equilibrium with an atmosphere of definite temperature and humidity."
"During the past ten years the mechanical processes involved in the making of motion pictures have, for the most part, been subjected to critical analyses followed by changes and improvements which have resulted in increased efficiency. Processes of major importance, such as the perforation of the film, the taking of the pictures, and the making of positive prints, are now carried on by means of standardized machines and instruments, the use of which insures surpassingly fine artistic effects and a minimum of production cost. But some minor processes are of major importance, and these have received scant attention. The splicing of film is a case in point. This process has, until recently, been carried on by crude methods which have produced unsatisfactory results. A faulty splice may throw the picture out of frame, trespass upon the picture space, stiffen the film at the point of the splice, or give way altogether. And to the extent that it does any of these things, it makes impossible the production of the perfect motion picture."
"Ever since moving pictures became part of the social life of the people of the United States the need has been felt for that more intimate touch which the amateur motion picture camera and projector would bring to the home. Most people are “movie fans,” and even those who disdain the silver screen would become its ardent supporters if the appeal were made personal."
"A Study of the progress in the motion picture industry for the past six months reveals no outstanding developments of a revolutionary nature. This industry, like the radio and automobile fields, appears to be entering upon a period of improvements and refinements."
"The purpose of this camera is the study of high speed motions—the flight of birds, the movement of animals, the muscular activity of athletes, mechanical motions, etc."
"It is the purpose of this paper to outline those facts concerning the organization and procedure of the Publix Theatre Managers Training School which will be of interest to the members of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers."
"It Takes years to accumulate a fund of musical knowledge before one is able to synchronize the music with the picture. A musician who through ignorance or whim chooses music which burlesques a serious scene commits an offence, he destroys the science and art of musical presentation of motion pictures. One has to have at his command a musical library of a thousand different numbers and a sensitive feeling for their different moods to be able to classify the numbers properly. The well known operatic melodies are not very useful, as they fit only the scene for which they were written and which scene the public visualizes on hearing the music. It is therefore important to consider the key in which each number is written to make a smooth musical bridge from one selection to another. In selecting the most appropriate music, one has to be careful not to anticipate the development of character so as not to stamp immediately the man with the cigarette aa a villain; or, when a particularly beautiful girl enters, not to draw too hastily the third line of the triangle. Again, if one sees a man walk into a room wearing a derby and having a cigar in his mouth, one does not play mysterious music at once, because he may not be a detective after all. Not only is a knowledge of high-class music necessary but also a knowledge of most of the popular and national music with their characteristics of practically all the civilized and uncivilized nations."
"The Subject I have selected is such a broad and ever changing one that several books might be based upon it—and then more books. In this brief paper I can only refer to some present phases of pictures and their public appeal."
"A Glass rod in spite of its transparency is quite visible. The reflections from its surface and interior and the imaging of other objects by refraction make it easy to see. If the rod is lowered into a glass of water, it becomes much less obtrusive and sharply defined; immersed in glycerine, it is practically invisible. Changing the rods environment from air having a refractive index widely different from glass to glycerine with the same index as glass has prevented surface reflection and destroyed the power to deflect a light beam and form images."
"The Animated cartoon was the first form of motion pictures. The early devices which served to create the illusion of motion consisted of a series of drawings made of individual phases in a cycle of motion. The cycle of motion might be a complete step of a running horse. If some means is provided of viewing these individual drawings one after the other at the proper speed, the object will be seen to move."
"In Blowing glass bulbs for projection lamps, there occasionally occurs in the glass small bubbles or slight ridges on the glass known as “striations.” Sometimes, a small mold mark is left in the glass. It seems to be impossible to entirely eliminate all of these little flaws. On several occasions, complaints have been received that blisters in lamp bulbs have been the cause of poor screen illumination. All of these complaints have been indefinite, and no specific data seemed to be available on the subject. In order to determine definitely whether or not there was any such detrimental effect, the authors, conducted a series of tests on lamps of various sizes and in different types of projectors."
"Convincing results in motion picture projection and additive process trichromatic photography were contemporaneous, and it was natural to ask if the two arts could not be combined. The first recorded suggestion is the British patent of Lee and Turner, two young men who were employed in my workshop in London and who with my consent patented a scheme which I disclosed to them but which I told them was of more theoretical than practical interest at that time. I considered it a great joke when their patent rights were afterwards sold for real money; but, as I predicted, the method was not practically satisfactory."
"The Problems of projectionists are so numerous and so widely different in their nature that I have been very careful to keep the last word of the title of this paper singular. If one were to attempt to write on the problems of projectionists in general, I fear he would never live to see the end of that one article. This is therefore confined to my own problems. These I shall state only in a practical way with the hope that others in the Society may help to supply either practical or technical information which will lead to the reduction of my troubles as well as those of many other projectionists and theatre managers."
"The Ultimate and only purpose of the motion picture industry, insofar as theatres, are concerned is to provide a program which the theatre will be able to sell to the public at a profit and to continue to do so indefinitely. The purpose of the motion picture is, in the main, to supply entertainment and amusement. True, there often is an educational element and a viewing of the high spots of the world news of the week intermixed, but the fact remains that at least nine tenths of the motion picture “show” consists of amusement and entertainment."
"The Movies, our perennially infant industry, is no longer so infantile. Many of its first pewlings have already been engulfed in the oblivion of forgotten things. Trick photography was much employed in the production of the first French films. These were extensively “duped” in this country to feed the maw of the first Nickelodeons and store shows that have almost passed from memory. The first efforts of the various producers allied under the banner of the Patents Company made many similar films, some of which attained considerable popularity. “Dreams of a Welch Rarebit Fiend,” “A Trip to Mars,” “Alice in Wonderland,” “Princess Nicotine,” “The Yarn of the Nancy Bell,” “The Absent Minded Professor,” and “The Star of Bethlehem” are names of some of the old trick films made in America that may recall ancient history to the minds of some of my older listeners."
"When Most developing agents become oxidized either by the oxygen in the air or by virtue of performing useful work in reducing a silver emulsion to metallic silver, they are converted to colored products which behave like a solution of a dye towards the gelatin coating on film and stain it uniformly. With developers like pyro, which in alkaline solution readily oxidizes to a reddish brown compound, more or less of the colored oxidation product is deposited along with the silver image during development so that a stain image is obtained. This image increases the effective contrast of the negative but is usually accompanied by more or less general stain.1 Elon and hydroquinone oxidize much less readily than pyro, and in the case of an average elon-hydroquinone motion picture developer which contains a relatively high concentration of sulphite, the rate of oxidation is comparatively slow. The oxidation products of the hydroquinone in this case are most probably hydroquinone mono and di-sodium sulphonates2 which are colorless. The mono-sulphonate is a weak developer and the di-sulphonate does not develop at all. This explains why certain elon-hydroquinone developers on standing in an open tray for two or three days at room temperature may lose their developing power although they become only slightly colored."
"In Connection with a department of my firm which is concerned with the distribution of positive film, I have been interested since very early days in the production of an efficient film cleaning machine. The machine which I am about to describe to you has been installed after much experiment and is one which very satisfactorily cleans and revitalizes dirty film."
"Less than two years ago, leading theatre architects in answer to a survey on the subject expressed it as their belief that the motion picture theatre had reached its maximum size in the 5,000 seat house. Today, we have in course of construction the new Roxy Theatre in New York which will seat 6,200, and there are now those who predict that a cinema palace seating 10,000 is not at all an improbability of the future. Theatres of 4,000 seats are becoming comparatively common when we consider how few houses of this size there were three years ago. Beautiful playhouses of a capacity from 2,000 up have been erected on an unprecedented scale in the metropolitan centers in the past few years."
"There is written somewhere in the Old Testament an injunction which rings with an authority that time cannot destroy. It is: “Set thine house in order.” Alexander Pope, whose barbed couplets have certainly never been excelled and probably never equalled, was so struck by the force of the edict that he once exclaimed: “Order is Heaven's FIRST law.” Whether we are willing to go so far as to agree with the poet that “Order is Heaven's first law” or not is neither here nor there, but we cannot fail to see that in all nature and in all changes the forces of progress are on the side of order and that eternal battle is waged against rebellious chaos and confusion. Even today we see the fight going on all about us, and there is a continuous clashing of arms as civilization marches on."
"A Number of contributions to the question of splicing have already been presented to the Society.1 In particular, at the last convention, Mr. E. J. Denison presented a very valuable paper on “The Importance of Proper Splicing” which has been published in the Transactions of the Society, No. 24. While Mr. Denison's paper covers very fully the ill effects of improper splicing and gives a very good résumé of the conditions which should be fulfilled in making a good splice, it appeared worth while to us in view of the importance of the matter to make a little more intensified study of what might be termed the mechanics of splicing."
"Of the numerous factors which influence the motion picture screen reproduction of object tone values, the effect produced upon contrast by projection lens flare has received relatively little attention. Although this defect of image forming systems has been treated in texts on geometrical optics, the material is not in a form from which conclusions can readily be drawn regarding its practical effect upon image contrast. E. Goldberg1 has very carefully considered the subject of flare in photographic objectives, but since the conditions of projection are essentially different from those existing in the camera, his results are not directly applicable without modification. It is the purpose of this work to examine the relative characteristics of the motion picture positive and its projected image and to attempt a quantitative explanation of the reduction in contrast which takes place upon projection."
"The Pathié Cinema Company wish to announce a film termed Pathé-Rural having the substandard dimensions (17½ mm wide)."
"This investigation was first planned and put into operation by Mr. Courtland Smith and Mr. Pettijohn of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America, Inc., and may be considered in part as related to an investigation which is still going on as to the value of certain methods of processing or treating a positive print for the purpose of adding to the life of the film and increasing its resistance to scratching and wear and tear."
"In 1893, Mr. C. Francis Jenkins by his invention, the phantoscope, gave the world something entirely new; with this machine pictures in motion were projected on a screen. He gave a number of private exhibitions, but the first public exhibition of motion pictures ever presented in America was in 1895 with Jenkins’ invention at the Cotton States Exposition, Atlanta, Georgia."
"In the field of stereoscopic reproduction in motion pictures there seems to be very little if any hope of development. The obstacles seem insurmountable. Briefly stated, the difficulty lies in the fact that we see things stereoscopically because we have two eyes. Each eye sees a different view, and it is the fusing of these two different views into one view that gives us the effect of depth. Now, in order to get the effect of depth in motion pictures, it is necessary to simultaneously project two different views, one view of which is visible only to the right eye, and the other to the left eye. It is obvious that with the naked eyes, each eye will see both views. There does not seem to be any way to show two views at once and have the eyes receive them selectively if we look without the aid of special apparatus. It has long been known, however, that stereoscopic motion pictures could be shown if each observer was supplied with a viewing instrument which made it possible for the right eye to see the right eye picture, and the left eye the left."
"The Developing of 35 mm. positive film, and of 16 mm. reversal film is being accomplished with continuous processing machinery. That the tendency to employ mechanical means is increasing is shown by the patent literature in which a recent application describes a continuous apparatus for handling roll film."
"The Experiences of the United States Department of Agriculture in the production, distribution, and exhibition of educational motion pictures have been of such magnitude that they may offer a measuring stick by which the future development of films of this type may be judged."
"Approximately thirty years ago the birth of the motion picture may be said to have occurred. Newspapers at that time describing the invention, which was exhibited in the Marlborough Hall of the Polytechnic in Regent Street, London, spoke of it as “A contrivance by which a real scene of life and movement may be produced before an audience in a life-size picture.”"
"Motion pictures are about as modern as the Bureau of Standards; both are twentieth century products. As an organized branch of engineering yours is ten years old, the youngest of the family. In 1900, motion picture photography was still in days of hit or miss. Progress in measured control has brought us a developed art. The new motion picture which will add color, stereo-relief, and sounds will be-highly complex in its technical aspects. Standardization and measured control will then more than ever be indispensable; in fact, the trend in all industry today is toward complete measured control standardization."
"In A motion picture laboratory, the fixing bath for positive film is usually discarded after fixing approximately 1000 feet of film per gallon of solution. Such a bath will contain a little more than an ounce of silver per gallon, which at the present market price is worth about $0.65. The exhausted fixing bath, may, therefore, contain about $0.75 worth of silver per gallon; in other words, for each million feet of positive film processed, about $750.00 worth of silver is lost in the fixing bath."
"It Has been suggested that the Society of Motion Picture Engineers might be interested in my experiences in handling motion picture film under various climatic conditions; namely, those I encountered during the time I spent in the North making “Nanook of the North” and during the past two years making “Moana” in the South Seas. We shall not have proceeded very far with this paper before you will understand that my experiences are those of one who has had no technical training and whose entire experience has been gained outside of the laboratories and studios of the motion picture industry. However, it is to be hoped that that which follows may to some extent be illuminating."
"The Manufacturers of tungsten filament lamps are being asked why they are not used to a greater extent for lighting motion picture studios. The idly curious wonder why ordinary stage lighting methods cannot be used and why stage lighting effects cannot be obtained in the “movies.” The picture producing engineers want to improve the quality of their pictures and reduce their producing costs and they wish to know if tungsten lamps will help."
"The Problem of building a theatre involves a multitude of factors which are germane to the ultimate results. Consequently, it is important that due and proper consideration be given to the various factors, and especially to those which are of the most importance."
"The Inspection of film during development is often desirable even though the time and temperature method can be used to produce negatives of a definite development contrast or gamma. Especially in the case of motion picture film, where only one positive material is used for printing all scenes, the production of negatives of fixed density contrast is desirable. In order to obtain this result, the time of development must be varied according to the contrast of the original subject. Also, in ordinary photography, freedom of inspection during development may be of great assistance in obtaining the particular results desired."
"Because the motion picture film cannot be retouched or altered after taking, the cameraman must rely solely on his instrument for the finished effect. Apart from composition, his control is limited to lighting and exposure, each of these requiring careful study and long experience for skillful handling."
"With the rapidly growing importance of motion pictures as a means of disseminating information among farmers, the Office of Motion Pictures of the Department of Agriculture has for some time felt the necessity for providing means of making motion pictures of such natural processes as seed germination, mould formation, plant growth, the development of plant and tree diseases and the like-processes that are too slow to be photographed by hand cranking. Some work of this type was done by hand, using the stopmotion crank, but the obvious limitations of this method made it impracticable. The first machine, as far as this office is concerned, for doing the work automatically was built by Mr. George Georgens, in charge of the laboratory of this office. Lack of time and facilities, however, interfered with carrying this experiment to a conclusion."
"Within the knowledge of your committee this is the first occasion on which the Papers and Publications Committees have been combined. Previous to the term of President Jones, President Porter recommended a combination of the two committees, and this recommendation was adopted by the Board of Governors. President Jones, however, requested a reversal of this decision, and during his term of office the two committees functioned separately."
"Since the publication in 1920 of a paper by one of the present authors and Milton Fillius,1 a large amount of data relative to screen surfaces now being manufactured has been gathered by this laboratory. This work was done largely in response to the urgent request of Mr. F. H. Richardson who assisted materially in the collection of samples from the various screen manufacturers. These data have already been published in part by Mr. Richardson in his “Handbook of Projection” and in the columns of the Moving Picture World"
"The attempt to combine the microscope with the motion picture camera introduces many technical difficulties about which very little has been written. The result is that this branch of photography has been left largely to a few specialists who have had the technical knowledge and the enthusiasm to work out the details—each for himself. Yet the principles involved may be readily grasped and there is no reason why any serious worker, with a little patient application, should not be successful from the very start."
"The making of a first class duplicate negative calls for greater skill and makes greater demands upon the materials than appears at first sight."
"Some wise “gent” once said: “There's nothing new under the sun.” In stating this truth, he was a great liar. Now, slide film is new,—except for the fact that the idea is very old."
"About eight years ago Mr. Max Handschiegl began the coloring of motion picture films by a system generally known by the term ‘imbibition.’ Mr. Handschiegl's previous experience had been in the engraving business in St. Louis and other places and he sought to apply the knowledge gained in that field to the coloring of films. In a broad sense he has utilized the printing press method of inking from a matrix or similar surface."
"There are three methods of printing motion pictures, namely, the step-by-step method, the continuous method, and the optical method by means of a printer which employs a lens to carry the image of the negative to the positive either reduced, enlarged or of the same size. This article describes an optical printer, for the reduction of standard size negatives to 16 mm. positives, Fig. 1."
"By The term ‘Printing of Film’ is very often implied the whole process required to produce from the negative a copy ready for screening."
"It Was about 1908 that I first commenced to make motion pictures of wild song birds. My camera was an English Urban box camera, fitted with a 3 inch Carl Zeiss F 3.5 lens and holding 150 feet of negative. I well remember that my first subject was a house wren. Inasmuch as this bird is one of our smallest species, I soon found that, in order to secure an image of satisfactory size for projection purposes, I was obliged to get closer to the wrens than met their approval."
"In All the realm of the entire motion picture industry, I know of no one thing so urgently in need of careful, intelligent attention, and what might be termed revolutionary action, as is the position or office of Supervisor of Projection."
"Film distributing organizations are making an effort to keep film in good condition in its passage from theater to theater. Nevertheless, by the time it reaches the smaller houses its state of preservation may be exceedingly poor, a fact which cannot but prejudice the entertainment value."
"Sixteen Years ago a new industry was established in America—the dissemination of world news through the medium of motion pictures. The evolution of news recording has kept pace with the progress of civilization, for, in a large measure, such progress is dependent upon intercommunication between the different peoples of the world. From its lowly beginning of symbol carving in stone, through the hieroglyphic stage, the ancient papyrus, this business of news dissemination has in the last few years developed a new medium—the motion picture—so that not only can the people of one country be told of the activities and achievements of their fellow men in distant lands, but also they can actually see these activities and accomplishments."
"Motion Picture instruction has only a brief history to relate at best and it is because no coherent and comprehensive plan for training students in the technical branches of motion picture production is yet in existence that this paper is presented."
"At No period in a man's history is introspection and readjustment more necessary than in the transition stage from boyhood to maturity. What is true of the individual is not untrue of a collection of individuals working as one unit under the banner of n ‘Society’. You will probably agree with me that our Society of Motion Picture Engineers is in some transition stage and will come to no harm if it indulges in a little self-inquiry."
"For the purpose of the following notes the definition of stereo-scopy is the obtaining of two pictures from view points separated by the interpupillary distance and the presentment of the right-hand picture to the right eye and the left-hand picture to the left eye."
"This is the second term during which the Papers and Publications Committees have functioned as a unit. As is the case with all committees whose members are widely separated geographically, most of the actual committee work has to be done by the chairman. The serious difficulty in the way of continuing the combination of the two committees is the enormous amount of work involved. The combination experiment has demonstrated the urgent necessity of the establishment of a permanent secretary for the Society, to carry out the more arduous duties of the various committees."
"Too often historical references are very incomplete due to a lack of appreciation, at the time events occur, of their future value or significance. Motion pictures in the future will be of even greater value than were still photographs in the past and the request recently made to President Coolidge, that twenty vaults of the proposed two million dollar Archives Building be set aside for the storage of films of value to posterity, is worthy of especial attention.1 The President expressed himself as being favorably impressed with the idea."
"A Report was prepared for presentation at the Spring Meeting but on account of not having a quorum of voting members present when the report was called for, it was deferred until the Fall Meeting. The following is a report for the Spring and Fall Meeting"
"One of the most difficult questions for the motion picture engineer is that of the dimensions of sprockets. An incorrectly sized sprocket produces in most cases rapid destruction of the film. For this reason committees on standards in various countries have worked on the dimensions of films and of sprockets. A definite international agreement would be of great value both for the manufacturers and for the users of motion picture apparatus. This question was discussed at length at the International Congress of Photography held last year in Paris, and the details of the discussion have been published in the Comptes rendus of the Congress. The decisions which are of especial interest to us from the point of view that we propose to discuss are those relative to the pitch of the film, to the height of the perforations, and to the maximum shrinkage allowed. A pitch of 4.75 mm. has been adopted, a height of the perforation of 2 mm., and a shrinkage of 1.5%. No opposition having been offered to these dimensions, we may consider them in future as the standard dimensions accepted officially."
"It Has frequently appeared to me that the obligation of the motion picture industry to its technicians is not properly or proportionately recognized. It seems to be common practice to lavish almost inordinate praise and compliment upon practically every other factor responsible for a great motion picture, but the technical advance which makes such pictures possible is either hardly noted or ignored completely."
"A Year ago when addressing your body, I confined myself to the problems which were uppermost in my mind, having the idea that, sitting back a year later and taking stock, I should probably find other problems awaiting solution. This year I have only two subjects on my mind. The first is the problem of selecting the feature."
"All art movements have their inception in minorities. In the beginning, their purposes are regarded with indifference, often with suspicion. But if their aims are sound, they slowly pass through various progressive stages of transition which ultimately evolve into the practical. Certain art movements, of course, are exceptions to this process, but these exceptions are so individualized and egomotivated as to be of little use to civilization excepting as passing phenomena of the life-spectacle"
"Although as far back as 1900 I first dreamed of some day building a new phonograph in which the photographic emulsion should replace wax, and a ray of light the steel or sapphire needle, yet it was not until 1918 that my attention was really focused on the field of talking pictures, or more broadly of recording sound by photographic means."
"We, In the First National organization, are very much interested in the work and the aims of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers because we know that all of its activities are directed toward the betterment of the film industry as a whole."
"When Mr. Will H. Hays, head of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America, suggested recently to President Coolidge that the Government of the United States should make efforts toward the preservation of motion-picture films possessing historical value, he brought to public attention a need that has been increasingly realized by those who believe in the value of a visual record of the great events of our Nation and of the world."
"Ahasty review of the history of spotlighting reveals the fact that progress in this branch of light projection has been confined almost entirely to the mechanical side of the problem; the principal exception being a substitution of the electric arc for the earlier sources of lesser brightness."
"The purpose of this paper is to treat the subject of light sources in motion picture work from the physical point of view. A number of interesting and useful papers on light sources based on other considerations are contained in our Transactions, and an attempt will be made not to repeat data that has been covered in these previous papers. In this discussion the physical causes of light production rather than the sources of energy or types of apparatus will be used as a basis. There are a number of ways in which matter may be agitated so that it will produce light. The agitation or disturbance may be obtained by a variety of means; the flow of electric current, chemical action, such as combustion, etc. The different types of light production are principally as follows : fluorescence, phosphorescence, iuminescence, solid incandescence, and flame incandescence"
"A Few years ago a public official in addressing a national welfare organization made the following startling prophecy"
"Every large film producing organization now has its trick and miniature departments. These are used to cut down costs, produce impossible situations, create dramatic suspense without danger to the actors, to save moving from one part of the globe to another with a cast, and to enhance comedy situations."
"Photographic materials, from the standpoint of their sensitivity to light of different color, may be divided into three classes: ordinary, orthochromatic, and panchromatic. Those belonging to the class designated as ordinary, or blue sensitive, are sensitive only to blue and blue-green and do not respond appreciably to green, yellow, or red. As typical of this class may be mentioned Eastman Commercial Film and Eastman 40 Plates. By the use of suitable sensitizing dyes photographic materials can be made which, in addition to the blue sensitivity of the ordinary type, are sensitive also to green. They are usually referred to as orthochromatic and the Par and Super Speed Motion Picture Negative film fall in this class. The use of additional dye sensitizers gives a material which is sensitive also to yellow, orange, and red, thus providing photographic film which responds to the entire visible spectrum. These materials are designated as panchromatic and of this class Eastman Panchromatic Motion Picture Negative is a typical example. All of these materials in addition to their sensitivity to visible light are sensitive to those invisible radiations commonly referred to as the ultra-violet. By the use of certain sensitizing dyes the sensitivity can also be extended into the region of longer wave-lengths known as the infra-red. For a more complete discussion of this question of the color sensitivity of various types of photographic materials reference should be made to a paper by C. E. K. Mees.1"
