"This paper covers interesting developments in the manufacture of copper wire and contains a description of a copper rod and wire mill designed to meet the new requirements. It also includes a brief survey of the copper rolling and wire drawing art at the time the investigation was started; a summary of tests made in varying the practise in rod rolling and wire drawing, and an outline of the work done by the Bell System engineers in developing and designing new types of wire drawing machinery. The economies in floor space and plant investment due to the use of more compact and higher-speed machinery are outlined. Some of the outstanding features in plant arrangement which contribute to more efficient operation are discussed in the concluding pages."
"There are very few data available on the problems of using alternating current when applied directly to a motor on an elevator. It is apparent, also, that eventually there will be no d-c. power transmitted for elevator service. Because of these facts and the size of this industry it seems that such data should be available. A paper covering the entire field in detail would be excessively long and it is therefore the aim of this paper to cover the subject in a general way, giving such outstanding facts as are felt to be of most interest at this time. It is hoped also to correct a false impression that is sometimes found to exist-that an a-c. elevator is not practical for car speeds above 350 ft. per min. Without question, this understanding was correct six or seven years ago but it is desired to call attention to the fact that for the past five years many a-c. elevators have been installed with car speeds in excess of 500 ft. per min. and today some are operating as high as 700 ft. per min., and nothing has appeared to indicate that there is a limit of car speed other than for any other type of control. A brief outline of the necessary requirements of the elevator machine is given because as yet the development of a-c. elevators has depended upon the success of this unit."
"This paper deals with an optical method applied to watthour meter testing. The method as presented overcomes, to a great extent, personal error, and lessens the time required through the use of measured light impulses. It gives instantaneous comparison between watt-seconds on two measuring devices. The objects of this method are: First: To reduce the time of laboratory tests, acceptance tests, and re-calibration. Second: To reduce personal error, and to increase the accuracy of the test. Third: To provide a device that gives precision instrument accuracy. Fourth: To make time devices in precision tests unnecessary."
"The question of changes in the registration of watthour meters due to variations in temperature is receiving considerable attention at the present time from manufacturers and public utilities alike. This paper discusses the development of a temperature compensated watthour meter. The effect of certain changes in the fundamental constants of the meter circuits and the materials of certain vital parts are shown to point out the necessity of two independent compensating devices. The compensating devices found most effective consist, first, of a permanent magnet flux diverter mounted on bimetal strips in such a way that it shunts more or less of the permanent magnet flux around the disk, on a decrease or an increase in temperature, respectively, and second, a moving lag plate controlled by bimetal strips arranged in such a way as to cause the plate to move up or down with an increase or a decrease of temperature, respectively. In Appendix I is given the construction of a theoretical vector diagram of an induction type watthour meter showing the relative phase positions of the various fluxes, Voltages, and currents that are present. In Appendix II is given a discussion of the sources of temperature errors in watthour-meters as derived from an analytical study of this diagram. An attempt is also made in this paper to summarize these sources, the reason for their existence, and their effect upon the registration of the meter, in convenient tabular form."
"The function of a resistance modulator is to produce in an electric circuit a current which is a copy of an exciting impulse such as speech or light waves. The principal example is the carbon granule telephone transmitter. It is desirable that the electric current be an exact copy of the exciting impulse. There is inherent in such a device however, a distorting effect, for the current copy is produced by reason of Ohm's law and thus is an inverse function of the modulated resistance and not a true copy of it. The amount of distortion arising from this effect depends upon the electrical constants of the modulator and its associated circuit. The study quantitatively analyzes this distorting effect by two methods in a circuit containing a modulator, a battery, and a resistance for single frequency modulation, and by one of the methods for double frequency modulation. An analysis is also developed for a special test circuit. The study shows that the relation between modulators and circuits is a design problem."
"There is described in this paper a system of continuous signals operating within the cab of a railway locomotive. This system was developed in an effort to provide more reliable and safer signals than the common semaphore or light signals. The particular type of system is called the three-speed, continuous-control signal system. It has been adopted quite extensively by the Atchinson, Topeka, and Santa Fe Railway System."
"The rapid advances made in the application of automatic principles to the control of electrical energy have produced many new and novel installations. This paper describes a supervisory system which centralizes the control and indication of all power used in operating a modern interurban railroad. Supervision is accomplished over a single circuit consisting of one insulated wire with ground return. A single frequency carrier current is used for transmitting all signals over the circuit connecting all stations. Considerable attention has been given to make the equipment simple in design, rugged in construction, easy to install, and convenient to maintain."
"Steel-enclosed mercury arc rectifiers, due to their advantages over rotary converters in efficiency, ease and reliability of operation, and ability to produce high d-c. voltages, are gradually replacing other forms of converters in all fields of application. There are at present 600,000 kw. of rectifier installations, distributed over different parts of the world. Statistical data are given showing the growth of installed rectifier capacity since 1911, the distribution of rectifiers over various fields of application, and their increasing use at higher voltages for railways. The high efficiency and reliability of rectifiers at high voltages will undoubtedly influence the selection of systems and voltages for main-line electrification. Comparative operating figures are given for rectifiers and motor-generator sets at 3000 volts d-c. Several types of Brown Boveri rectifiers and their load curves are shown. Due to the fact that the d-c. voltage of a rectifier consists of portions of sine waves, the voltage wave is some-what undulated. The magnitude of the undulations depends on the number of phases and varies with the load. The effect of the undulations in the voltage wave on the shape of the current wave for various types of loads is discussed, and oscillograms of the voltage and current waves of a rectifier feeding a railway load under various conditions are shown. The effects of the undulations on different kinds of load-batteries, lighting, and power circuits-and on communication circuits paralleling the d-c. feeders are discussed briefly."
"As in other industries, electricity has taken the lead in the petroleum industry in putting the drilling of oil wells on an engineering basis and as a result of numerous installations it can be said that oil companies in general at the present time have a very receptive attitude toward electric drilling. Satisfied drillers, easy operation, low maintenance, low power bills, fever shut downs, perfect motion, faster drilling, heavier pulling, no stand-by losses-all these factors have contributed to make electricity the coming accepted standard by which all other forms of oil-well drilling will be judged."
"The advantages of electric drive for cement mills are enumerated in this paper and general pointers on installing electrical equipment are given. The electrical installation recently made in a modern cement plant is described."
"The application of electric power in the steel industry introduced many radical changes and improvements in rolling-mill layout and practise. The electric drives, of capacities larger than encountered elsewhere, are usually designed to fit individual cases. Special machines or special combinations of them-are frequently used. Several representative cases are outlined, and some methods of solving the encountered problems are analyzed."
"A thermovoltmeter having a special form of shielding, for use in the accurate measurement of voltage at radio frequencies was described in 1924 in, a paper by Mr. Leon T. Wilson. This instrument has since been developed into a commercial form, and this paper describes the technique for using it in a few of its practical applications. The voltmeter correctly indicates the voltage at its terminals for any frequency up to about 1500 kilocycles. For low frequencies the instrument is used exactly as an ordinary voltmeter. For high frequencies, it is necessary to pay especial attention to the external connections, in order that the voltage desired to be measured shall be applied unchanged to the voltmeter binding posts. Methods are described for measuring the radio frequency resistance and inductance of coils, and for establishing a definite voltage across a circuit such as the input circuit of an amplifier."
"The use of a series resonant circuit for the measurement of the resistance of coils and capacitors at high frequencies is discussed. The circuit is tuned with the unknown in circuit and with it removed, introducing sufficient resistance to keep the current constant. From the condition of constant current, and the circuit constants, the constants of the unknown are derived. The derivation of the expression for the resistance of a capacitor involves certain assumptions which are shown to be justified for frequencies at which coils and capacitors are now generally used. Sources of error are pointed out and discussed. In the measurement of resistances of the order of two ohms and larger, the precision of the method is of the order of one per cent. A change of circuit resistance of approximately 0.02 ohm can be measured."
"The necessity for an accurate ammeter for large high-frequency currents is pointed out. A new device consisting of a large condenser in parallel with a small condenser, and the latter carrying the current to a small thermocouple ammeter, is described. A device of this nature can be made very accurate; in fact, comparable in accuracy to any available standards. The construction of the device includes provisions for restricting the electrostatic and electromagnetic field, due to large current, the reduction of distributed inductance and capacity, and a provision to prevent the resonance effect of high harmonics of the operating current. Provisions are also made for locating the measuring instrument at a distance from the circuit. Large ratings are possible by connecting a number of condenser blocks in parallel."
"This paper presents a review of successful methods of measuring several classes of radio waves, (a) sinusoidal waves of frequencies below 1000 kilocycles and (b) sinusoidal waves of frequencies above 1000 kilocycles, (c) telegraph dots and dashes and (d) static."
"The practise of making quantitative measurements on the individual units of radio receivers is quite general, but seldom are such measurements made on receivers as a whole because of certain difficulties encountered in this type of measurement. This paper describes apparatus developed to overcome these difficulties and to make possible a study of the performance of receivers as such. The over-all characteristics of receivers are classified and described, the method of tests for obtaining measurements on them explained, with some curves shown to illustrate the results obtained from these tests."
"This paper describes briefly a testing technique which has been developed for making line measurements at high frequencies in connection with the application of carrier telephone and telegraph systems in the Bell System. The measurement of line attenuation, impedance, and cross-talk up to frequencies as high as 50,000 cycles is described, using a number of specially developed and standardized high-frequency apparatus units. These include an oscillator, a detector-amplifier, an impedance bridge, a thermomilliammeter set, a variable attenuator, a cross-talk set, and a frequency meter. A brief description of the individual units is given, as well as their coordinated use in complete testing circuits."
"This paper outlines the problem of measuring the insulation of open-wire telephone circuits in the frequency range from 3000 to 50,000 cycles, and discusses a method which has been used in the experimental study of insulator losses at these frequencies. The paper includes a description of a special line which has been constructed for the testing of insulators, an explanation of the essentials of the measuring technique, and a brief summary of the results which have been obtained."
"This paper describes precision high-frequency measurements of a fundamental type, special emphasis being placed on the measuring circuits rather than on the types of apparatus measured. Standards of frequency, resistance, capacitance, and inductance are discussed briefly. Bridge measurements are described for the measurement of frequency, inductance, effective resistance, capacitance, dielectric loss, capacitance balance, and inductance balance, Circuits for the measurement of other high-frequency characteristics such as attenuation, gain, cross-talk, and modulation are included."
"Experimental determinations of the impedance of a variable element, such as an iron core coil worked at a high flux density, or a heavily loaded vacuum tube, are found to depend upon the impedance-frequency characteristics of the measuring circuit, as well as upon the complexity of the applied (measuring) potential wave. A physical picture of the action of a non-linear element in producing harmonics is built up, and it is shown that the flow of harmonic currents affects the measured impedance, at the fundamental frequency, of course, in two ways which are designated as the loading and reaction effects. The loading effect is that produced by the superposition of currents without any regard to the production of new frequencies, and the reaction effect, in accordance with energy conservation ideas, is that due to energy storage and dissipation at harmonic frequencies which appear as impedance reactions at the fundamental frequency. The physical picture set up in the above discussion appears to be capable of accounting for the experimental observations mentioned above in a qualitative way at least. In accordance with these ideas, it appears that even when the fundamental current is specified, there is no one definite value which can be assigned as the impedance of a variable element because of its dependence upon the circuit impedance-frequency characteristics. Several measuring methods are reviewed by which the impedance of the variable element may be determined under definite circuit conditions."
"In many problems dealing with electric waves, particularly those encountered in electrical communication, it is necessary to examine with some care the several sinusoidal components present. Both qualitative and quantitative methods are in use. A convenient qualitative examination may be made by heterodyning the complex wave with a sinusoidal wave of variable frequency and providing means for detecting any low frequency beat currents which may be produced. In practically all methods for the quantitative measurement of the individual components of a complex wave, means are provided for selecting a single component and for preventing other components from reaching the indicating apparatus. The general arrangement of the selecting and measuring elements depends upon the character of the information sought. If the problem involves an exploration of the frequency range of the complex wave, primarily for the purpose of determining what components may be present, automatic analyzers are available which cover the field point by point and plot its spectrum. There are also analyzers which permit the field to be covered by heterodyning with a variable frequency so as to cause the resulting wave to be swept across a fixed selective circuit. For the precise measurement of any single component, particularly a component of small amplitude in the presence of others of larger amplitudes, analyzers have been developed which employ the well known heterodyne principle which utilizes selectivity at a frequency below that of the unknown wave, thus effecting an appreciable increase in the percentage separation between adjacent components."
"A new form of vacuum tube voltmeter that has certain merits not possessed by existing instruments is described by this paper. Advantage is taken of the properties of a bridge circuit, one of whose arms is the plate-filament impedance of a common three-element pliotron to permit the building of very sturdy instruments of unusual sensitivity and dependability."
"A method is described for using a cathode-ray oscillograph for the simultaneous observation of a number of variable quantities by means of a distributor. A linear time-axis, obtained by means of a gas-discharge lamp connected to a source of direct-current through a resistance or thermionic tube, is stabilized by introducing into this circuit a small e. m. f. derived from the same source that supplies the unknown quantities under observation. By making stabilization definitive rather than casual, distortion is avoided. The unknown quantities are thus shown in a form convenient for observation, appearing as stationary curves plotted with time as abscissa. The curves may be superposed about a common zero line, or displaced with reference to each other with separate zero lines. The name oscilloscope is applied to the apparatus here described, assembled as an instrument."
"The problem of locating opens in telephone cable conductors involves the determination of impedances. A study has been made of the degree of accuracy and sensitivity obtainable in impedance measurements with different frequencies of supply voltage. For long cables the input impedance is a hyperbolic rather than linear function of the characteristic impedance. The error in impedance measurement arising from this functional departure proves to be least for the lower frequencies. On the other hand, the bridge sensitivity is improved by somewhat higher frequencies. A mathematical and experimental analysis of the sensitivity of impedance measurements in cable fault location by means of a de Sauty bridge indicates the desirability of using frequencies of the order of four cycles. The sensitivity is further increased by controlling the phase of the field excitation of the bridge galvanometer. This improved open location method and equipment are sufficiently accurate that in practically all cases a fault in a 60-mile length of cable may be located within a maximum variation of plus or minus one-half the length of a cable section (a section is the length of cable between splices-about 750 ft.), and therefore enables one to select, prior to the opening of the cable, one or the other of the two splices between which the fault lies. This degree of accuracy is very desirable for practical reasons."
"A visual method of obtaining bridge balance by means of a d-c. microammeter in the plate circuit of an electron tube detector associated with one or more stage of amplification, which gives maximum reading for a state of bridge balance, thereby permitting use of a sensitive meter. A large bridge unbalance reduces the deflection to a low value and as the balance is approached the reading increases. This method overcomes the limitations of the aural method and renders a quantitative determination of the degree of unbalance."
"The general case considered is that of N independent electric circuits placed in a medium of variable permeability and subject to saturation, in parts or as a whole. The problem is to determine the component (in a given direction) of the mechanical force acting upon one of the electric circuits, upon a group of circuits, or upon a group of circuits with part of the magnetic medium rigidly attached to them. It is believed that the problem has not been solved in this general form, heretofore. Use is made of the expression for the stored electromagnetic energy, W, of the system, assuming all the electric circuits to be originally open and then closed one by one. Such a treatment necessitates a number of partial saturation curves, giving g the linkages with each individual electric circuit when some of the remaining circuits are closed and the rest are open. A virtual displacement, δ s, is then given to the part of the system under consideration, keeping either the linkages or the currents constant, and the mechanical force, F, is determined from a comparison of the work done, F. δ s, with the change in the stored energy, δ W. It is shown that the familiar reciprocal relationship for the mutual inductance, M12 = M21, which holds true in a medium without saturation, can be generalized to a more involved integral expression for a saturated medium."
"A formula is derived for the mechanical force in a circle of round wire, due to its own current. A formula, F = I2 logh a1/a2, is also derived for the longitudinal force exerted on a round conductor, due to its own current, where it changes its diameter. Where there is a constriction in a liquid conductor, this force acts in both directions away from the constriction, thus tending to accentuate it. It may be that this has more to do with the rupturing of a liquid conductor by heavy current, than the better known forces acting in a radial direction, which have been usually referred to under the name ``pinch effect.''"
"This paper presents a simple laboratory method of measuring the mechanical forces exerted on the parts of a complete circuit due to current flowing in the circuit. Tests, using the method, show that the ``classic'' methods of computing such forces are reliable. Curves are included which show the comparison between the theoretical and measured forces. Tests were made on a rectangular circuit, representing a disconnecting switch, and on a circle of round wire."
"In this paper a method of calculating the mechanical forces in transformers, based on mutual reactance between coils, is presented. A formula for the mutual inductance between coaxial solenoids is developed and from this expression the formula for the mechanical force between concentric cylindrical transformer coils is derived. The same method is followed to obtain the formula giving the mechanical force between individual coaxial coils. The method is checked by calculations of reactance of complicated arrangements of coils. Tables are given to facilitate calculations."
"Changing the voltage ratio of transformers under load is now a recognized and established procedure. Methods of changing taps under load are discussed, illustrated, and compared. Equipment for obtaining smooth curve voltage control is discussed, as well as combination voltage and phase-angle control."
"Operating characteristics of interconnected systems in which voltage is maintained constant by varying field of the generators is compared with operating characteristics, when, in addition to the control of generator field, transformers equipped with ratio control are employed. The use of transformers with variable ratio introduces a flexibility in operation which permits the division of wattless currents between generating stations independent of voltage held at the generator busses. A comparison is made of the use of synchronous condensers for the purpose of improving regulation as compared with the use of transformers equipped with ratio control. The elementary conditions which govern the current distribution in a loop, L, are determined in terms of impedance characteristics of the net-work. The equipments necessary to control the current distribution and at the same time maintain good regulation in the loop are indicated."
"Sparking voltages and gradients in air between spheres of unequal diameters and between two cylinders placed with their axes perpendicular to each other in space (called cross-cylinders) have been determined. Complete tables giving the coefficients of gradient corresponding to any given spacing and radii, have been tabulated, the formulas used being those of Kirchhoff and Russell. For cross-cylinders, an approximate formula has been developed. In the theoretical discussions, the more definite form of the theory of ionization by collision as given by Bergen Davis has been extended to the sphere-gap and a relation has been deduced to account for the variation of the sparking gradient as investigated in the first part of this work, which is in substantial agreement with those found by F. W. Peek, A. Russell, and others."
"This paper covers Chapters VII, VIII, and IX of a thesis presented by the author to the Faculty of the Graduate School of Cornell University, for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. In this thesis a summary is made of the experimental facts regarding the anomalous behavior of solid insulating materials under varying conditions of potential, time, temperature, frequency, humidity, ionizing radiations, and various other factors. A bibliography containing about 400 articles dealing with experimental and theoretical research is appended to the thesis. These articles are chronologically arranged and numbered. Five tables are given, including references to experimental research done on (a) dielectric resistivity, (b) dielectric charge and discharge, (c) dielectric constant, (d) dielectric strength, (e) dielectric energy loss. Hypotheses are here established which account, in a general way, for the observed behavior of solid dielectrics. Definitions of the resistivity, permittivity, electric charge, and electric strength of solid dielectrics under both continuous and alternating potentials are submitted. Terms are introduced and defined: e. g., the ''(I-t)-characteristic,'' the ''electrization curve,'' and the ''hystero-viscosity loop.'' The various energy losses occurring in dielectrics are traced to their sources and subdivided into hysteresis, viscosity, and resistance losses. Methods are devised for separating the total dissipated energy into its three component parts. Finally, the classical theory is shown to apply to imperfect solid dielectrics if the submitted definitions and terms be adopted."
"This paper presents some of the results of a series of high-voltage tests on cables and insulators, extending over a period of eight years, to determine the electrical characteristics of the insulation. Leakage current, insulation resistance, and watt input tests were made with direct and alternating current. Paper-insulated and rubber-insulated cables and a 27,000-volt porcelain insulator were tested. From these tests several conclusions were drawn, the principal ones being as follows: 1. Insulation resistance of paper and rubber-insulated power cables increases to a maximum with increasing applied d-c. voltage, the characteristic depending upon the temperature. 2. It is necessary to use shields as well as guards in making tests to determine the electrical characteristics of cable insulation under d-c. voltage stresses above the ionization point. 3. The watt input to the insulation of a paper cable under d-c. stress, at a given temperature, depends upon the character of the voltage wave; the greater the ripple, the greater the watt input. 4. It is necessary to use shields as well as guards in making tests on short cable samples to determine the a-c. electrical characteristics, such as dielectric loss of cable insulation under voltage stresses above the ionization point. 5. The ionization point is very variable depending upon the physical circuit, together with the atmospheric conditions, and represents, in reality, local air breakdown. 6. The better (i. e."
"Certain principles are presented for solving non-harmonic a-c. problems. Graphical methods are already well known for solving practically any problem, when currents and electromotive forces are sinusoidal, by vector diagrams in a plane. In certain special cases such diagrams give correct results when currents and electromotive forces are non-sinusoidal, but in general diagrams in more than two dimensions are necessary. A wide range of material, some of which has been published before in scattered places, is brought into relation; no single general solution seems attainable. A bibliography with 61 references is appended."
"This paper gives a brief outline of the history and general development of automatic switching equipments in the United States and Europe, as applied to power equipment. A general review is made of the advantages of automatic equipments, consisting not only of a saving in operating expenses, but also of better operating characteristics as compared with manually controlled stations. The various designing problems, adherent thereto, are pointed out. A comparison based on personal observation is made between the conditions in the United States and Europe, which accounts for the less rapid development and less extensive applications of automatic equipments in Europe, and a brief review is made of the results obtained in the latter years. Mention is made of the more recent applications, such as to mercury arc rectifiers. A brief description is also given of supervisory control systems, the development of which has progressed hand in hand with the automatic equipments. The accompanying illustrations show some typical modern American and European installations."
"The use of power factor corrective devices on distribution circuits is justified, under certain conditions, by rather substantial savings in investment charges and by a reduction in the power losses of the system. The object of the present paper is to develop a practical working formula for calculating the most economical corrected power factor for a distribution circuit. Most economical conditions are assumed when the total of such annual circuit costs as are directly affected by a change in power factor, is a minimum. The usual methods for computing separately, the saving in I2 R losses and the decrease in investment charges due to power factor improvement, are inadequate. Particularly in the design of new circuits and extensions has the need for a more accurate method for calculating optimum power factor and conductor sizes been expressed.2 Since these equations were originally worked out, two other solutions for the most economical corrected power-factor angle have been published, each having been obtained independently of the other. Menjelou3 obtained his formula in the form: α sin θ = 1 - ß tan θ in which θ is the power-factor angle and α and ß are constants computed from the circuit costs. Stevenson4 obtained a similar expression: sin θ = δ - η tan θ the difference lying in the constants to be evaluated. The equation developed in this paper reduces to the simple form."
"This paper considers the instability which sometimes occurs in banks of transformers supplying a capacity load when certain harmonics in the primary current are suppressed, either by the type of transformer connections or by a resonant circuit in series with the primary of the transformer, and the similarity between the several unstable circuits is pointed out. Curves showing the triple-frequency voltage distortion as a function of the capacity load have been included for two of the unstable circuits. For one case, oscillograms taken during the instablity are shown. An explanation, substantiated by actual analyses, has been brought forward for the simplest unstable circuit, consisting of three branches connected in Y across a three-phase line with balanced, sinusoidal line voltages, with the neutral unconnected, each branch of the Y consisting of an iron-cored reactance in parallel with a capacity. This explanation is extended to the other cases, two with experimental evidence as justification, and the third by analogy only."
"The torque produced by a short circuit or other transient will produce a corresponding acceleration of the rotor. If the rotor is not connected to a load the acceleration of the rotor will be directly proportional to the torque. A small instrument is described which can be attached to the end of the shaft of the machine to be tested. This instrument records the instantaneous acceleration of the rotor, the corresponding torque being calculated. The acceleration is measured by two separate methods. The first method gives points on an acceleration-time curve and the second gives a continuous record of the torque. The acceleration is recorded on the oscillogram so that by using a six element oscillograph a simultaneous record can be obtained showing both the acceleration and the shortcircuit currents. The mechanism for closing the short circuit at the desired point of the voltage wave and the method of checking the accuracy of the instrument are also described. A record from an actual short-circuit test is shown. The results of the tests will be discussed in a later paper. The instrument can also be used for measuring sudden shocks on motors and other rotating machinery."
"As a sequel to an earlier investigation and development of a method for the reduction of core-loss measurement to sinewave basis, this paper describes two methods developed for the reduction of exciting current to sine-wave basis. The first method consists of making two measurements at wave shapes as widely different as possible, setting the voltage in each case by means of the flux voltmeter. The current corresponding to sine-wave voltage is obtained by extrapolation from the observed values of currents and form factors. Although the method might be considered to some extent empirical, it is found to yield an accuracy within one per cent even under extremely unfavorable conditions. The second method utilizes as before the flux voltmeter for setting the voltage but uses a ``crest ammeter'' (developed for this purpose) for reading the instantaneous maximum values of the corresponding currents. Measurements are made at 100 per cent, 86.6 per cent and 50 per cent voltages. These data determine the fundamental, third and fifth harmonics of the exciting current corresponding to sine-wave voltage and hence the exciting current itself, because these harmonics are the only important components in determining the effective value of the exciting current. Theory of the crest ammeter is given, and its applicability (in conjunction with the flux voltmeter) to the determination of d-c. saturation curves by means of a-c. tests in magnetic investigations is indicated."
"The AIEE Electrophysics Committee reports as follows: 1. It has obtained permission from the AIEE Board to invite two members of the American Physical Society (APS) to sit with the committee. It is hoped that this arrangement will actually go into effect after 1 August. 2. It has obtained permission from the editor of Physical Review to publish in our JOURNAL abridgments of any papers appearing in Physical Review, with the usual credit. This will make it possible to note important articles immediately after their publication. 3. It has arranged with Professor K.T. Compton of Princeton University, NJ, USA to write a paper on the nature of the electric arc for presentation at this convention. It is hoped that another prominent physicist may be secured to address our next Winter Convention and that such addresses may become a regular practise in the future, at least at Winter Conventions. In addition, list is given of the papers and articles, which appeared in the JOURNAL during the period covered by this report that will give an idea of the range of topics in electrophysics covered. While not all of these papers were presented under the auspices of the Electrophysics Committee, they all lie within the scope of the committee's interests. "
"This year's activity has been focussed on the matter of measurement of high-frequency quantities arising principally in the field of carrier telephony and radio. The committee, arranged for the presentation of a series of 15 papers at the Pittsfield Regional Meeting of the First District (May 25-28, 1927). A list of these papers and a resume of the information in these papers are included as part of this report. The committee feels that these papers reflect the latest development in the methods of measurement of quantities associated with frequencies ranging from those just above power and ordinary telephone frequencies through those used in radio communication. The committee has also continued the extension of the bibliography of articles in other periodicals dealing with the application of electrical methods to the measurement of other than purely electrical quantities. This bibliography is submitted as part of this report. "
"The Holtwood Steam Plant is located in Lancaster County, Pa., on the Susquehanna River, about 24 miles above tide-water, adjacent to and closely coordinated with the 111,000-kw. hydro-electric plant of the Pennsylvania Water & Power Company, and through the latter company's customers, it is a part of a hydro-steam system including Baltimore, Md., and Lancaster, York, and Coates-ville, Pa., with a total installed generator capacity of about 370,000 kw. and with high-tension connections to two other large systems. It is a pulverized fuel burning station, containing at present two 10,000-kw. generators and three l400-hp. boilers. The plant is laid out for an ultimate capacity of at least 120,000 kw. The station went into operation in July 1925. The paper gives the reasons for building a steam plant at Holtwood, some of them being general advantages in such a location for a plant, which is supplementary to a run-of-river hydroelectric plant, and others being the particular advantage, in this instance. In general, during the low-flow period, the steam plant carries the base load or belt generation, and during high flow, when the hydroelectric plant is operated at maximum capacity whenever the load permits, the steam plant carries the peaks. This station was especially planned to suit such conditions of operation and was designed for mechanical sturdiness, reliability of service, quick starting, ability to float in at no load, and for maximum coordination with the hydroelectric plant rather than for maximum economy or minimum first cost."
"This paper describes the auxiliary power system of the Richmond Generating Station of the Philadelphia Electric Company, mentioning briefly some of the factors which influenced the design of the system and discusses the starting of large motors at full voltage from, an auxiliary turbine generator."
"This paper discusses transmission line operating experience on the 140,000-volt isolated neutral system of the Consumers Power Company, Michigan. Careful inspections and tests have been made to determine the conditions existing relative to insulator flashover and the findings and results are shown by tables and curves. Ground resistance or soil conditions appear to have a very decided effect on the number of flashovers on the various lines. The necessity of providing suitable arc protection to the line conductors is shown, as is also the soundness of certain theories and recommendations for increasing the reliability of transmission lines, based upon laboratory experiments."
"The relay problems of an electric power system are most important, and are very vital to the successful operation of the system. More and more consideration is being given to the relay engineers' point of view with resultant improvement in system operation. Several large, successful companies undertake no project having any bearing on the primary electric system without due regard to the relay engineer's recommendation. With the transmission networks becoming more and more interconnected, and with the injection into the problem the interconnections with other power companies, the absolute necessity of isolating a faulty line, (or a faulty piece of equipment), is essential and is becoming more clearly recognized by all large companies. Since this article was written, other 66-kv., ground relay tests have been made with a resistor grounded neutral and with a solidly grounded neutral, and some very interesting and unexpected points were discovered. It is hoped these points will be brought out during the discussion of this paper."
"This paper discusses the problem of obtaining selective relay protection in case of accidental grounds on high-tension isolated neutral systems. A relay was developed whose overcurrent element operates on the residual charging current which exists when a ground occurs on such a system, and whose directional element is operated by residual charging current and residual voltage. Two schemes can be employed: One using high-tension potential transformers for energizing the voltage coil of the directional element: the other, which is more complicated but cheaper, making use of low-tension potential transformers. Tests were undertaken on the 140-kv. system of the Consumers Power Co. to determine the effectiveness of this relay system under conditions of arcing and solid grounds. These tests were successful and it was therefore decided to make general use of such relay equipment for the high-voltage isolated neutral system. The relay scheme was put into operation during March, 1926, and the operating records available adequately substantiate the test results."
"DEFINITION OF ARC. An arc is a discharge of electricity, between electrodes in a gas or vapor, which has a voltage drop at the cathode of the order of the minimum ionizing or minimum exciting potential of the gas or vapor. ARC CHARACTERISTICS. The relation of arcs to glow discharges and coronas is illustrated by discussion of ``generalized'' curve of the gas discharge characteristic. Empirical equations for arc characteristics are interpreted, and a dependence on the boiling temperature of the anode is shown. Seeliger's experiments on the transition from glow to arc, accompanied by the development of a cathode spot, show that the mechanism of the current at the cathode is fundamentally different in the two types of discharge. CATHODE SPOT. An analysis based on heat conduction in the cathode shows that the cathode spot has no sharp thermal definition, but does have a sharp boundary if defined by visual brightness or by thermionic emission. The phenomenon of moving cathode spots presents the problem of accounting for the observed temperatures. THEORIES OF CATHODE FALL. Compton's theory is based on space charge considerations and the assumption that the thickness of the fall space is equal to the electronic mean free path. Langmuir's theory differs from Compton's in assuming this thickness to be considerably less than a free path. Considerations of energy balance at the cathode definitely support Langmuir's rather than Compton's theory. ENERGY BALANCE AT CATHODE."
"This paper discusses the application of printing telegraphs to ocean cable operation. Reference is made to various improvements in apparatus and operation, tending toward increased output, and the effect of the application of these improvements from the laying of the first cable to the present time. Telegraph codes and their relation to speed and their applicability to printer operation are also discussed. Transmission methods, shaping of the signals, variable lag, and the effect of earth currents are also described in the paper. Manual, semi-automatic, and full automatic operation of long ocean cables are covered briefly. The characteristics and advantages of regenerative repeaters are pointed out and the operation of printers on cables described."
"Rotary regenerative repeaters have made multiplex printing telegraphy possible over long distances. This paper gives a brief description of some types of rotary repeaters and then proceeds to describe in more detail a non-rotary regenerative repeater."
"A new and improved tool generally means new or improved accomplishments. Great improvements in sound recording and reproduction have been made possible by the thermionic amplifier. Electrical reproduction may be considered in three steps, (1) generation of a voltage by the vibrations of the needle, (2) amplification, (3) conversion of electrical power into sound. The first of these steps involves some interesting mechanical and electrical problems, and it is with these that the paper primarily deals, the problems of amplification and loud speaker design having been discussed in earlier publications to which references are given. Several types of phonograph ``pick up'' are possible; electrostatic, piezoelectric, electromagnetic, and variable resistance or microphonic. The electromagnetic principle is used in the device now manufactured. Since the moving armature cannot be actually at the needle tip, the little generator must function by transmitting the vibrations from the needle tip through a more or less flexible structure to the armature. Vibrations are inevitably transmitted, but when the requirements of freedom from appreciable distortion and maximum possible output are added, extreme care in design becomes necessary. An analysis is given of the mechanical behavior of the present model of reproducer."
"The chief problems presented in the accomplishment of television are discussed. These are, the resolution of the scene into a series of electrical signals of adequate intensity for transmission; the provision of a transmission channel capable of transmitting a wide band of frequencies without distortion; means for utilizing the transmitted signalls to re-create the image in a form suitable for viewing by one or more observers; arrangements for the accurate synchronization of the apparatus at the two ends of the transmission channel."
"The design of a television system, once the fundamental principles are understood, involves a detailed consideration of the methods by which the several important functions are to be performed. (1) In the present system the initial signal wave is obtained by sweeping a spot of light over the subject in parallel lines completely scanning it once every 18th of a second. The light reflected is collected by large photoelectric cells which control the transmitted current. At the receiving station the picture current controls the brightness of a neon lamp from which the received image is built up by means of a small aperture moving in synchronism with the spot of light at the transmitting station. For presentation to a large audience television images may be produced by a neon lamp in the form of a grid having a large number of separate electrodes. A high frequency excitation controlled by the picture current is distributed to the successive electrodes in synchronism with the spot of light at the transmitting station. (2) Space and time variations in the reflecting power of the subject are translated into time variations in signal strength. For design purposes these time variations are represented by component frequencies, a minimum band of which must be properly transmitted to insure an adequate reproduction of the image. Within this band there must be maintained a certain degree of uniformity in the efficiency of transmission of the separate components."
"Synchronization of Television is the problem of holding two scanning disks so that their phase displacement is always less than four and one third minutes of arc. A 240 pole synchronous motor of the variable reluctance type is used as a basis. Coupled to it a direct curent motor carries the steady component of the load. Hunting is eliminated by a condenser in series with the two synchronous motors whose capacitance is slightly less than that required to tune the circuit. As the motor might lock into step in any of 120 possible angular positions, only one of which would give the proper phase relations, a two-pole motor, with only one locking position, was provided by tapping the armature of the direct current motor at two points and bringing out the leads to slip rings. This was used for synchronizing while the 240 pole motor, connected subsequently, held the close synchronism required. The disks rotate at 1062.5 rev. per min. which gives 17.7 cycles on the two-pole and 2125 cycles on the 240-pole motor. For transmission the synchronizing current is attenuated to a level of 0.6 milliwatt and amplified at the receiving end. The 17.7-cycle current is an undesirably low frequency for transmission over telephone cables and so is used to modulate a 760-cycle current through a polarized relay."
"This paper deals with the transmission problems which were met and solved in connection with providing wire circuits from Washington to New York for thet elevision demonstrations which took place on April 7, 1927 and following. For transmission of the television images a single transmission channel was set up combining the frequency ranges usually assigned to telegraph, telephone, an dcertain carrier channels. The special line requirements were met so successfully that the television images transmitted from Washington were indistinguishable from those transmitted locally."
"Starting from the general requirements imposed on the transmitting medium, this paper discusses the engineering of a radio system for television purposes and describes the radio facilities actually employed for the recent Bell System demonstration. The tests to which the system was submitted to determine its suitability are outlined and the measured frequency-response characteristics are shown. An interesting phenomena due to multipath transmission, the production of positive and negative secondary images, is reported. A brief series of experiments concerned with the transmission of both voice and image ``on a single wavelength'' is also described."
"In this paper the author has outlined the evolution of multiple conductor joints and explained in detail the development of a three-conductor, high-voltage joint for use with belted and metal sheathed cables or combinations of these. In the final design, spreaders and barrier tubes have been replaced by specially reinforced crotches and hand-wrapped insulation. To date, all tests,-short time and accelerated life, a-c. and d-c.,- have produced failures in cable rather than in joints so constructed. Many other claims of superiority over existing types are presented."
"A theory of the propagation of electromagnetic waves guided by a system of parallel wires is developed with particular reference to the effect of the earth, and is simplified so that it is identical in form with the elementary theory. Important general properties of a system of parallel conductors and their application to problems of propagation in power or communication circuits, or in a system of both types of circuits, derived by Professor Pleijel from the elementary theory, are mentioned together with several remarks of practical importance. The simplified theory leads to the same conclusions and, consequently, to the same applications. The simplified theory gives promise of successful application to such problems of propagation in transmission systems which heretofore as a rule have not been formulated with sufficient precision."
"This paper summarizes the present legal standing and practical usage of the international electrical units, particularly as maintained in the United States. The international agreement reached in 1910 was provisional and requires some revision. Further investigations of the international standards, as well as of the absolute units, are urgently needed to put the system on a satisfactory basis for work of high precision. Legal authority to deal with electrical units has now been given the International Committee on Weights and Measures. This provides a permanent working organization through which international agreements can be reached and can be made effective throughout the world. When the committee takes up the question of electrical units for formal international adoption, it will have to decide whether to maintain as nearly as is practicable the values accepted at present or to revise them so as to accord with the fundamental c. g. s. system. With regard to primary standards, it will have to choose between the mercury ohm and silver voltameter, on the one hand, as against direct determination of the units by methods based on mechanical dimensions. The Bureau of Standards has under way several investigations planned to give a better technical basis for final decisions on-these questions. It is desirable also that they be discussed by those interested in making precise and accurate electrical measurements in order that all the advantages and disadvantages of the changes proposed may be given adequate consideration."
"Methods of employing the cathode ray oscillograph for investigation of corona loss are described. By deflecting the ray of cathode particles (electrons) in one direction within the tube by a voltage proportional to the applied voltage, and in a transverse direction by a voltage proportional to the current, a closed figure representative of the loss, is thrown upon the screen. Methods of obtaining photographic records of these figures and of calculating, therefrom, accurate values of the power expended are given. The instrument used is well adapted for this work. Powver measurements of 0.1 watt can be measured with an accuracy of 1 percent. From the volt-ampere cyclogramns the characteristics of the positive and negative loss on the a-c. wave are readily observed. The instantaneous voltage at which the loss starts and the instantanteous values of the conmbined corona and capacity currents can be accurately determined. Measurements of the corona starting point and loss on various conductors check the laws of corona established by Mr. Peek in 1910. The formulas of ``critical disruptive gradients'' and ``visual disruptive gradients'' were closely checked. The loss was found to follow a quadratic above the visual critical corona voltage, ev. For cables and roughened conductors the excess loss below ev due to surface irregularities approximately follows the probability law. For smooth, polished conductors the loss suddenly jumps front zero to a definite value at ev, and then follows the quadratic."
"The mechanisms of corona and corona loss have been studied with the cathode-ray oscillograph. High voltage power of the order of 0.1 watt can be measured with an accuracy of 1 per cent with this instrument. The measurements show that the loss follows the quadratic law above the visual critical voltage. On polished wires there is no loss until the visual critical voltage is reached. The loss then starts quite suddenly and takes a finite value on the quadratic curve. On cables and imperfect conductors there is a loss below the visual critical voltage on brushes at local ``rough'' spots. The loss due to these irregularities can be represented by the probability law. This is quite in accord with former work. In practise it is important not to mutilate the conductors in stringing. The really important factor in design is the irregularity factor, me, for weathered conductors. No line should be operated with a corona loss under fair weather conditions. It is not necessary from the economic stand point since large diameters can be obtained with special types of conductors. The visual critical corona voltage can be calculated with great accuracy. As the applied a-c. voltage is increased above the visual critical value, the instantaneous critical voltage becomes lower and lower until finally corona starts at the zero point of the wave. This occurs when the applied voltage is twice the visual critical voltage. At still higher voltage, corona starts below zero or on the falling wave."
"A description is given of an apparatus for the automatic determination of the dielectric strength of thin sheet insulation. The machine makes about 1000 breakdown tests in a day. Almost no attention is required, thus reducing the human element to a minimum. The results of over 100,000 punctures are given. An investigation of the effect of temperature indicates that none of these punctures occurred according to the thermal theories of breakdown. Tests to determine the effect of electrode area are also described. It is shown that statistical theory can be applied to the results with some success. The standard deviation of the breakdown values is a measure of the inherent variability of the material, and thus gives promise of value in the specification of insulation."
"A brief review is given of the literature on conduction through insulators. Every dielectric has a definite resistivity when the potential gradient is below a certain value, different for each substance. If the potential gradient is continually increased, a point is reached where an increase in voltage does not affect the current. This is called the saturation current. With still greater potential gradients, a point is reached where the current increases rapidly and breakdown soon results. All these phenomena of conduction are explainable as the movement of ions in an electric field. The resistivity of a dielectric depends on the number of ions in unit volume, on the charge on each ion, and on their mobility (velocity under unit potential gradient). The saturation current depends on the charge on each ion and on their rate of production. Breakdown is preceded by ionization by collision, which is determined by the ionization potential of the substance and the length of path of an ion. The number of ions normally present in a dielectric depends not only upon the rate of producing them but also upon their rate of recombination. The rate of recombination is a constant of the material, but the rate of production may depend either upon outside agencies or inside forces. In gases, ions are generally produced by outside agencies, the important ones being rays from radioactive materials, X-rays and ultra X-rays."
"This paper was prepared by a subcommittee of the Committee on Electrical Insulation of the Division of Engineering and Industrial Research of the National Research Council. The general purpose of the committee is to foster research on dielectrics and its initial activities have been confined to the preparation of a series of summaries of the published literature on this subject. The subcommittee which presents this paper is the second one to report, having been preceded by a paper on dielectric absorption and theories of dielectric behavior, by Chairman J. B. Whitehead, which was published by the A. I. E. E. in 1926. The second paper under the auspices of the committee was inspired by the first one, and was an original exposition of Clerk Maxwell's theory of the double layer dielectric, by Professor Murnaghan, published by the A. I. E. E. in 1927. The present paper, like the first, is a summary of existing literature which, it is hoped, will afford a starting point for original research in many directions. It is hoped that the discussion by the Institute will bring out obscure phenomena and new interpretations of the data reviewed. The report starts with a consideration of the general subject of instability in electrical circuits, and an explanation of instability in the case of dielectrics, in terms of a stress and strain characteristic. This is followed by a discussion of distribution of stress and strain in non-uniform fields, and their relation to breakdown."
"Peter Cooper Hewitt invented the mercury arc rectifier in 1902, so that it can hardly be considered a new development. More than a half dozen different manufacturers are producing mercury arc rectifiers of various types and sizes and have been producing such rectifiers for years, so that commercial development is not new, yet technical literature is astonishingly bare of treatments going to the fundamentals of rectifier behavior. Many articles appear, describing this and that installation. Descriptions of structural details are not wanting. For specific glass rectifiers, performance curves are available which give the relation between current and voltage at which failures occur under standard conditions. Even this information does not seem to be published for the iron tank rectifiers. An engineer wishing to familiarize himself with the quantitative relations underlying rectifier design has thus practically nothing to go on. We cannot assume from this that manufacturers the world over have proceeded blindly for nearly a quarter of a century, but if they do know what happens in a mercury arc rectifier they at least have not told the public. The purpose of this paper is to present such information as is at present available to the author. This information does not include the knowledge of very important groups in the industry and would even seem to indicate that a very large aggregate capacity of rectifiers has been designed along incorrect lines."
"This paper discusses, from a non-mathematical standpoint, certain factors which should enter into the design of an overhead contact system on an electrified railroad. It emphasizes desirable features, mechanical and structural, and indicates practical limits which conditions will permit in the attainment of these features. Tests made by the Pennsylvania Railroad with slow-motion photography are outlined. These tests were made to determine operating conditions of the catenary construction with two different types of supporting attachments, over both curved and tangent track. Deflections and oscillations were studied in order to bring out the most productive sources for future study and improvement of the design in respect both to elimination of wear and to maintenance of uniformly good current collecting qualities."
"This paper is intended to outline methods which have been found useful in the design of overhead contact systems where catenary construction is employed, with especial reference to the single catenary construction installed in 1925 on the Danbury Branch of the New York, New Haven, and Hartford Railroad as an extension of its 11,000-volt, single-phase, a-c. electrified zone; and on the New York, Westchester, and Boston Railway on its extension from Larchmont to Harrison, N. Y. Part I deals with construction over straight or ``tangent'' track, and is a review of methods and formulas which, while not new, are necessary as an introduction to Part II, which not only includes tangent-chord construction, but deals at length with the design of the so-called inclined catenary and its adaptation to curved track."
"The object of this paper is to give briefly the procedure followed by the Illinois Central engineers in the layout, design, and erection of the catenary system. Brief reference also is made to the principal items of material entering into the construction and to methods of maintenance."
"Up to a few years ago, the generally accepted limitations for the amount of current which could be collected from an overhead distribution system were from 300 to 800 amperes in heavy interurban service and between 800 and 1000 amperes, with a maximum of 1500 in the case of the Chicago, Milwaukee, & St. Paul. It is not possible to determine the limits of current collection by theoretical calculations nor by the experience on any particular installation. The tests described and analyzed in this paper were demonstrated on a four-mile track using special overhead construction of the twin trolley type with observation towers at several points to enable observers to carefully inspect commutation between the collector and the trolley wire. Tests were also made to determine the temperature rise which would be obtained as a result of delivering, for a period of five minutes, a current of 5200 amperes to a standing locomotive. Further tests were made to determine what damage would result, if any, should a pantograph leave the wire while delivering currents as high as 4000 or 5000 amperes. Test data are included and description of the several types of overhead construction used."
"A description is given of a new method of overhead contact design, the ``ideal inclined catenary.'' This is based on an originally discovered tension and weight relation formula. A proof of the formula is given and other characteristics of the design are mathematically analyzed. A number of railroads now using inclined catenary is listed and data on the weights and tensions of their overhead constructions are given for comparison purposes with the ``ideal.'' The necessity of making a definite selection of a proper contact wire tension in any inclined catenary design is indicated and that this, together with the use of the design formula, leads to standardization of overhead systems is pointed out."
"Early in the history of the development of the alternating current (AC) generator it was recognized that there might be losses present under load conditions in addition to the no-load losses and the armature copper loss due to load current. Because no one had a satisfactory means of measuring this loss it was not included in the early definitions of conventional efficiency. In 1913 papers were presented giving the results of carefully made input - output tests which tended to show that the entire loss on sustained polyphase short circuit should be taken as a measure of the stray load loss for the salient pole alternator. This rule has remained in force and in view of its general acceptance it is to the interest of designers of salient pole alternators to be able to predetermine this loss. It is the purpose of thispaper to present some general methods of attacking the problem. It is not intended that the results should be complete but they are presented simply as a starting point for the attack on this problem. Instead of trying to develop a single formula for the short circuit core loss, it is desirable to separate the total loss into distinct parts and develop. formulas for each of these parts separately. The parts into which it is most conveniently divided are: 1. An eddy current loss in the armature copper. 2. A loss in the stator iron. 3. A pole face loss. 4. An end loss. 5. A loss in the amortisseur winding. These component parts will be discussed in turn."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The subject of procedure and policy in the formulation of industrial electrical standards was brought to the attention of the Winter Convention in a forceful address of President Chesney, which is printed elsewhere in this issue of the JOURNAL. Briefly stated, the question at issue is whether the Institute should continue as in the past 28 years to be the final authority on electrical standards in this country, or should renounce part of its responsibilities in this connection and permit the final authority for a large part of the work of standardization to fall into the hands of various groups of manufactures and trade organizations. President Chesney stated in discussing the subject that the time has come for the A. I. E. E. either to take decidedly more responsibility and put more vigor back of its system of procedure in establishing electrical standards, or it must step aside and give some other body an opportunity to continue the work in a vigorous way. The Institute cannot stand in the same position it is today for any great length of time, he believes, without doing injury to the electrical industry."
"A new rectifier utilizing a partially oxidized disk of copper as a rectifier unit is described. The disks may be arranged into groups suitable for all fields of rectifier applications. The rectification appears to take place at the junction between the copper and the oxide without observable physical or chemical changes, and is similar in character to rectification by the hot-cathode type of rectifiers. The physical characteristics of assembled rectifiers and a method of designing the same for special purposes are outlined and some of the design problems discussed. It is pointed out that the new rectification phenomenon is of a radically different nature from those observed in structurally somewhat similar contact rectifiers. The usual theories of contact rectification, which are based on electrolysis or thermoelectricity, are not applicable to the present case. The new phenomenon is discussed in the light of more recent theories based on electron affinities of copper and copper-oxide, which are in better accord with the observations. Some applications are given for which the rectifier seems to be especially suited."
"About fifty American engineering colleges are carrying on organized engineering research. Fifteen of these received during the year 1924–25 more than $500,000 for research through cooperative relations with industry. The total annual expenditure by engineering colleges for research is more than $1,000,000. The cooperative relations between Purdue University and the American Railway Association have resulted in extensive studies for which the association has appropriated more than $500,000 during the last two years."
"Voltage standardization has long been recognized as desirable, and to date no definite standards have been accepted and applied. An attempt is now being made to coordinate the recommendations of the different power companies and manufacturers with a view towards adopting definite voltage standards for all apparatus. A proposal has recently been submitted by the manufacturers which is not applicable in its entirety to conditions in the Southeast, and this paper contains a counter-proposal submitted as being more readily acceptable to the interconnected power systems of the Southeast."
"Various factors contribute to impair the quality of telegraph signals. For instance, there may be interfering currents either induced in the circuit or brought in by conduction, the proportioning of the circuit elements may be imperfect or batteries and relays may be out of adjustment. The result in any case is to distort the telegraph signals so that the received signals are not a true copy of those transmitted. The paper describes methods for measuring this distortion and for analyzing the results so as to indicate the nature and extent of the impairment and its probable cause."
"In an important paper read before the June 1918 Convention of the A. I. E. E., it was shown by Mr. C. L. Fortescue, that any dissymmetrical system of three-phase voltages or currents could be resolved, by vector methods, into a pair of symmetrical systems, one forward and the other backward. The numerical ratio of the latter to the former is called the unbalance factor of the system. Although several vector methods were developed in the paper and its discussion, for evaluating the forward and backward components when the dissymmetrical triangle is given, so far as is known to the writer, no scalar and purely numerical method of developing them has been published. As it is useful sometimes to compute the two components without recourse to vector methods or to the drawing board, a numerical method is here offered."
"This paper undertakes to analyze the voltage practises and requirements of alternating current power systems with the aim of arriving at voltage standards that adequately correct and extend present standards. Utilization, or receiving terminals, is taken as the point of reference and for designation of system, circuit and equipment voltages. For this analysis and development of voltage standards a comprehensive chart, showing operating voltage limits of representative systems, is given in Plate 1. A tabulation summarizing the proposed standard voltage ratings is given in Table XI."
"Much interest has been manifested during recent years in the use of the corona discharge during the cracking of petroleum to increase the production of gasoline, and the results of studies on this subject are given in Bureau of Mines Technical Paper, 375, by J. J. Jakosky."
"This paper describes what is believed to be a new form of high-voltage joint. The main novelties in the joint are that the metallic union of the conductors is insulated by wrapping on a single sheet of wide, impregnated paper by machine. The ends of the cable insulation are cut into a series of steps, or a taper, and knives on the machine cut the wide sheet of paper exactly to fit the steps or taper as the wide paper is being applied, until a smooth cylinder is built up to the original diameter of cable insulation. At this moment, the knives are removed, and at each end of the wide piece of paper, strips of tinfoil which have previously been cemented to the paper appear, and these strips gradually taper inward so that as the wide paper is applied, a flaring cone of metal is formed in the body of the insulation itself. This metallic cone acts as an electrostatic screen to control the longitudinal and radial stresses. It is formed automatically without any attention on the part of the splicer in the field, and it insures that all the insulation under stress is solid laminate paper insulation of the highest quality and breakdown strength, especially in the regions where the diameter is enlarged from that of the cable sheath to that of the joint sleeve. Test results are given."
"A review of the points of view which in general influence standardization of voltages and a number of proposals of certain standards are given in this paper. The discussion pertains to classes of voltages, three-phase systems, d-c. systems, and nominal voltages. A plea is made for the use of the ratio of 1/√3 for working voltages."
"Records of the transients actually occurring on transmission lines of widely varying characteristics have been obtained recently with the klydonograph. 1. These records substantiate many of the theories of transients on lines. 2. They indicate the incorrectness or incompleteness of some of hese theories. 3. They suggested modifications or extensions of these latter theories. This paper is a coordination of those theories which agree with test data obtained up to the present time. Since the results of the klydonograph surge investigations are presented in a companion paper, only the data required to make this paper complete in itself are included."
"Fires are expensive and seriously affect electric service. Unfortunately, so long as oil and combustibles are used for insulation and so long as electrical energy behaves as it does there will always be fire hazards to trouble the industry. Progress in eliminating these hazards has, however, been made in the last few years. The principle of isolation has been used to good advantage in many parts of typical systems. In recent hydroelectric stations, all apparatus containing oil has been placed outside the station structure. In metropolitan substations oil-filled equipment has been placed in fireproof compartments. Care in installation, precaution in handling oil and better inspection and maintenance of the oil have reduced the danger."
"1. The physical nature of ionization in a corona discharge in air is studied; by means of the corona spectrum, the saturation current in air around the corona voltage, and the influence of the material of the wire on the saturation current. The results indicate that nitrogen only is ionized in a corona discharge in air; that the ionization of the nitrogen results in the separation of an electron from the nitrogen molecule; and that the electron quickly attaches to a molecule or group of molecules, probably water or oxygen, to form an ion. 2. The free charge in the neighborhood of the wire called the space charge, is found to be alternating in character and to have a definite boundary. The space charge formed on any half-wave returns to the wire on the next succeeding half-wave. 3. The mobility of the ions is calculated from the boundary of the space charge. A limiting value of about 10 cm./sec. per volt/cm. is indicated for the positive ions. The negative ions show no sign of a limiting value and the mobility varies from about 1.6 to 10 cm./sec. per volt/cm. as the maximum impressed voltage rises from the corona voltage to twice the corona voltage. 4. Ionization is found to occur at lower voltages on the positive half-waves than on the negative half-waves and the ionization on the positive half-waves becomes much more copious with the beginning of ionization on the negative half-waves. 5. A formula for the corona current based on theoretical considerations is developed by the aid of certain empirical assumptions. This formula gives excellent agreement with the observed currents measured in large cylinders. A calculation of the corona current for a 100-mile three-phase transmission line gives a satisfactory agreement with the values of current as measured by W. W. Lewis."
"During two years' service in a five-mile stretch of the New York State Barge Canal at Utica, electric buoy lamps have shown that they cost $15 a year as compared with $65 for oil lamps which need inspection and attention daily. Fewer electrics are needed because they are brighter."
"H. E. Mendenhall: I should like to ask Mr. Carroll one question. Two years ago, Professor Sorenson discussed Doctor Ryan's paper and he had a theory that this corona loss might be caused by the positive ions not traveling as far as the negative ions. I should like to ask if they were able to determine whether or not the space charge is out further when it is negative than it is when positive?"
"F. L. Stone: Mr. Harrington is to be congratulated on the excellent way in which he has presented to the electrical engineers the very serious problem of mine electrification. It is very evident from Mr. Harrington's description of the conditions that electrification of mines must go on and mining machinery must be electrically driven; otherwise mining costs would be prohibitive."
"J. E. Heller: It might be of interest to point out some applications in the West of the developments described by Mr. Jacobs. The longest circuits in the West include those from San Francisco to Seattle, Denver and Salt Lake City. The Seattle circuits are about 950 mi. in length and are made up of carrier channels to Portland, open wire from Portland to Tacoma and cable from Tacoma to Seattle. A large portion of the toll-circuit relief during 1927 in the Pacific System will be cared for by means of about 10 telephone carrier systems. In the next few weeks an additional circuit consisting of 104 wires will be established between Salt Lake City and San Francisco. This circuit, from a service standpoint, will be practically equivalent to the 165 circuits between San Francisco and Chicago."
"A. H. Kehoe: There are a number of systems using the multiple type of street lamp, but the advantages of controlling them by relay has not been generally realized. The subject was intensively studied by the companies supplying Manhattan Island in 1918. Early in 1920 the United Electric Light and Power Company had completely equipped all of its street lamps for relay control of a type as indicated in the paper. This system uses an a-c. relay at every lamp except in the case of park lighting, where an installation's only purpose is for street lighting. With this system, the reliability in operation is very good as a relay failure affects but one lamp."
"A new spirit of decorative art is today permeating France. As in other fields, it found striking expression in the design and use of lighting fixtures at the International Exposition of Decorative Arts held last year in Paris. The ornamentation and the lighting of a room are inseparable. Recognizing this, artists and decorators often use light as the determining element in their decorative schemes and have produced wonderful and beautiful results. There are many householders, however, who cannot employ talented artists for this purpose but who, nevertheless, value such pleasing and effective lighting. To put it within their reach, the Societe pour le Perfectionnement de Teclairage and the Compagnie des Lampes are promoting a contest to develop lighting fixtures of a type suited to the average French home. Prizes amounting to 50,000 francs will be awarded."
"One of the most elaborate campaigns ever put into operation for the development of the electrical industry has been launched in Great Britain under the auspices of the Electrical Development Association and the Electric Lamp Manufacturers Association. This activity is intended to promote the wiring of the homes of Great Britain and to spread the gospel of better home lighting. The campaign is receiving the enthusiastic and active support of all sections of the British electrical industry. The Technical Press is giving the movement its very hearty support and it would appear that the results could not be other than highly successful."
"“Lighting” was chosen this year as the subject of the annual exhibit of the Academy at Rotterdam, Holland. With the assistance of several organizations, including the Dutch Illuminating Engineering Society, a demonstration of lighting effects and of good and bad lighting as it applied to a number of the more usual services was arranged. The exhibit also included displays relating to lamp manufacture, historical lamps, fixtures and portable lamps. Particular emphasis was placed on the proper use of light in the home, and in this connection the “camouflage” aspect of lighting was prominently featured."
"The Syndicate of French Manufacturers of Incandescent Lamps announces that their metallic-filament vacuum incandescent lamps will hereafter be designated, as the gas-filled lamps have been for a long time, by their consumption in watts and not by their intensity in candle power."
"The 1927 Winter Convention of the Institute maintained its tradition of being the “Working Convention” of the year, as 35 technical papers were presented and discussed during the meeting, in addition to an address by President Chesney on “Standardization” which formed one of the important subjects for consideration. While the number in attendance is not always a criterion of the success of a convention, the attendance of over 1900 people is an indication of the wide interest in Institute affairs which the Winter Convention inspires. The variety of subjects presented, the high character of the papers, the large attendance at the various sessions, and the volume of discussion incurred all mark this convention as one of the most notable and important ones ever held by the Institute."
"A program of unusual interest to members of the Southwestern District will be presented at the Regional Meeting to be held in Kansas City, Missouri, March 17 and 18, under the direction of District No. 7 of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. The Kansas City Athletic Club at Eleventh and Baltimore Avenue will be Headquarters for the meeting."
"The program for the regional meeting to be held at Bethlehem, Pa., April 21–23, under the direction of Geographical District No. 2 of the Institute is now in practically final form. Quite a variety of technical papers on pertinent topics will be presented and other features, such as a banquet and inspection trips, will add to the attractions of the meeting."
"The fourth regional meeting of the Northeastern District of the Institute will be held at Pittsfield, Mass., May 25–27. A general arrangement of the program has already been decided upon and sessions have been proposed on the subjects of accuracy in high-frequency measurements, mechanical forces in electrical circuits and tap-changing transformers. Other subjects also will be included and special consideration will be given to authors who present their, initial papers at this time. It is planned also to have a student convention in connection with this meeting and a session will be devoted to student papers."
"Starting of Large A-C. Motors, by P. C. Jones, The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. March 18."
"The Summer Convention of the Institute will be held this year in Detroit, Mich., on June 20 to 24. A technical program of widely varied topics is being planned and the local convention committee in Detroit has promised recreation and entertainment."
"On the evening of Wednesday, March 23,1927, the members of the New York Electrical Society and the New York Section of the A. I. E. E. will have the great privilege of listening to an address by Dr. M. I. Pupin of Columbia University on the romance and necessity of scientific research. Dr. Pupin, who is a pastpresident of the New York Electrical Society, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, will speak under the auspices of the National Research Council. He will recount, in his own inimitable way, some of the adventure stories of research. As the Doctor states, “research is no dry-as-dust subject but one of the most interesting adventures any man could undertake.” The meeting will be held in the Engineering Auditorium, 29 West 39th St., New York, at 8.15 p. m., Wednesday, March 23, 1927. It is good to hear an enthusiast and Dr. Pupin is one of the world's best."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Thursday, February 10,1927."
"By action of the Board of Directors of the Institute at their meeting of February 10, 1927 the Standards for Induction Motors and Induction Machines in General, No. 9, were revised. The revision adopted covers the sections of the Standard dealing with rating and is the result of the continued efforts of the A. E. S. C. Sectional Committee on Rating of Electrical Machinery to obtain a decision satisfactory to all. Such unanimous approval has finally been obtained by the Rating Committee under Dr. D. C. Jackson's chairmanship and the decision reached will now be applied to the revision of rating sections of Pamphlets 5 and 7 on “Direct-Current Generators and Motors” and “Alternating-Current Generators, etc.,” respectively."
"A joint meeting of the New York Sections of the A. I. E. E., the A. S. M. E., the A. S. C. E. and the A. I. M. E. will be held in the Engineering Auditorium, 29 West 39th Street, at 8 p. m. sharp, on the evening of March 16, to listen to a talk by Ole Singstad, Chief Engineer, New York State Bridge and Tunnel Commission, who will have as his subject, The Planning and Construction of the Holland Tunnel."
"Several hearings have recently been held before the Senate Committee on Commerce on the bills proposing to make the use of the metric system compulsory in this country, and to establish a commission to gradually bring this system into effect. It was proposed to complete these hearings during the month of June, but because of pressure of other work before the committee, it now appears doubtful whether the hearings will be completed at all during the present session of Congress. It will be recalled that hearings were held before the House Committee on Weights and Measures, during the last session of the present Congress, but that the Committee failed to report the measures on which they had taken testimony."
"A new compilation of weights and measures, laws of the states, territories, insular possessions, and of the Federal Government of the United States, is being made by the Bureau of Standards."
"The governing bodies of Columbia University have placed at the disposal of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers each year a scholarship in Electrical Engineering in the Schools of Mines, Engineering and Chemistry of Columbia University. The scholarship pays $350 toward the annual tuition fees which vary from $340 to $360, according to the details of the course selected. Reappointment of the student to the scholarship for the completion of his course is conditioned upon the maintenance of a good standing in his work."
"Professor Elihu Thomson, director of the Thomson research laboratory of the General Electric Company at Lynn, Mass., and past-president of the Institute, has been notified that he has received the Faraday medal of the Council of the Institution of Electrical Engineers of England for 1927. The award is made for “notable scientific or industrial achievements in electrical engineering, or for conspicuous services rendered to the advancement of electrical science.”"
"It has been found necessary to slightly advance the date of the opening meeting of the International Electrotechnical Commission to be held in Italy; it will take place at Bellagio, Monday, September 5, 1927."
"President Nicholas Murray Butler of Columbia University, it is announced, has appointed a committee of alumni of the Engineering Schools to study from the practising engineer's point of view some of the present problems relative to engineering training and research as regards professional duty and opportunity in this connection. The committee, which will report to President Butler, is headed by Milton L. Cornell of the class of 1905. The other members are Daniel E. Moran, C. E., 1884, consulting engineer; Arthur S. Dwight, M. E., 1885, consulting engineer, Gano Dunn, E. E., 1891, president of the J. C. White Engineering Corporation; Francis Blossom, C. E., 1891, partner of Sanderson and Porter; Harris K. Masters, M. E., 1894, formerly president of the Engineering Alumni Association; Henry C. Carpenter, E. E., 1899, general manager, New York Telephone Company; Richard E. Dougherty, C. E., 1901, engineering assistant to the president of the New York Central Lines; Darwin S. Hudson, C. E., 1901, construction engineer, Consolidated Gas Company; David M. Myers, M. E., 1901, consulting mechanical engineer; Elihu C. Church, C. E., 1904, consulting engineer; Milton L. Cornell, C. E., 1905, president of the Cornell Iron Works, Inc.; John J. Ryan, E. E., 1909, engineer, New York Edison Company; Roy U. Wood, Met. E., 1914, assistant treasurer, Research Corporation; Frederick W. Jewett, Chem. E., 1918, consulting engineer; Stephen P. Burke, Chem. E., 1920, director of Research Laboratory."
"Edward Dean Adams, in making his generous contribution of $100,000 to the Engineering Foundation and Engineering Societies Library fund, detailed notice of which appeared in the May 1926 issue of the JOURNAL, utilized the following “Deed of Gift,” which has been made the accepted form for other future similar bequests."
"At the annual meeting held in the Engineering Institute Building, February 17, 1927, Lewis Buckley Stillwell, pastpresident of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the American Institute of Consulting Engineers, was reelected chairman of the Engineering Foundation for the third time."
"The College of Engineering of the Ohio State University at Columbus, Ohio, announces a research fellowship. The value of this is $750.00 per year, and it is open during the coming college year, to graduates in mechanical, civil, and electrical engineering. The holder of this fellowship devotes his entire time to graduate work and may obtain the Masters Degree at the end of one year."
"The following statement has been made by the Treasurer of the United Engineering Society for the year of 1926:"
"At the twenty-third annual meeting of the United Engineering Society, held in the Engineering Societies Building January 27, 1927 the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Bancroft Gherardi, Fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, president; Roy V. Wright, of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, first vice-president; Francis Lee Stuart, member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, second vice-president; Alfred D. Flinn, member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, secretary; J. S. Langthorn, member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, treasurer and Henry A. Lardner, Fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, asistant treasurer. The gift of Edward Dean Adams was acknowledged and suitable resolution formulated and passed. Trustees appointed to fill the vacancies created by the expiration of terms were: From the American Society of Civil Engineers, George Gibbs to succeed Lewis D. Rights; from the American Institute of Mining Engineers, Arthur S. Dwight to succeed Walter H. Aldridge; from the American Society cf Mechanical Engineers, Roy V. Wright (reelected) and from the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Calvert Townley to succeed H. H. Barnes, Jr."
"At the annual dinner and business meeting of the Society of Automotive Engineers held in New York last month, John H. Hunt, of Detroit, head of the electrical division of the General Motors research laboratories and member of the Institute, was elected president of the society for 1927. W. G. Wall of Indianapolis, consulting engineer, was elected first vice-president, and C. B. W'hittelsey of Hartford, Conn., president of the Hartford Rubber Works Co., was elected treasurer to succeed himself."
"As the result of a series of tests on ten automotive ignition systems, several modifications of the systems now in use in the automotive industry are suggested for the benefit of manufacturers of spark generators. The report is issued by the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, through the Department of Commerce. The tests were run at the Bureau of Standards. Both high-tension magnetos and battery coil systems were studied. The full range of automotive practise was included, both from the standpoint of mechanical condition and endurance of the systems."
"E. W. ALLEN, Fellow of the A. I. E. E., has been promoted from the position of manager of the engineering department of the General Electric Company, Schenectady, to that of vice-president in charge of engineering."
"Russell Robb, senior vice-president and treasurer of Stone & Webster, Inc., and, since 1895, a Member of the Institute, died February 15 at Phillips House, Boston, after a brief illness of one week. Born at Dubuque, If., he was graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1888. For three years he was in the engineering service of the Thomson Electric Welding Company at Lynn, Mass., but left it in 1891 to join the engineering organization of Stone & Webster at Boston. He had been a classmate of both C. A. Stone and Edwin S. Webster in the Electrical Engineering course at M. I. T. In 1905 he was made a member of the firm and in 1920 became senior vice-president and treasurer of the company. He was an officer and director of many public utilities in the traction, light and power field and as early in his career as 1896, brought out the book “Electric Wiring.” During the period 1909–11, he was lecturer at Harvard University on public utility topics and his Lectures on Organization were privately printed in 1909. Mr. Robb, in his pioneer association with the firm of Stone & Webster, was known throughout the public utility industry as a wise leader, kindly and modest in disposition and much beloved by all those with whom he came in contact. He was prominent also in the civic life of his home town, Concord, Mass., serving as trustee of its public library and a member of many technical and social clubs. He was also a director of many business interests from Cape Breton to El Paso and from the Puget Sound to Key West."
"Research and Invention, by S. M. Kintner, Westinghouse Elec. & Mfg. Co., January 20. Attendance 150."
"The annual Electrical Show at Michigan State College, put on by the students in the Electrical Engineering Department, was held Feb. 1–3 inclusive, during Farmers' Week at the college."
"At a meeting of the Vancouver Section held on February 1, 1927, the following papers were presented by seniors in electrical and mechanical engineering at the University of British Columbia:"
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A system of National and Regional Prizes for Institute papers was inaugurated by the Board of Directors in 1926 and has been administered by a special Committee on Award of Institute Prizes. After two years' experience, this committee found the system of award to be extremely difficult, owing to the fact that comparison between papers dealing with entirely different branches of the art cannot logically be made. It was also found necessary to establish some basis for rating and judging the papers in order to make the awards in a satisfactory manner. After a careful study of the whole situation, this committee submitted a new plan to serve as a basis of awards for Institute papers, and the Board of Directors, at a meeting held in Detroit on June 23rd, adopted the committee's report as given below. The following plan is therefore now in effect as applying to prizes for papers presented in 1927."
"The rapid development of radio has given rise to a parallel development in the art of remote control. Remote and supervisory control is being applied to an ever increasing variety of problems. This control is now commonly effected by the use of special wires connecting the apparatus under control with the point from which control is exercised."
"This paper summarizes the present legal standing and practical usage of the international electrical units, particularly us maintained in the United States. The international agreement reached in 1910 was provisional and requires some revision. Further investigations of the international standards, as well as of the absolute units, are urgently needed to put the system on a satisfactory basis for work of high precision. Legal authority to deal with electrical units has now been given the International Committee on Weights and Measures. This provides a permanent working organization through which international agreements can be reached and can be made effective throughout the world. When the committee takes up the question of electrical units for formal international adoption, it will have to decide whether to maintain as nearly as is practicable the values accepted at present or to revise them so as to accord with the fundamental c. g. s. system, With regard to primary standards, it will have to choose between the mercury ohm and silver voltameter, on the one hand, as against direct determination of the units by methods based on mechanical dimensions. The Bureau of Standards has under way several investigations planned to give a better technical basis for final decisions on these questions. It is desirable also that they be discussed by those interested in making precise and accurate electrical measurements in order that all the advantages and disadvantages of the changes proposed may be given adequate consideration."
"To the Board of Directors: During the past year the application of electrical means to the various branches of transportation continued at an accelerated pace. The major division of the transportation industry, namely, steam railroads, added to its electrified lines and, although the mileage electrified is still a small percentage of the total, it is steadily increasing and is rapidly becoming an important factor in railroad operation. Into the field of city and suburban railways, improvements are constantly being introduced. On the water, electric drives are being adopted more and more, with either steam turbines or oil engines as prime movers. Bus transportation is adopting, extensively, gas-electric propulsion. The oil-electric locomotive and the gas-electric motor rail car are being introduced in certain phases of railroad operation."
"Among the multitude of questions asked of Mr. Edison on the occasion of his eightieth birthday, the following, with its answer, indicates that the search for the sources of “cold light” has a practical bearing on the developments of the future."
"To the Board of Directors: This committee in its report last year gave a rather complete survey of the present state of the art in the field of protective devices for power systems. As many of the principal features of that report still describe the present practise in these various lines, the committee will report at this time more especially its activities during the past year."
"The fact that the provision of the Constitution of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers which assigns the address of the President to the close rather than to the beginning of his term, seems to me to indicate a desire on the part of the Institute to have this address include in some measure, the ideas of the retiring President, acquired during his term on matters of general concern to the Institute, and to review those problems of procedure, organization and policy, which may assist the Institute to grow and develop in a way, which is healthy and for the best interests of its members, for the engineering profession as a whole, for the good of the electrical industry and the communities which we represent. It seems fitting therefore at this time to bring to your attention several outstanding features of the year just past."
"To the Board of Directors: The Committee on Electrochemistry and Electrometallurgy makes its annual report as follows: About two years ago, this committee brought to the attention of the Standards Committee the desirability of revising the Institute Standards for storage batteries. A special working committee was then appointed to undertake this task and a tentative standard has been formulated defining the terms and conditions which characterize the rating and behavior of storage batteries. This report is now in the hands of the Standards Committee. It is believed that the work accomplished at the suggestion of this committee will be of value to the storage battery industry, which is an important unit in the electrochemical field."
"This paper deals with the theory underlying the starting performance of the salient pole synchronous motor equipped with damper windings. The theory, while involving some approximations, is accurate enough for practical engineering calculations. Formulas are developed for the starting torque, pull-in torque and inrush. A method is also given for calculating the speed torque curve from standstill to synchronous speed. Due to the fact that the damper winding is not continuous around the periphery and due to the presence of the single-phase field winding, the rotor circuit is not a perfect polyphase secondary but is unbalanced to some extent. In order to take care of this unbalance, it is necessary, in addition to the usual system of positively rotating vectors, to employ a second system of negatively rotating vectors as is done in unbalanced three-phase problems. The stator resistance has been disregarded in working out the general case of the unbalanced or partial polyphase secondary in order to obtain a torque formula which will be simple and at the same time accurate enough for practical calculations. Mr. Q. Graham is working on this problem and expects to present in an Institute paper, in the near future, the general solution including the stator resistance. The use of the double squirrel-cage type of damper winding in salient pole machines has been examined both theoretically and experimentally. Other methods of obtaining unusual starting performance are suggested and the results of some actual calculations presented."
"The present practise in the design of distribution substations shows a tendency towards the more extensive use of automatically controlled equipment to replace the older manually-operated type. This paper is of interest therefore as an example of the type of equipment used by one company, and also for some of the reasons why this type was decided upon. The paper includes a summary of the apparatus and control equipment, general scheme of operation, together with floor plans of the building, one-line diagrams illustrating the operation, and a view of a portion of the single-phase regulator equipment. It also includes a summary showing the total kv-a. capacity of apparatus that is automatically controlled."
"A new form of cement has been developed by a British firm and is reported upon by the Department of Commerce. This plastic material resists acid and is therefore valuable for use in constructing chimneys, sewer pipes, culverts, storage tanks, etc."
"As in other industries, electricity has taken the lead in the petroleum industry in putting the drilling of oil wells on an engineering basis and as a result of numerous installations it can be said that oil companies in general at the present time have a very receptive attitude toward electric drilling. Satisfied drillers, easy operation, low maintenance, low power bills, fewer shut downs, perfect motion, faster drilling, heavier pulling, no stand-by losses — all these factors have contributed to make electricity the coming accepted standard by which all other forms of oil-well drilling will be judged."
"It is well known that synchronous machines, when operated under certain conditions, do not behave as theory would lead us to believe. These differences from predicted results are not of serious consequences under normal operating conditions, but are widely in error when operation on charging a long unloaded transmission line, synchronizing power, and pull-out torque, are computed from the design constants. These things lead us to believe that certain changes in the theories of synchronous machines would be advantageous, and it is with this fact in mind that we make this study of transverse armature reaction."
"In this paper a method of calculating the mechanical forces in transformers, based on mutual reactance between coils, is presented. A formula for the mutual inductance between coaxial solenoids is developed and from this expression the formula for the mechanical force between concentric cylindrical transformer coils is derived. The same method is followed to obtain the formula giving the mechanical force between individual coaxial coils. The method is checked by calculations of reactance of complicated arrangements of coils. Tables are given to facilitate calculations."
"According to one of the directors of the Imperial Chemical Industry, Ltd., the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen, through the intermediate stage of ammonia, seems to have established itself as definitely superior to other methods of fixation. This statement was transmitted through our trade commissioner at London."
"Steel-enclosed mercury arc rectifiers, due to their advantages over rotary converters in efficiency, ease and reliability of operation, and ability to produce high d-c. voltages, are gradually replacing other forms of converters in all fields of application. There are at present 600,000 kw. of rectifier installations, distributed over different parts of the world. Statistical data are given showing the growth of installed rectifier capacity since 1911, the distribution of rectifiers over various fields of application, and their increasing use at higher voltages for railways. The high efficiency and reliability of rectifiers at high voltages will undoubtedly influence the selection of systems and voltages for main-line electrification. Comparative operating figures are given for rectifiers and motor-generator sets at 3000 volts d-c. Several types of Brown Boveri rectifiers and their load curves are shown. Due to the fact that the d-c. voltage of a rectifier consists of portions of sine waves, the voltage wave is somewhat undulated. The magnitude of the undulations depends on the number of phases and varies with the load. The effect of the undulations in the voltage wave on the shape of the current wave for various types of loads is discussed, and oscillograms of the voltage and current waves of a rectifier feeding a railway load under various conditions are shown. The effects of the undulations on different kinds of load — batteries, lighting, and power circuits — and on communication circuits paralleling the d-c. feeders are discussed briefly."
"The United States is continuing its steady increase in demand for electricity. The government figures for power production for the month of May have just been issued showing that the country in that month used 6,515,570 kw-hr. of current. This is almost exactly 11 per cent greater than the May power consumption a year ago, and 1 per cent ahead of April of this year."
"J. F. H. Douglas: I wish to ask a question regarding the paragraph which reads, “It will be observed that the slope of the dotted line is still positive beyond the maximum power point of stable, steady-state operation. This means that if a machine were operating beyond the angle corresponding to maximum, steady-state power, say at 100 electrical degrees, the machine would be stable under sudden changes, although the steady-state characteristics at that point indicate instability.” I am somewhat curious to know under what operating conditions, if any, this becomes of interest?"
"R. H. Park: In the treatment of a complex problem such as the starting performance of a synchronous motor, it is necessary to employ simplifying assumptions to facilitate the calculation. At the same time, it is desirable to keep in mind just what assumptions have been employed."
"W. H. Millan: Mr. Ellyson's paper outlines the converting of an old manually operated station to modern automatic control."
"D. M. Petty: In reading the introduction to this paper, I noted that there was just one rather important point which Mr. Umansky did not cover. I think it is a rather vital point and is becoming more vital every day. That is, the relation of the power generated in steel plants to that which is purchased. A number of steel plants are making it a point to buy a certain proportion of their power and with the advent of interconnections of large power companies, I think the interchanging of power between steel companies and power companies becomes increasingly important. The power companies themselves, naturally, having a wider range of load, are now able to absorb waste-gas and waste-heat energy better than they otherwise could have done had their system been limited to a small territory, it being understood, of course, that the steel plant has this power available as a by-product."
"At a recent convention of the Association of Iron and Steel Electrical Engineers,1 Mr. Ward Harrison2 presented in a paper entitled “Fifteen Years of Steel Mill Illumination What Change?” a study of what such lighting was, is, and should be.3 In terms of the cost of steel, the cost of light from 1912 to 1927 has gone down in the ratio of 16 to 1. If one foot-candle was the illumination provided in the earlier day, the same ratio of cost of light to cost of steel would today provide sixteen foot-candles."
"According to the State Experiment Station at Geneva, New York, trial tests indicate that tent caterpillars, most ravenous of all insect pests, will forsake succulent young apple twigs any time to gather about a yellow electric lamp where there is plenty of light but not much bug fodder."
"A very profitable and enjoyable four-days meeting is planned for the coming Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute which will be held in Del Monte, Calif., September 13 to 16, with headquarters at the Hotel Del Monte. The technical papers are of highest quality and will cover some such timely subjects as application of intermediate synchronous condensers to transmission lines, transients and oscillations in transmission lines, oscillographic recording of transients, corona, the spheregap voltmeter, high-voltage circuit breakers, carrier-current protection, carriercurrent communication on power lines, long-distance and toll telephony and lightning protection for oil tanks. The number of papers on the program has been kept low so that there will be ample time for discussion. In addition to the technical papers there will be addresses by President Bancroft Gherardi and Dr. Harris J. Ryan. Further information on the events is given in the accompanying tentative program."
"The 1200 members and guests of the Institute who attended the forty-third Summer Convention held at the Book-Cadillac Hotel, Detroit, June 20–24, were amply repaid by a most excellent program of valuable technical contributions and many enjoyable entertainment features. Eight technical sessions as well as conferences of Section delegates and Branch counselors were held; also a meeting of the Board of Directors and a number of committee meetings. There were, too, numerous trips and a number of social and sports events."
"A meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held on Thursday afternoon, June 23rd, at the Book-Cadillac Hotel, Detroit, Michigan."
"When the Eleventh Exposition of chemical industries opens its doors at the Grand Central Palace, September 26th, there will be one of the greatest collections of exhibits ever assembled in any one place in the world."
"The John Scott medal, given annually in recognition of “useful inventions for the use and benefit of mankind,” has been awarded to D. D. Knowles, 28-year-old inventor of the Grid-Glow Relay. Notice of the award, which carries a cash prize of $1000 was given by Walter R. Russel, Acting Secretary. Presentation will be made at a later date."
"A revision of Section 13, A. I. E. E. Standards for Transformers, Induction Regulators and Reactors has been proposed by the A. I. E. E. Technical Committee on Electrical Machinery. The revision suggested is a development of those outlined in the May 1927 JOURNAL. The text of the revision is quoted herewith. Any suggestions or criticisms relative to these revisions should be addressed to H. E. Farrer, Secretary, A. I. E. E. Standards Committee. Copies of the current No. 13 may be obtained at a cost of 40 cents (50% discount to members A. I. E. E.)"
"What is perhaps the most complete private collection of works on the subject of electric communication is owned by Mr. Donald McNicol, a Fellow of the Institute and past-president of the Institute of Radio Engineers."
"W. P. Dobson, of Toronto, the Institute's Vice-president in District No. 10, on May 18 presented before the Saskatchewan Section at Regina, a paper entitled The Present State of the Insulator Problem, and on May 25, the same paper before the Vancouver Section. In each case he discussed Institute activities with relation to the Sections in Canada. He attended the annual meeting of the Vancouver Section on June 7, but, due to lack of time, was unable to accept invitations to visit the San Francisco and Los Angeles Sections. He did, however, visit Seattle, and met the officers of the Section there, with other members."
"Another honor has been accorded Orville Wright, pioneer in aviation, in the bestow al upon him of the Washington Award for 1927. The award was administered by the Western Society of Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers being represented on the Commission. Mr. Wright has of late been doing consulting engineering."
"Incidental to its centenary ceremonies, the University of Louvain conferred upon Alfred D. Flinn, Director of Engineering Foundation, the honorary degree of Doctor of Science. So special a dispensation of the Academic Council is noteworthy as an expression of good will from this ancient university to the engineers of the United States. Doctor Edward Dean Adams received the diploma for Mr. Flinn, whose work for Engineering Foundation necessitated a visit to the Pacific Coast at this time."
"E. J. Prindle has been elected president of the New York Patent Law Association. He was formerly with Prindle, Wright, Neal & Bean of New York, N. Y."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute section meetings."
"Immediately after the conclusion of the Sections Committee Conference, held at Detroit on June 20, in conjunction with the annual Summer Convention, a Conference on Student Activities was held, with Dr. C. E. Magnusson, Chairman of the Committee on Student Branches, presiding. There were present several members of the Board of Directors, many Section Delegates, seven Counselor Delegates, representing their District Committees on Student Activities, three District Secretaries or alternates, and a considerable number of other members."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 160,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m"
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING GRADUATE, 1926, B. S. in E. E., single, 23, with definite ability in research and development, and in general technical writing, desires permanent position with manufacturer of electrical apparatus. Vicinity of New York preferred. C-2967."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The usual understanding of the relationship between electrophysics and electrical engineering is that physicists discover facts and laws, develop methods of measurement, determine various constants, propose and work out in detail mathematical theories and hypotheses, etc., while electrical engineers later apply some of these valuable facts and theories to the design, construction, and operation of various practical devices and aggregates. While such a relationship exists between the two professions in many cases, yet there are numerous other cases in which certain practical requirements have to be met empirically, ahead of a careful study by physicsts, or where physicists and engineers have been working in parallel on different phases of the same problem."
"The confusion existing at present in the theory of synchronous machines is shown to be due to insufficient experimental evidence of the behavior of this type of machine under transverse magnetizing (cross magnetizing) conditions. A method of testing which yields the needed data is described. The results of these tests on a particular machine are given and analyzed. It is proved, for the machine tested, that the effect of transverse reaction can be most accurately estimated by the use of a magnetomotive force diagram. Experimental constants useful in design are found. A theory of the operation of synchronous machines is proposed, and a diagram for finding the performance of a synchronous machine from experimental tests is given; which, it is hoped, will be more accurate than present methods."
"The author points out certain reasons why specifications for purchased equipment have not followed the manufacturers' existing standards and recommends certain changes in standards for system and apparatus voltages. The importance of having transformers interchangeable as step-up and step-down units is pointed out and, by means of five per cent taps above and below rated voltages in both windings, it is proposed to obtain sufficient flexibility for such interchangeable use. The paper gives a comparison between transformers designed as suggested above and transformers designed according to the manufacturers' recommendations, and the suitability of the suggested tap range is pointed out. A recommendation is also made that the number of ratings of oil circuit breakers should be reduced."
"The m. m. f. waves of fractional slot windings or other irregular windings are found to contain harmonic components having wavelengths greater than two pole pitches. These are designated as sub-synchronous harmonics since their harmonic order is lower than that of the synchronously rotating wave. They induce currents in the damper windings of synchronous machines which may produce noticeable loss. Some test data concerning losses are included. These harmonics have an effect upon reactance and, under certain conditions, they may cause vibration. An appendix covers the calculation of the m. m. f. of three-phase fractional slot machines."
"One of the natural resources with which Switzerland is well endowed, says Commerce Reports, is water power making it to a large degree free from dependence on foreign countries for fuel. The high price of coal during the war turned attention to new uses for electricity, especially in households. Consumption for heating as well as lighting and cooking was increased and the basis was laid for a much wider use of electricity."
"It is usually necessary to place an air-gap in the core of a reactance or transformer which carries direct current in order to secure the greatest inductance. The work here reported points out a direct method of designing such reactances or transformers including the determination of the best value of the air-gap."
"The Bureau of Standards has just issued a paper by F. W. Dunmore, which describes the development of a portable radio direction finder with but two controls — one for tuning and one for balancing. This direction finder operates over the frequency band from 90 to 7700 kilocycles (3300 to 39 meters). The direction finder is of the simple rotating coil type. The receiving set is of the superheterodyne type, with the controls reduced to one by the use of a cam-operated condenser. The wide frequency range is made possible by a set of seven interchangeable plug-in direction finder coils, each with a corresponding heterodyne generator coil and cam for operating the auxiliary tuning condensers."
"Maxwell stated in his “Electricity and Magnetism” that for a non-homogeneous dielectric built up of n plane layers of varying thicknesses and varying ratios of resistivity to specific capacity, the charging current will be given by a linear differential equation of order n-1 involving the nth derivative of the applied e. m. f. This equation and its detailed solution are given here and the two cases of greatest practical interest, — namely the case where the applied e. m. f. is constant and the case where it is a pure harmonic, — are treated fully. By a Fourier analysis the general case can be reduced to these two."
"This paper deals with the induction lamp, or more generally speaking, the electrodeless electrical discharge. This lamp is a rich source of visible and ultra-violet radiation. The lamp has no electrodes, no conducting filaments and no conducting arc, as ordinarily understood. It operates on the principle of the electrodeless discharge which is produced in a partly exhausted vessel within a rapidly changing electromagnetic field. The discharge consists of visible and invisible radiations. The paper contains a historical introduction, an explanation of the theory of the electrodeless discharge and a description of the results of experiments."
"This paper, after referring to the work of previous investigators in the application of the photographic Lichtenberg figures to the measurement of surge voltages, describes results of additional work in this field by the authors. Laboratory calibrations of photographic Lichtenberg figures, using the cathode ray oscillograph and the lightning generator, are shown. Data are presented relative to the accuracy obtainable with these figures as a means of measuring surge voltages. An extension of instrument design is described in which two recording elements are used to give greater certainty of result. Means for connecting a surge voltage recorder instrument to a transmission line by an insulator-string potentiometer are described, and calibration of the instrument with potentiometer is given up to 1400 kv. Specimen field records of surge voltages up to 2000 kv. are shown."
"The new street lighting system of the city of St. Louis will be turned on and off at sunset and sunrise without the aid of human hand."
"A shielded, a-c, inductance bridge adapted to the measurement of inductive impedances at frequencies up to 50,000 cycles is described. The bridge comprises a balancing unit and associated standards of inductance and resistance. The balancing unit has resistance ratio arms specially constructed to meet the requirements imposed by the above frequency range. The reference standard makes use of inductance coils of a new type, their cores being of magnetic instead of non-magnetic material as is usually the case. The use of such cores results in coils that are smaller and hence better adapted to assembly in a multiple shielded standard. The bridge is completely shielded so as to eliminate, to a high degree, errors due to parasitic capacitance currents. The shielding is also arranged so as to permit the correct measurement of either “grounded” or “balanced-to-ground” impedances. A series of diagrams is shown for the purpose of indicating the function of each part of the shielding system. Equations expressing the errors resulting from any small residual capacitance unbalances in the resultant bridge network are given and calculations made of the balances required for the desired degree of measurement precision. Test data are presented illustrating a method of experimentally checking the residual shunt and series balances from which it is concluded that the bridge is capable of comparing two equal inductive impedances of large phase angle with an accuracy at the maximum frequency of 0.02 per cent for inductance and 1.0 per cent for resistance."
"Explanation of authorship and basis of paper. General discussion of the proposed system voltage standards and the principles underlying them. Listing of transformer voltages and kv-a. connected now in use by P. C. E. A. Companies. Detailed discussion of changes in proposed standards to bring them into conformity with Pacific Coast practise. Summary and conclusion."
"A MISSIONARY EFFORT WHICH SUCCEEDED I trust that I will be pardoned for speaking now about my own missionary efforts among the unbelievers in the telegraph and telephone industries. I began to make these efforts a few years after Hertz, by his classical experiments, had clarified my ideas and everybody else's ideas concerning Maxwell's meaning. At that time I had never even heard of Heaviside or of Vaschy and of their advocacy of high inductance, but I had heard from my friends in the telephone industry of the inefficiency of telephonic transmission and of the failures to improve it by increased inductance. It was obvious that the increase which they described was too small and full of absorptive losses. Highly efficient coils of large inductance inserted at periodically recurring intervals into the line was the remedy which I proposed. But I was told that the remedy had been tried and that a dismal failure had resulted. I was also reminded that universal experience recommended the removal of inductance coils from telegraph and telephone lines; their interference with transmission, they said, had earned for them the opprobrious name “choke coils.” It was clear that I had to furnish a proof which would convince even the most prejudiced among the telephone and telegraph engineers that inductance coils in a transmission line do not always act as “choke coils.” Such a proof would have been worthless if it had consisted of mathematical formulas only. I needed the formulas myself for my own guidance, but watching the developments in wireless telegraphy which was born at that time I learned that full-sized apparatus and successful operation was the only proof which would appeal to the so-called practical engineer. He is like the man from Missouri who “wants to be shown,” by actual experimental performance and by nothing less. My mathematical solution of the problem of transmission over a lumpy telephone line containing inductance coils at periodically recurring points filled me with confidence; it had never been even attempted by the advocates of high inductance. They evidently had missed an important concept in the physical character of the transmission problem. The length of the wave to be transmitted was not considered and hardly ever mentioned by them, and hence their failure to recognize in it one of the fundamental elements in the study of transmission of magnetic action over such a line."
"F. E. Terman: The future of engineering education may be profoundly affected by the work which the psychologists are beginning on special interest and special aptitude tests."
"W. C. Lee: Carrier-current systems are, in general, very sensitive to insulation conditions on the line, especially at frequencies above 10 kilocycles, and the value of washing insulators as a means of maintaining a high degree of insulation resistance west of Salt Lake City is demonstrated by the fact that our carrier telegraph system has operated for five years without a single interruption due to failure of the line to transmit sufficient current."
"Joseph Slepian: I was surprised when I read in Professor Sorensen's paper that he found very little pitting or vaporizing of the electrodes. It seems to me that this, if true, must call for some radical revision in our ideas of electric arcs."
"David Hall: As a designer of electrical machinery, I feel that this paper is valuable to the users of machinery because it points out some of the factors which are more or less concealed. We have specifications covering machines which do not cover the factors presented here and these factors are in many cases as important as the outstanding specifications of temperature and efficiency. We have pointed out in Mr. Shirley's paper certain “red flags” beyond which the designer knows his machine will “lie down.” It is very useful to have those red flags placed before the designer."
"H. C. Don Carlos: We have found in some cases where machines were designed as semi-enclosed or totally enclosed machines that on account of the lack of fire protection it was necessary to change these to open-type machines, so that we could get to the fire to put it out in case of failure."
"T. E. Shea: Mr. Rasmussen has discussed the need for accurate and ready measurements of frequency. It is rather difficult to overstress the importance of frequency as an engineering variable in communications work, for the whole transmission problem centers about the signals we want to transmit and the interference we don't want to transmit. Both the signals and the interference are made up of a large number of frequency components and so the vital transmission characteristic of communication networks may be said to be frequency characteristics. We have frequency against impedance, or reflection coefficient; frequency against transmission loss, or attenuation; frequency against phase shift, and so on — always frequency against some other variable."
"J. A. Summers: One of the difficulties in yard lighting is that space where towers or projectors may be located is valuable. The lighting of the area in the yard itself is very simple, but there are many problems which must be overcome in connection with glare and location of projectors. The intensity may be as low as 0.21 foot-candle. With such low intensities and poor reflection factors from the cars, the problem is not so simple as that of lighting an open space."
"In June 1926 C. P. Jensen, Managing Director of the Osram Company, Berlin, lectured at Wiesbaden before the 31st Congress of the Association of German Engineers. Mr. Jensen stated that the “aim of illuminating economics is to treat light economically like any other raw material and to see to it that the expenses for light are compared with the useful effect obtained and examined as to their justifiability in order to avoid wasteful and extravagant management either from a misinterpreted sense of economy and thrift or prodigality.”"
"Plans for the Winter Convention of the Institute to be held in New York February 7–11 have been completed and the advance registration indicates a large attendance. The Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, will be headquarters for the convention."
"The first Regional Meeting of District No. 7 of the Institute will be held in Kansas City on March 17 and 18. Headquarters will be in the Kansas City Athletic Club, 11th and Baltimore Streets, where all the sessions will be held. A program containing a variety of technical subjects, as well as a banquet and inspection trips, has been arranged."
"The date of the Regional Meeting which will be held in Bethlehem, Pa., under direction of District No. 2, has been postponed to April 21–23."
"Pittsfield, Mass., will be the location of this year's regional meeting of District No. 1 which will be held on May 25, 26 and 27."
"Electrification of the Rubber-Reclaiming Industry, by A. P. Regal, Philadelphia Rubber Co. February 18."
"The following announcement relates to the annual prizes for authors of papers presented at meetings of the Institute, and includes details of procedure, relative to submitting papers in the various competitions, as approved by the Board of Directors and applying to papers presented during the year 1926 and thereafter."
"A new section of the A. I. E. E. Standards, No. 33, Electrical Measuring Instruments is now available in final approved form. It was adopted by the Board of Directors, December 10,1926 and is to become effective April 1, 1927. The standards in this section apply to the following kinds of indicating electrical instruments for direct and alternating current: Ammeters; voltmeters; wattmeters; reactive volt-ampere meters; frequency meters; power-factor, reactive factor and phase-angle meters; synchroscopes."
"In the January 1927 JOURNAL, page 82, a proposed revision of A. I. E. E. Standards for Alternators, Synchronous Motors and Synchronous Machines, Section 7 of the Standards, is outlined. Through an error the formula for natural frequency appeared without the radical sign. It should have been expressed as follows:"
"The Edison Medal which was awarded in December to Dr. William D. Coolidge “for the origination of ductile tungsten and the fundamental improvement of the X-ray tube,” has been declined by Dr. Coolidge, for the reason given in the following letter:"
"More than 200 industrial men attended the second annual conference on welding held December 15–16–17, 1926 at LaFayette, Ind., under the auspices of the Engineering Extension Department of Purdue University. There were given several very interesting demonstrations in electric, thermit and oxyacetylene welding and lectures by welding experts from all over the United States. Professor W. A. Knapp of Purdue University presided and introduced the speakers who were men of prominence in their profession. The attendance and interest shown in this second welding conference was most gratifying to the committee in charge."
"The Annual Meeting of the American Engineering Council was held in Washington, D. C., at the Mayflower Hotel, January 13–15, 1927. The attendance of delegates and others interested was approximately one hundred. The various national, state and regional engineering societies constituting the membership of the Council were practically all represented by official delegates. President Dexter S. Kimball of Cornell University, presided."
"On January 10–12, inclusive, the Institute of Radio Engineers held its Annual Convention at the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street. The convention opened Monday morning with the presentation of the Liebmann Memorial Prize and the installation of officers for 1927, Doctor Ralph Bown of the American Telegraph and Telephone Company having been chosen to succeed Mr. Donald McNicol in the office of President."
"On January 13th, Arthur Williams, president of the American Museum of Safety, tendered a luncheon to the presidents of the prize winning railroads, the trustees of the museum and other leaders of the safety movement. The luncheon was held at the Hotel Biltmore, and after a brief address, Judge Elbert H. Gary, as vice-president of the Museum presented the Harriman Medal, in gold, silver and bronze, to the presidents of the three railroads which have been most successful in the prevention of accidents to their employes and passengers during the year 1925. The medals are offered annually by Mrs. E. H. Harriman to stimulate interest in permanently organized activities for accident prevention for the employes as well as the passengers of the various railroads. John J. Esch, chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission and a member of the Committee of Award, declared that “by the 1st of July of this year it is expected that 8000 miles of railroad will be supplied with some form of automatic train control to prevent collisions and from 6000 to 7000 locomotives will be so equipped.” The medalists were W. A. McGonagle, president of the Duluth, Missabe and Northern Railway Company (silver medal), Charles W. Cox, Secretary-treasurer of the Green Bay and Western Lines, (bronze medal) and Carl Gray, president of the Union Pacific System (geld medal) for a record showing that not a single life had been lost during 1925, notwithstanding the fact that this company operates more than 53,000,000 locomotive miles and more than a billion passenger miles, due to railroad accident. Only five employes were killed in non-train accidents. Among the guests of honor were several prominent members of the Institute."
"On the evening of Wednesday, January 19, 1927, the New York Section of the A. I. E. E. held a joint meeting with the Metropolitian Section of the A. S. M. E. in the Public Service Auditorium, Newark, N. J. The subject “Modern Central Station Design” proved very attractive as evidenced by an attendance of over 800. Four speakers covered both the mechanical and electrical sides of plant design as follows: E. B. Ricketts and R. H. Tapscott of the New York Edison Company on “The New East River Station” and R. J. S. Pigott and W. R. Smith of the Public Service Company on “The Kearney Station of the Public Service Company.” The talks, which in general covered the bulk generation of power, dealt particularly with the engineering features underlying the general design and arrangement of the plants. All talks were generously illustrated with lantern slides. Chairman E. B. Meyer of the N. Y. Section A. I. E. E. presided over the presentation of the papers and Chairman Frost of the A. S. M. E. over the discussion. The meeting was preceded by a very successful “Get-to-gether Dinner” at the Robert Treat Hotel, attended by 420 members and guests."
"Safety rules for installing and using electrical equipment in coal mines, sponsored by the Bureau of Mines, Department of Commerce, and the American Mining Congress, have just been made public by the Bureau. In preparing the rules, five basic measures for safeguarding the use of electricity in mines have been followed, viz.: Removing the contributory causes of accidents or danger; removing from the vicinity of electrical apparatus all elements susceptible to the influence of electricity; complete control of electric current, or limiting the area of its activity by protective devices; using a large factor of safety in the selection, installation, and inspection of equipment, and the full control of the operation of electrically driven machines."
"A committee of the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies has prepared tentative specifications for guidance of central station members in selecting residence lighting equipment for sale to the public. This committee includes representatives of seven central station companies. It has enjoyed the cooperation of a committee of the Illuminating Engineering Society which has sponsored those portions of the specifications which have to do strictly with lighting qualities."
"Research Graduate Assistantships are being maintained by the Engineering Experiment Station of the University of Illinois. The research graduate assistants devote one-half time to engineering research and the remainder of their time to graduate study. The training they receive in engineering research and graduate study gives them excellent preparation for engineering teaching, for engineering research, and for the profession of engineering."
"THOMAS A. FAWELL, previously of San Francisco, is now representing Kohlenite Products, Inc., of New York City and the Martindale Electric Company of Cleveland, Ohio."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York."
"Anson Wood Burchard, Associate of A. I. E. E., died suddenly January 24, 1927 at the home of Mortimer L. Schiff. Mr. Burchard since 1922 has been Vice-Chairman of the Board of the General Electric and prior to that time had been for many years a vice-president of the Company. He was Chairman of the Board of Directors of the International General Electric Company, and as such had the general direction of the export business of the company. In addition to this he was director of many public utility corporations. During the war he acted as assistant to Benedict Crowell, who was Director of Munitions."
"Outdoor Substations, by Paul Simon, Delta Star Electric Co. Illustrated with motion pictures. December 17. Attendance 52."
"The electrical engineering students in the colleges today constitute the group from which will be built the foundation of the Institute of the future. In recognition of this fact, the Board of Directors of the Institute, many years ago, authorized the establishment of Student Branches composed of electrical engineering students in the various colleges, for the purpose of providing an instrumentality for the development of the latent ability of students in carrying on organization work by actual participation in meetings and other activities."
"Outdoor Substations, by Mr. Simons, Delta Star Co. December 17. Attendance 15."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Robert Andrew Millikan, Director of the Norman Bridge Laboratory of Physics of the California Institute of Technology, Edison Medalist for 1922 and one of the best known physicists of the country, was born at Morrison, Illinois, March 22, 1868. He was granted his A. B. from Oberlin College in 1891, and his Ph. D. from Columbia in 1895. In the years 1895–96, he attended the universities of Berlin and Göttingen. Oberlin awarded him the Sc. D. in 1911; the Northwestern University granted him like degree in 1913; University of Pennsylvania, in 1915; Columbia University and Amherst College in 1917, and the University of Dublin in 1924. He was also awarded an LL.D. degree from the University of California in 1924, and from Yale in 1925; in 1926, a Ph. D. degree from the King John Casimir University of Poland. From 1891 to 1893 he tutored in physics at Oberlin. In 1896 he became assistant in physics at the University of Chicago, from which he rose to assistant professor in 1902; 1906–10 he was associate professor, when he was chosen professor of physics at the University of Chicago. In all this work of instruction, he evidenced rare ability to impart his own extraordinary scientific knowledge to those with whom he was working as well as applying it significantly to problems of research; in fact, Doctor Millikan was one of the initiators of the National Research Council — a development which has proved its worth innumerably. It has ever been Doctor Millikan's contention that “the way men think is the most important and most practical thing in human progress” and since the days of his own early training, it has been his unceasing ambition to teach men to think. The cognomen “producer of men” has been aptly bestowed upon him, for his efforts have been untiringly loyal to the cause of scientific progress. He has been an inspiration to others, especially to the young men, who look up to him for advice from a clear thinker with high ideals, scientific wisdom, great humanity and absolute intellectual integrity. His is the ability to stimulate in individuals an almost superhuman activity, which, in conjunction with his many other creditable characteristics, has made his field of achievement practically unlimited."
"The Holtwood Steam Plant is located in Lancaster County, Pa., on the Susquehanna River, about 24 miles above tidewater, adjacent to and closely coordinated with the 111,000-kw. hydroelectric plant of the Pennsylvania Water & Power Company, and through the latter company's customers, it is a part of a hydro-steam system including Baltimore, Md., and Lancaster, York, and Coatesville, Pa., with a total installed generator capacity of about 370,000 kw. and with high-tension connections to two other large systems. It is a pulverized fuel burning station, containing at present two 10,000-kw. generators and three 1400-h. p. boilers. The plant is laid out for an ultimate capacity of at least 120,000 kw. The station went into operation in July 1925. The paper gives the reasons for building a steam plant at Holtwood, some of them being general advantages in such a location for a plant, which is supplementary to a run-of-river hydroelectric plant, and others being the particular advantage, in this instance. In general, during the low-flow period, the steam plant carries the base load or belt generation, and during high flow, when the hydroelectric plant is operated at maximum capacity whenever the load permits, the steam plant carries the peaks. This station was especially planned to suit such conditions of operation and was designed for mechanical sturdiness, reliability of service, quick starting, ability to float in at no load and for maximum coordination with the hydroelectric plant rather than for maximum economy or minimum first cost. A number of special features incorporated to carry out this aim is described in the paper, among them being arrangements to facilitate quick starting and floating in, and a special governor so constructed that the speed regulation may be changed by remote control while the unit is running. A comparative analysis of starting times of hydroelectric and steam units at Holtwood is given, showing that in spite of special design, the steam unit requires a much longer time than the hydroelectric unit. The pulverized fuel process was adopted in order to secure better sustained efficiency over a wide range of boiler rating, to reduce banking losses and because it was desired to burn bituminous coal of various grades in the same furnaces with river bottom anthractite coal which is dredged from the upper end of the pond formed by the Holtwood dam. This has been successfully accomplished, approximately one-third of all the coal burned, so far, having been river anthracite. During short periods, anthractire alone has been burned, but most of the time the two kinds of coal are mixed before being dried and pulverized. Maintenance costs at the pulverizing plant when burning 100 per cent anthractire are very high. Data are presented showing the first cost of the plant, fuel rates, costs of preparing river anthractite, outage time of the generating units and other operating results. A brief summary is given also of minor difficulties. On account of the unusual operating requirements as to loading, fuel supply, etc., the design and operation of this plant involved a number of interesting problems in design and operation, for the solution of which only a limited amount of experience was available. It is believed that nearly all of the major problems have been solved satisfactorily, but there is still need for further experimentation to secure the best possible results from the equipment installed."
"In this paper the author has outlined the evolution of multiple conductor joints and explained in detail the development of a three-conductor, high-voltage joint for use with belted and metal sheathed cables or combinations of these. In the final design, spreaders and barrier tubes have been replaced by specially reinforced crotches and hand-wrapped insulation. To date, all tests, — short time and accelerated life, a-c. and d-c., — have produced failures in cable rather than in joints so constructed. Many other claims of superiority over existing types are presented."
"A method is described for using a cathode-ray oscillograph for the simultaneous observation of a number of variable quantities by means of a distributor. A linear time-axis, obtained by means of a gas-discharge lamp connected to a source of direct-current through a resistance or thermionic tube, is stabilized by introducing into this circuit a small e. m. f. derived from the same source that supplies the unknown quantities under observation. By making stabilization definitive rather than casual, distortion is avoided. The unknown quantities are thus shown in a form convenient for observation, appearing as stationary curves plotted with time as abscissa. The curves may be superposed about a common zero line, or displaced with reference to each other with separate zero lines. The name oscilloscope is applied to the apparatus here described, assembled as an instrument."
"Recent years have witnessed a great increase of interest in the relation of illumination to effective vision and efficient work. Better lighting makes it possible to see more quickly and more accurately than under poor lighting conditions. Although there are many other factors involved in vision and its relation to production, the speed of vision is one of great interest. It has been known for a long time that the retinal image must be stationary if it is to be seen clearly or even at all. Just what the minimum exposure time of the stationary image must be has been only approximately known. The eyes are always more or less in motion, and often they are engaged in trying to discriminate details which are moving. In reading, for example, the movement of the eyes consists chiefly of rapid sweeps with brief pauses between them. During the sweeps it is impossible for the details to make a sufficient impression, since the image is rushing across the retina. It is only during the fixational pauses in the eye movements, when the image is nearly or quite at rest on the retina, that an adequate impression is made."
"The practise of making quantitative measurements on the individual units of radio receivers is quite general, but seldom are such measurements made on receivers as a whole because of certain difficulties encountered in this type of measurement. This paper describes apparatus developed to overcome these difficulties and to make possible a study of the performance of receivers as such. The over-all characteristics of receivers are classified and described, the method of tests for obtaining measurements on them explained, with some curves shown to illustrate the results obtained from these tests."
"In the case of high-speed turbine generators, the most reliable means of determining the losses under actual operating conditions is to measure the weight and temperature rise of the cooling medium and to estimate the small part of the losses which is dissipated from the frame to the surrounding medium. The temperature rise of the cooling medium can be obtained by means of temperature detectors located at the inlet and outlet sections of the generator. In order to obtain reliable values of the average temperature rise for the machine, it is necessary to have approximately uniform velocities at both inlet and outlet sections and to measure the temperature rise at a large number of incremental sections. The volume of cooling medium passing through the machine can be determined by (a) introducing a definite amount of heat energy into the cooling medium and measuring its temperature rise, or (b) measuring the mean velocity head at the outlet section of a properly designed stock. Loss tests were made on five 3600-rev. per. min. turbine generators when operated as synchronous condensers. In the case of these machines, the additional losses including the increase in core loss at full kv-a. and zero per cent power-factor load varied from 3 to 22 per cent of the total losses. This corresponds to approximately 0.14 to 1.0 per cent of the generator input. The additional losses as measured under sustained short-circuit conditions were from 5 to 10 per cent less than the corresponding values for full kv-a. at zero per cent power factor. It is suggested that data can be obtained for predetermining the magnitude of the total additional losses by measuring the loss in each structural part and determining graphically the magnetizing flux which produces it. The magnetizing flux distributions at different parts of the machine were plotted for different ampere-turn relations. Additional studies are being made on methods of calculating the magnitude of the additional losses and the increase in core loss with load."
"The appalling loss of life and property in the valley of the Mississippi and along its lower tributaries brings to the front the urgent necessity of remedial measures which will effectively and permanently put an end to this recurring scourge. For half a century at least the problem of controlling the floods of the Mississippi has been before the nation, but the awfulness of the present visitation shows how ineffectual the remedy has been. Civilization has greatly added to rather than subtracted from the danger of such floods, because roads, sewers, houses and the cutting down of forests hasten the run-off to the river. It is therefore obligatory in engineers to find a solution to the problem whose seriousness has thus been increased manyfold by civilization itself, and toward that solution the electrical industry can contribute."
"The great Mississippi River flood has demonstrated that the modern method of connecting up many cities and towns into systems in the distribution of electric power is one means of meeting emergencies. Throughout Arkansas and the other lower Mississippi states many a half-submerged community has electric light in its occupied houses for the reason that there was no local power plant “down by the river” to be drowned out by high water. Electricity continued available because it came in by way of a pole line that was a part of a wire system connecting several power plants in various parts of the country with many cities and towns."
"This paper, which deals with the experimental determination of magnetic fields, is presented as a verification of some of the results described by Messrs. A. R. Stevenson, Jr., and R. H. Park in a companion paper, “Graphical Determination of Magnetic Fields — Theoretical Considerations,” and to introduce new and convenient methods of determining the flux distributions in air spaces and in regions occupied by current carrying media. The particular case dealt with is the determination of the leakage flux about the field poles of an alternator at no load, both in the copper and in the surrounding air spaces."
"The rapid advances made in the application of automatic principles to the control of electrical energy have produced many new and novel installations. This paper describes a supervisory system which centralizes the control and indication of all power used in operating a modern interurban railroad. Supervision is accomplished over a single circuit consisting of one insulated wire with ground return. A single frequency carrier current is used for transmitting all signals over the circuit connecting all stations. Considerable attention has been given to make the equipment simple in design, rugged in construction, easy to install and convenient to maintain."
"The melting of certain metals by the use of electricity as compared with coal-fired furnaces has been described by the Chief of the Metallurgical Division of the Bureau of Standards in a statement recently released for publication."
"The advantages of arc welding in manufacturing, instead of riveting or using cast iron are set forth in this paper. These advantages for manufacturing pipe are especially emphasized and information is given on the manufacture of the pipe for one particular pipe line, 90 mi. long, for which automatic arc welding is used. There is discussion, also, on the possibilities of arc yielding pipe joints in the field."
"This paper tells briefly of the work done by the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., on large steel tank rectifiers between the years 1908 and 1918. The difficulties involved in the development of this type of apparatus are mentioned with the continued efforts which were necessary to overcome them. Some of the design details of the rectifiers built are given with the results obtained from them. Three actual installations which are typical are discussed to show how these rectifiers performed in service. Reasons other than the performance of the rectifiers themselves were mainly responsible for the cessation of this phase of development. This work remains of great importance, as the principles established are widely used on the rectifiers constructed at the present time."
"This paper is a general guide for inspection and maintenance practise in automatic stations. It suggests in a broad way how these duties should be performed and this should be helpful in drawing up definite schedules for particular stations."
"K. B. McEachron: In discussing the paper by Messrs. Cox, McAuley and Huggins, and also the paper by Mr. Cox, I wish to raise a question concerning the conclusions. It does not seem to me that the data given support the definite conclusions drawn. For instance, the first conclusion in the Cox, McAuley and Huggins paper states that the voltages due to lightning are unidirectional, and that the cloud which produces surges is of negative polarity resulting in positive induced voltages and negative direct-stroke voltages. The evidence which we have at the present time supports this conclusion but sufficient evidence to make such a positive statement appears to be lacking."
"C. H. Linder: Any simple experimental method of magnetic field plotting is very useful in connection with a mathematical investigation of flux distribution. The accompanying Figs. 1 to 9 demonstrate the efficacy of the iron-filing method for determining the general form of a magnetic field."
"J. D. Hilliard: The management of the American Gas and Electric Company, and other companies allied in making the tests, showed real courage in permitting repeated and severe short circuits to be thrown on the system, — short circuits of greater magnitude than any to which high-voltage system had hitherto been intentionally subjected, — and they deserve the thanks of the electrical profession. The operating and construction departments also deserve credit for their efforts in carrying out the testing program in an efficient and expeditious manner."
"I. H. Summers: Referring to Fig. 3, in which data are given for a 600-volt winding, one bar per slot, the load loss at 100 per cent kv-a. is slightly more than 20 per cent of the full-load loss. Referring to Fig. 4, in which data are given for a 2300-volt winding, 2-coil sides per slot, the load loss at 100 per cent kv-a. is approximately 3 per cent of the full-load loss."
"E. D. Treanor: The authors' criticism of the conventional method of stating the characteristics of constant-current transformers is possibly justified in that this method was indefinite and allowed the possibility of misinterpretation by the purchaser and of neglect by the manufacturer. The assumption that the losses remain essentially constant at all loads was of course known to be not strictly accurate, but the method was of long standing and thought to be satisfactory for transformers which were usually operated near full load or on taps which approximate full-load conditions. It was a convenient assumption because it simplified and reduced the costs of tests and gave accurate results at the point of usual loading."
"H. R. Park: I should like to supplement Mr. Lincoln's paper by outlining the field for electric are welded pipe in the petroleum industry with special regard to oil and gas transmission lines and mention some of the factors which must be considered when are-welded pipe is used for this duty."
"R. M. Kerchner: It seems to me that some of Mr. Grandy's statements, while not incorrect, may be a little misleading, while some assumptions are made that exaggerate the poor qualities of the transmitter."
"R. J. Wensley: There are many applications for remote control of power apparatus where the distance is such that control conductors become prohibitively expensive. Such applications are usually in connection with high-voltage systems where inductive interference would be severe should control circuits be constructed along the transmission right-of-way. The Alabama Power Company solved such a problem in a very ingenious manner. They have an extensive 110-kv., “H”-type wooden-pole transmission system. Their southern loop is to be sectionalized at intervals of about 15 mi. by motor-operated disconnecting switches. As there are several hundred miles of this loop, the construction of separate control circuits would have been very expensive."
"To describe in a few words the complete electrical equipment of the Roxy Theater in New York, of which an important part lies in the lighting, borders on the impossible. The master showman — Roxy — uses electricity everywhere to make his house a real “Cathedral of the motion picture.”"
"The Illuminating Engineering Society Committee on Research has published a list of fifty lighting research problems suitable for investigation by Engineers or Engineering students and seventeen problems for Scientists or Science students. The list appears in the Transactions of the I. E. S., February 1927, pp. 190–194.1 The Committee points out that work has been done on all the subjects listed. In many cases the work is satisfactory so far as it goes, but the problems are so ramified and far reaching that valuable contributions may still be made."
"An extensive and varied technical program and very enjoyable recreational features will contribute to make the coming Summer Convention one of the most successful of the Institute's history. This convention will be held in Detroit, Michigan, with headquarters at the Book-Cadillac Hotel, June 20–24."
"A most successful regional meeting was held in Pittsfield, Mass., May 25–28, under the direction of the Northeastern District of the Institute. This fourth regional meeting of the district has not been surpassed for the quality of its program and the perfection of its management. Approximately 550 members and guests, including many ladies, were present."
"Already a program of particular interest has been arranged rather definitely for the coming Pacific Coast Convention, which will be held in Del Monte, Cal., September 13–16."
"The annual report of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was presented at the annual business meeting of the Institute held in New York Friday evening, May 20."
"Bancroft Gherardi, vice-president and chief engineer, American Telephone & Telegraph Company, New York City, has been elected President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the year beginning August 1, 1927, as announced in the report of the Committee of Tellers, published elsewhere in this issue."
"The meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute called for New York on Friday, May 20, 1927, was adjourned and continued in Pittsfield, Mass., on Thursday morning, May 26, during the Regional Convention of District No. 1."
"The American Society for Testing Materials will hold its thirtieth annual meeting June 20–24, 1927, at French Lick, Ind. The sessions will open Monday, June 21 — (the preceding day being given over to registration and committee meetings) and will include the following subjects: Wrought iron, cast iron, magnetic testing, testing and nomenclature, petroleum products, insulating materials and preservative coatings, corrosion endurance testing and wear testing of metals, non-ferrous metals and metallography, clay and concrete products and building stone, cement, lime and gypsum, road materials and waterproofing. Tennis and golf tournaments will furnish recreation, beside the informal dance and smoker which will be a part of the convention program. The Edgar Marburg Lecture will be delivered Wednesday, June 22d, at 4 p. m."
"The annual business meeting of the Institute was held at the Engineering Societies Building, New York, on Friday evening, May 20, 1927. Vice-President H. M. Hobart presiding, called upon National Secretary Hutchinson, who presented in abstract the annual report of the Board of Directors, printed copies of which had been distributed to members in attendance. (This report is referred to elsewhere in this issue)."
"At the May meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute, the Committee on Award of Institute Prizes reported the following awards of national prizes for papers presented during the year 1926:"
"Dr. W. D. Coolidge, assistant director of the research laboratory of the General Electric Company, has been honored by the Franklin Institute anci the American College of Radiology. Both honors, with gold medals, were received May 18, one in the afternoon in Philadelphia and the other in the evening at Washington."
"A revision of Section 36 of the A. I. E. E. Standards for Storage Batteries has been in course of development for some time and is now available for criticism and suggestion before final adoption. Copies of this pamphlet may be obtained without charge by writing to H. E. Farrer, Secretary, A. I. E. E. Standards Committee, 33 West 39th St., New York, N.Y."
"In conformity with the action of the board of directors of the General Electric Company, an engineering council has been appointed. The council includes Messrs. E. W. Rice, Jr., honorary chairman (ex-officio); E. W. Allen, chairman; Elihu Thomson, A. C. Davis, W, R. Whitney, W. L. R. Emmet, C. C. Chesney and C. E. Eveleth."
"In October, 1924, the Committee on Patent Office Procedure, appointed by Mr. Hubert Work, Secretary of the Department of the Interior, began to function. The Secretary, in a statement to the committee, said, “A very useful purpose may be served by this committee of prominent patent attorneys, representatives of industrial organizations and the engineering profession, in making a thorough review of the Patent Office, with a view of simplifying the methods of procedure and expediting the handling of applications for patents.”"
"Dean Dexter S. Kimball, President of American Engineering Council and Past-President of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, opened the conference by calling attention to the simplification movement in the industries of the United States, especially the work being carried on by the Department of Commerce."
"The Standards Year Book represents an effort to present an adequate description of the diversification and ramification of the standardization movement that have elapsed throughout the world since the establishment of the National Bureau of Standards. It contains outlines of the activities and accomplishments of not only this bureau and other agencies of the Federal Government and the states and municipalities, but also of the American societies and associations of which standardization is an important activity. Descriptions and illustrations are presented of all the fundamental national standards of the United States, and outlines of the various foreign national and the several international standardizing agencies."
"Upon the recommendation of Professor V. Karapetoff, chairman of the Committee on Electrophysics. the American Physical Society, was recently invited to designate two of its members to act as “liaison representatives” of that society upon the Electrophysics Committee."
"The National museum of engineering and industry held its third annual meeting at its headquarters in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th Street, New York City, on Thursday afternoon, April 28th, at 4 o'clock."
"A combination representing all of the principal French chemical industries has been officially confirmed to the Department of Commerce. A permanent industrial chemical committee will act as the directing organization of this union and will control it along the lines adopted b y the French steel industry. It will also be effective in tying this union in with the German and English combinations already in existence."
"HERBERT G. LINDNER, transmission engineer for the Wisconsin Telephone Company, Milwaukee, Wis., has been transferred to the Bell Telephone Laboratories, New York, N. Y."
"George Eisenhauer, electrical engineer for the Erie Railroad Co., and an Associate of the Institute since 1912, died February 14th. Mr. Eisenhauer was a native of New York City and since his school days has been associated with the Erie Railroad Company in the varying capacities of telegrapher, signal inspector, chief electrical inspector, and acting electrical engineer. He was born December 21, 1870, and has accomplished his technical success b y practical experience with only a common school education, followed b y a correspondence course and home study."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal Authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute section meetings."
"The Nebraska Section entertained the juniors, seniors, and faculty members in electrical engineering at the University of Nebraska during the entire day and evening of May 10, 1927. The following program was followed, all parts being in Omaha: Inspection, Omaha and Council Bluffs Street Railway power plant. Nebraska Power Co. plant."
"A joint meeting of the Portland Section and the Oregon Agricultural College Branch was held at Corvallis on May 7, 1927."
"The annual joint meeting of the Utah Section and University of Utah Branch was held in Salt Lake City on April 28, 1927, and the following program was presented by students:"
"The Biennial Electrical Engineers' Party at the University of Minnesota was held on April 21–22. This form of entertainment was adopted in 1913 to provide a social function strictly electrical in theme and management."
"An abridgment of a paper presented at the New York Student Convention on April 8, 1927 for which the author was awarded the prize of $25.00 in gold offered by the New York Section."
"An abridgment of a paper for which the author was awarded the Best Branch Paper Prize in Geographical District No. 1 for 1926. A copy of the paper is on file at Institute headquarters."
"The Committee on Awards of District No. 1 has awarded the Best Branch Paper Prize for 1926 to Mr. Samuel W. Marshall, Jr. for his paper entitled Direct-Current Transmission Considerations, which was presented at the Student Convention of the North Eastern District held at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on May 7, 1926. Mr. Marshall was at that time a graduate student in electrical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."
"Officers of the Stanford University Branches of the A. S. C. E., A. I. E. E., A. S. M. E., and A. I. M. E. organized a General Engineering Council on April 13, 1927, and A. V. Pering, Chairman of the Stanford Branch, A. I. E. E., was elected Chairman."
"The Louisiana State University Branch held an Electrical Vaudeville on April 21st. The program included thirty exhibits and tricks covering a wide range of electrical and magnetic phenomena as well as some of the laws of liquids, gases, etc. Induction coils, electromagnets, and the principles of motor operation were prominent in the program. In addition to being entertained, the 380 who attended received several surprises."
"During the present academic year, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Branch has been distributing each Friday, at cost, mimeographed solutions of the home problems assigned during the week just past to juniors and seniors in the Principles of Electrical Engineering. The solutions are distributed just in time for study before the weekly two hour examination. The plan has the full support of the Department of Electrical Engineering, and the problems are solved by members of the faculty."
"Motion pictures, entitled respectively “The Building of New York's Newest Subway” and “Portable Electricity,” were shown. Questions on last subject answered by the Cleveland representative of the Edison Storage Battery Co. April 8. Attendance 42."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America, A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The actions specified in the Institute's Constitution and By-laws relative to the organization of a National Nominating Committee are being taken, and the meeting of the National Nominating Committee for the nomination of officers to be voted upon at the election in the Spring of 1928 will be held between November 15 and December 15. All suggestions for the consideration of the National Nominating Committee must be received by the Secretary of the Committee at Institute Headquarters, New York, not later than November 15."
"The paper deals with records which have been obtained during short circuits upon the Southern California Edison's 220-kv. system. The main features of the system are outlined, and such operating data as are necessary to afford an understanding of the various conditions which have to be met are included. The general scheme of relays is described, and the causes of flashovers and their times of occurrence are tabulated, together with the percentages which cause interruptions to service. Whether or not interruption is caused is found to depend, among other things, upon the load being carried at the time. With load below 150,000 kw., there are no interruptions unless relays are inoperative. A number of typical records of short circuits are shown and analyzed. It is shown that large amounts of power are consumed in short circuits, but that this is dependent upon the ground resistance. Practically all short circuits are single-phase to ground. The advantage of low-reactance machines is discussed and the various factors that prevent loss of synchronism pointed out. The records show that there is but little if any tendency for synchronous machines at either end of the line to fall out of step among themselves as a group, but that the sending end under certain conditions will get out of step with the receiving end."
"The advance planning activities of a large telephone company is a field of endeavor that perhaps is not very generally understood by those not intimately associated with the communication art. This may be due to many circumstances, the more probable of which is the fact that telephone service has grown to be one of the necessities of social and business life and, from casual observation, seems to differ but little in individual locations. In the small or large community, similar subscribers apparatus is in general use; wires and poles of like character are in evidence and service is apparently rendered in much the same manner. These observations are basically correct. In structural design and operating practises, however, widely different problems are encountered in the rendering of service in separate communities."
"Mountain climbers who attain freezing heights suffer from cold in spite of their physical exertions but aviators who soar to even bitterer temperatures can keep warm in spite of the fact that they must sit motionless as their planes climb to “the roof of the sky.” They keep warm electrically. The latest development in flying equipment is a set of clothing warmed by wire, even to the glass of a flier's goggles."
"This paper was prepared by a subcommittee of the Committee on Electrical Insulation of the Division of Engineering and Industrial Research of the National Research Council. The general purpose of the committee is to foster research on dielectrics and its initial activities have been confined to the preparation of a series of summaries of the published literature on this subject. The subcommittee which presents this paper is the second one to report, it having been preceded by a paper on dielectric absorption and theories of dielectric behavior, by Chairman J. B. Whitehead, which was published by the A. I. E. E. in 1926. The second paper under the auspices of the committee was inspired by the first one, and was an original exposition of Clerk Maxwell's theory of the double layer dielectric, by Professor Murnaghan, published by the A. I. E. E. in 1927. The present paper, like the first, is a summary of existing literature which, it is hoped, will afford a starting point for original research in many directions. It is hoped that the discussion by the Institute will bring out obscure phenomena and new interpretations of the data reviewed. The report starts with a consideration of the general subject of instability in electrical circuits, and an explanation of instability in the case of dielectrics, in terms of a stress and strain characteristic. This is followed by a discussion of distribution of stress and strain in non-uniform fields, and their relation to breakdown. The reversible and non-reversible phenomena of dielectric failure are considered, the former in relation to the electron theory and the latter in relation to the pyroelectric theory, and the bearing of both upon the time — voltage relation is indicated. The latter part of the full report is devoted to the relation of breakdown voltage to various factors, such as insulation thickness, insulation area, the electrode form, heterogeneity, temperature, rate of voltage, variation, pressure, etc. Final conclusions are given in the full report which summarize in a few words the present state of the art, as it may be judged from published data."
"To the Editor: Referring to the discussion of Dr. Murnaghan's paper on Maxwell's theory of the layer dielectric, published in the July issue of the JOURNAL of the A. I. E. E., p. 727, I am sending you a few comments on the same subject, with which we have been concerned for sometime."
"A description is given of an apparatus for the automatic determination of the dielectric strength of thin sheet insulation. The machine makes about 1000 breakdown tests in a day. Almost no attention is required, thus reducing the human element to a minimum. The results of over 100,000 punctures are given. An investigation of the effect of temperature indicates that none of these punctures occurred according to the thermal theories of breakdown. Tests to determine the effect of electrode area are also described. It is shown that statistical theory can be applied to the results with some success. The standard deviation of the breakdown values is a measure of the inherent variability of the material, and thus gives promise of value in the specification of insulation."
"Passengers flying across the continent or even around the world in airplanes may very well call up their friends at home by the combined use of radio and telephone. This possibility was well demonstrated at the recent war show in Chicago where radio conversations of various sorts were maintained between several planes, land stations and the telephone system in Chicago."
"The increasing complexity of modern transmission networks presents many difficult problems in connection with the design and application of protective relays."
"To the Board of Directors: In accordance with requirements of the by-laws, there is submitted herewith a review of the development during the past year of the art of lighting with electricity. This review constitutes the annual report of your Committee on Production and Application of Light. It has been prepared through the cooperation of members of the Committee."
"To the Board of Directors: The general views of the chairman of the committee will be found in the editorial entitled Relationship between Physics and Electrical Engineering, in the J OURNAL for February, 1927. This editorial may be considered as part of this report. During the year, some of the members of the committee volunteered to watch new developments in the following topics: Ferro-magnetism, theory of mapping of fields, short-time phenomena, high-voltage research, insulation and dielectrics (solid, liquid, and gaseous), arcs and discharges, short-wave propagation, atomic physics, spectroscopy, quantum theory, and surges. This list will give an idea of the scope of interest in electrophysics. Several manuscripts submitted to the Institute were read and passed upon by the committee."
"To the Board of Directors: The applications of electricity in the mining industry, especially in coal mining, have shown a marked increase during the past year, due principally to the fact that its use is an important element in the solution of the problem of high mining costs. These adverse economic conditions have forcibly brought to the attention of mine managers the necessity of replacing expensive labor by electrically operated mechanical devices."
"To the Board of Directors: Three branches of the field of electrical measurements in which the demands of industry have stimulated new, improved and more precise methods and means of measurement are: — electric power and energy, dielectrics, and high frequency. The first two items were covered in the report of the committee for 1925–26 and in the symposium on dielectric measurements conducted at the Niagara Falls Regional Meeting of the Northeastern District, May, 1926."
"A new and improved tool generally means new or improved accomplishments. Great improvements in sound recording and reproduction have been made possible by the thermionic amplifier. Electrical reproduction may be considered in three steps, (1) generation of a voltage by the vibrations of the needle, (2) amplification, (3) conversion of electrical power into sound. The first of these steps involves some interesting mechanical and electrical problems, and it is with these that the paper primarily deals, the problems of amplification and loud speaker design having been discussed in earlier publications to which references are given. Several types of phonograph “pick up” are possible; electrostatic, piezoelectric, electromagnetic, and variable resistance or microphonic. The electromagnetic principle is used in the device now manufactured. Since the moving armature cannot be actually at the needle tip, the little generator must function by transmitting the vibrations from the needle tip through a more or less flexible structure to the armature. Vibrations are inevitably transmitted, but when the requirements of freedom from appreciable distortion and maximum possible output are added, extreme care in design becomes necessary. An analysis is given of the mechanical behavior of the present model of reproducer."
"To the Board of Directors: The Standards Committee has continued actively the revision of the Standards of the Institute, both as to form and content. In 1922, the Institute published its Standards in a volume of nearly 200 pages, divided into 26 chapters, with an appendix in which are reprinted the Rules for Electrical Machinery of the International Electrotechnical Commission. Soon after this edition was issued the Standards Committee was reorganized by the Board, and a revision was begun which involved the splitting up into separate sections the existing Standards, rearranging the material, and bringing together into separate complete compilations, the definitions, service conditions, rating, heating, dielectric tests, markings and other requirements applicable to any particular type of apparatus or brand of the art."
"Coupling to high-voltage transmission lines for purposes of carrier-current communication was first universally made by means of coupling wires. This type of coupling usually required high-power transmitting equipment, but when coupling capacitors were substituted it was possible to reduce the carrier input to the line without affecting the received signal strength. The paper gives an approximate method for determining the effectiveness of coupling wires and coupling capacitors. No attempt is made at refinements in calculations as it is only desired to show the effect of stray capacity. Curves show the change in practise from coupling wires to coupling capacitors. It is estimated that by the early part of 1928 the total number of the two types of coupling will be equal. The electrical characteristics for different types of insulation used in coupling capacitors, based on test results is given. Some important points of design for the new cable capacitor are included."
"To the Board of Directors: The committee in making its report this year does so with a feeling that its efforts to raise the standards of marine electrical installations and increase the utilization of this most efficient, flexible, and safe form of energy, appear more assured than at any time before."
"Certain principles are presented for solving non-harmonic a-c. problems. Graphical methods are already well known for solving practically any problem, when currents and electromotive forces are sinusoidal, by vector diagrams in a plane. In certain special cases such diagrams give correct results when currents and electromotive forces are non-sinusoidal, but in general diagrams in more than two dimensions are necessary. A wide range of material, some of which has been published before in scattered places, is brought into relation; no single general solution seems attainable. A Bibliography with 61 references is appended."
"This paper presents some of the results of a series of high-voltage tests on cables and insulators, extending over a period of eight years, to determine the electrical characteristics of the insulation. Leakage current, insulation resistance, and watt input tests were made with direct and alternating current. Paper-insulated and rubber-insulated cables and a 27,000-volt porcelain insulator were tested. From these tests several conclusions were drawn, the principal ones being as follows: 1. Insulation resistance of paper and rubber-insulated power cables increases to a maximum with increasing applied d-c. voltage, the characteristic depending upon the temperature. 2. It is necessary to use shields as well as guards in making tests to determine the electrical characteristics of cable insulation under d-c. voltage stresses above the ionization point. 3. The watt input to the insulation of a paper cable under d-c. stress, at a given temperature, depends upon the character of the voltage wave; the greater the ripple, the greater the watt input. 4. It is necessary to use shields as well as guards in making tests on short cable samples to determine the a-c. electrical characteristics, such as dielectric loss of cable insulation under voltage stresses above the ionization point. 5. The ionization point is very variable depending upon the physical circuit, together with the atmospheric conditions, and represents, in reality, local air breakdown. 6. The better (i. e., the more uniform) the dielectric, the greater is the tendency for the material to break down in its entirety rather than at a single point. Practically, of course, no dielectric is perfectly homogeneous, so that failure will be restricted to the weakest spot or spots."
"Sparking voltages and gradients in air between spheres of unequal diameters and between two cylinders placed with their axes perpendicular to each other in space (called cross-cylinders) have been determined. Complete tables giving the coefficients of gradient corresponding to any given spacing and radii, have been tabulated, the formulas used being those of Kirchhoff and Russell. For cross-cylinders, an approximate formula has been developed. In the theoretical discussions, the more definite form of the theory of ionization by collision as given by Bergen Davis has been extended to the spheregap and a relation has been deduced to account for the variation of the sparking gradient as investigated in the first part of this work, which is in substantial agreement with those found by F. W. Peek, A. Russell and others."
"This paper discusses, from a non-mathematical standpoint, certain factors which should enter into the design of an overhead contact system on an electrified railroad. It emphasizes desirable features, mechanical and structural, and indicates practical limits which conditions will permit in the attainment of these features. Tests made by the Pennsylvania Railroad with slow-motion photography are outlined. These tests were made to determine operating conditions of the catenary construction with two different types of supporting attachments, over both curved and tangent track. Deflections and oscillations were studied in order to bring out the most productive sources for future study and improvement of the design in respect both to elimination of wear and to maintenance of uniformly good current collecting qualities."
"The relay problems of an electric power system are most important, and are very vital to the successful operation of the system. More and more consideration is being given to the relay engineers' point of view with resultant improvement in system operation. Several large, successful companies undertake no project having any bearing on the primary electric system without due regard to the relay engineer's recommendation. With the transmission networks becoming more and more interconnected, and with the injection into the problem the interconnections with other power companies, the absolute necessity of isolating a faulty line, (or a faulty piece of equipment), is essential and is becoming more clearly recognized by all large companies. Since this article was written, other 66-kv., ground relay tests have been made with a resistor grounded neutral and with a solidly grounded neutral, and some very interesting and unexpected points were discovered. It is hoped these points will be brought out during the discussion of this paper"
"The United States Geological Survey in its annual statement as to the center of industry shows that the new point is about fifty miles southwest of Chicago. This center of industry, it is stated, has moved in the eighteen year period from 1908 to 1926 approximately seventy-five miles in a southwesterly direction."
"A brief review is given of the literature on conduction through insulators. Every dielectric has a definite resistivity when the potential gradient is below a certain value, different for each substance. If the potential gradient is continually increased, a point is reached where an increase in voltage does not affect the current. This is called the saturation current. With still greater potential gradients, a point is reached where the current increases rapidly and breakdown soon results. All these phenomena of conduction are explainable as the movement of ions in an electric field. The resistivity of a dielectric depends on the number of ions in unit volume, on the charge on each ion, and on their mobility (velocity under unit potential gradient). The saturation current depends on the charge on each ion and on their rate of production. Breakdown is preceded by ionization by collision, which is determined by the ionization potential of the substance and the length of path of an ion. The number of ions normally present in a dielectric depends not only upon the rate of producing them but also upon their rate of recombination. The rate of recombination is a constant of the material, but the rate of production may depend either upon outside agencies or inside forces. In gases, ions are generally produced by outside agencies, the important ones being rays from radioactive materials, X-rays and ultra X-rays. In liquids and solids, ions may be produced not only by the external agencies of rays and radiation, but also by the inside forces of solution and dissociation. The ionic theory of conduction has been sufficiently developed to explain all the observed facts in the case of gases. Modifications and extensions are necessary, however, before all the experimental data on solids and liquids can be interpreted."
"B. Blasser: A limited study on the application of mercury arc rectifiers to a city street railway system brought out some interesting comparisons that might be of interest."
"E. B. Wagner: Mr. North mentions that the main substation was enclosed in a brick building in order to protect the equipment from dust. I would like to ask how he was able to keep the dust out of the building."
"L. T. Wilson: It has been mentioned that this meter takes from 2 to 8 milliamperes, and that a displacement current flows between the shields of the same order of magnitude. It was not specified in that statement that, that charging current is of the same order of magnitude as this 2 to 8 milliamperes only at 1,000,000 cycles. Of course, at any frequency lower than that, the charging current is proportionately lower, and down at very low frequencies, it is entirely negligible."
"V. Karapetoff: Professor Dwight's equation (5) may be deduced directly from the general formula (2) for the mechanical force. Let the return conductor be a concentric cylinder of radius b. Let the virtual deformation of the given conductor consist of an axial lengthening of the portion of radius a2 by an infinitesimal amount d s and of a corresponding shortening of the portion of radius a1 by the same amount ds. The tapered portion is supposed to move bodily without a change in shape."
"Chester Lichtenberg: Since its development in 1914 the automatic station has been a very interesting topic to electrical engineers. The development has been very rapid. For example, in the United States today more than one-third of the entire switchboard output of the large manufacturing companies is automatic switchboard equipment for power stations and substations. Our records indicate that over 2,000,000 kw. of rotating apparatus are under automatic control and over 6,000,000 kw. of feeders and transformers are in automatic station service."
"V. M. Montsinger: I was very much interested in Mr. Gould's paper because it gives a possible explanation of the same kind of phenomena that I observed on some single-phase transformers a few years ago."
"Aram Boyajian: For the benefit of those who are not intimately familiar with transformer problems I wish to say that the reduction of core loss and exciting current to a sine-wave basis is not quibbling over laboratory precision. The reduction of the core loss to a sine-wave basis involves wave-shape errors of from zero to 20 per cent, and the reduction of exciting current to a sine-wave basis involves errors of from zero to 50 per cent. The leading manufacturers of the country use methods to reduce core loss to sine-wave basis, and possibly some of them use methods to reduce the exciting current also to sine-wave basis. These methods greatly lessen but do not completely eliminate the possible errors mentioned, due to the fact that the bases of all the methods used in the past have been imperfect. Mr. Camilli therefore has undertaken to develop methods which will have a better basis and will be entirely reliable. I think he has succeeded surpassingly well."
"Joseph Slepian: There is hardly a scientist on whose work I lean more than Professor Compton. I remember as one of the best of Professor Compton's papers the one on the theory of the arc which he gave in the Physical Review in 1923, in which he so ably defended the thermionic theory which he has discussed tonight. Today, however, Professor Compton apparently feels that perhaps this theory may not always hold after all."
"Alfred Herz: I want to mention a few things about the klydonograph. This device makes use of photographic emulsion coated on a base of celluloid or glass. The essential thing is the sensitivity of this emulsion."
"W. W. Shaver: Mr. Moon stated that his results indicated that the breakdown was not a pyroelectric effect. I should like to mention some experiments which we have been carrying out on Pyrex and porcelain insulators which seem to warrant a similar conclusion."
"F. M. Clark: I think if you read this paper carefully you will come to the conclusion that there is a considerable difference of opinion among “reliable experimenters.” That is due no doubt, to a fact which heretofore has been greatly ignored. Not until recently have the chemist and physicist come into agreement with regard to the structure of the atom. The chemist has had his own chemical atom, and the physicist his own physical atom. The real reason has been that the physicist has entirely neglected the chemist's problems and the chemist has been guilty of neglecting the problems confronting the physicist."
"F. A. Brownell: I think it would be in order, at this time, to call the attention of the Instruments and Measurements Committee to the fact that we have no standard calibration curve for spheregaps at voltages over 500 kv."
"F. M. Clark: With regard to Dr. Curtis' paper, I do want to emphasize the type of conduction which he calls colloidal conduction. I think that this is a type which we will have to recognize and consider in more detail than we have. When you consider that almost all of our insulations are colloidal in nature if not true colloids, you can see the significance of that type of conduction. I recognize that colloidal conduction is similar in many respects to electrolytic conduction. However, it owes its origin to larger charged masses and may occur in mediums where electrolytic conduction would be least expected."
"Chester Lichtenberg: One thing that is disturbing to the designers, as well as the operators, is the high cost of the equipment required for carrier-current supervisory control. At present the cost of wires is large, however, the terminal apparatus required for radio supervisory equipment is also large. It is therefore necessary to make a quite careful analysis of the situation before a reasonable conclusion can be drawn as to whether or not it is cheaper to use supervisory equipment employing wires or supervisory equipment using carrier current. From some studies which we have made, the wires seem more economical for distances up to about 25 mi., beyond that distance however, the carrier-current design becomes feasible."
"W. C. Peterman: I should like to point out that a type of rotary repeater differing from those shown in Figs. 1, 2 and 3 in Mr. Connery's paper is shown in Fig. 2 of the paper by Herbert Angel1."
"A. F. Connery: The method of cable signaling, suggested by Gulstad in 1898 and which is used in the operation of the printing telegraph system described by Mr. Angel, appears to be the only method available if the 5-unit 2-element code is to attempt to compete with the widely used 3-element unequal letter cable code on long cables. The application of this signaling method to the old-style duplex cables which span the Atlantic is no mean achievement, and many difficult and trying problems, of which little mention is made in the paper, must have been solved."
"L. C. Peterson (communicated after adjournment): In connection with some tests planned to determine the inductive coupling at the higher frequencies between different wires of a system of parallel wires, a theoretical study was made in June and July of 1926, based on a paper by Professor Pleijel entitled “Current and Voltage Relations in a System of Parallel Conductors” and given as reference No. 18 in Mr. Levin's paper. In his paper, Professor Pleijel gives a set of linear equations connecting the terminal currents and voltages of a multi-wire line. In the underlying transmission theory, the ground is assumed to have infinite conductivity. Mr. Levin states that he has demonstrated the validity of Pleijel's equations, as regards their form, when the finite conductivity of the ground is taken into account. Such a demonstration is quite unnecessary; indeed, the fact that the equations maintain the same form irrespective of any assumption regarding the ground conductivity, or any approximation introduced in the transmission theory, follows immediately from the general properties of an n-terminal network. The coefficients in Pleijel's equations (given as eq. (20) in Levin's paper) uniquely specify the system and hold for all possible terminal connections of the line wares. They offer, therefore, a means of determining the induction in systems of parallel conductors. In a limited number of cases, these coefficients may be calculated from the dimensions of the system. However, calculations being rather laborious, it is advantageous to resort to the experimental determinations of the coefficients."
"A German concern has recently stated that it has entered into an agreement with an American company covering patents relating to the processing of oil from coal. At the same time, the Minerals Division of the Department of Commerce made public a report from its Trade Commissioner at Berlin to the effect that imports of petroleum products into Germany are being received at a record rate."
"A wide range of very timely subjects is on the technical program for the Regional Meeting which will be held in Chicago, November 28, 29 and 30."
"From a professional standpoint, the Sixteenth Annual Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute held at Del Monte, California, September 13–16, was highly successful. The social features also were very enjoyable to the 254 members and guests present."
"An Engineering Yardstick Applied to Residence Lighting Equipment, by Ward Harrison, Director of Illuminating Engineering, National Lamp Works. Joint meetirfg with Illuminating Engineering Society at Nela School of Lighting, Nela Park, Cleveland. October 27."
"Beginning with the October 14th meeting, which has scheduled for its program the subject of Radio Broadcasting, with the eminent speakers, M. H. Aylesworth, president of the National Broadcasting Company and Admiral W. H. G. Bullard, Chairman of the Federal Radio Corporation, the forthcoming meetings of the New York Section of the A. I. E. E. will be of no small importance and interest to scientific development. On October 17th, there will be a joint meeting with the Institute of Radio Engineers at which Senatore Marconi himself will be the speaker, the subject to be subsequently announced. This will be followed on November 4th by a meeting “predicting the future of New York,” addressed by President Gherardi, on The Probable Growth of New York City, R. H. Shreve, President of the New York"
"The invitation of the United States Government to participate in the International Radio Telegraph Conference has been accepted by 50 of the 57 companies which have been invited. The conference will be held in Washington beginning October 4, according to an announcement issued Sept. 13 from the headquarters of the conference which have been established under the joint auspices of the Departments of State and Commerce. It is planned to bring up to date the international treaty agreement covering the use of radio."
"The meeting of the International Electro technical Commission held at Bellagio, Italy, was opened September 4 by President Guido Semenza, followed by addresses by Prof. L. Lombardi, President of the Italian Committee, the Mayor of Bellagio, and representatives of two Italian ministries. Twenty-one countries were represented by 250 delegates, twenty-one of whom were Americans. There were 13 committees; three, headed by American delegates, on Nomenclature, Rating of Rivers, and Prime Movers. C. H. Sharp, C. E. Skinner and John Murphy (of Canada) were designated chairmen of committee sessions. Experts' p&pers on prime movers and switch rating were presented on Monday, Sept. 5. The Committee on Electric Meters completed its work and recommended the further study of problems relating to meter accuracy, insulation tests, and sizes, but no definite action was taken regarding the matter. The meeting of the Committee on Rating of Electrical Machinery was largely attended but no conclusions were reached. Insulating Oils, Voltages, and International Vocabulary Committees held interesting discussions."
"The International Commission on Illumination met at Bellagio, August 31–September 3. Ten countries were represented by 67 delegates, of which seven were Americans. There were ten sessions, and forty-five papers on the subjects Automobile Headlighting, Factory Lighting, Photometric Methods, and International Definitions. Nine new technical committees were formed including those to discuss Diffusing Glassware, Signal Lenses, Daylight Motion Picture, Street Lighting, and Glare Research. Dr. Hyde, President since 1921, resigned, and C. C. Patterson, Director Research Laboratory at Wembley, England was appointed to succeed him. The next meeting will be held, United States, September 1928."
"Our sister society, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, is arranging for a midwinter cruise in the West Indies, leaving New York on January 25, 1928, on the 28,000-ton steamship Lapland and returning February 19, after visiting Havana, Kingston, the Panama Canal, Curacao, with a side trip to the oil fields of Venezuela, Puerto Cabello, La Guayra, and Bermuda. The cruise is specifically under the auspices of the Petroleum Division, but it may be found possible to offer some A. I. E. E. members opportunity to participate in this delightful 23-day midwinter cruise, (the cost of which will be from $250 up, according to accommodations desired)."
"The twenty-first annual convention of the Illuminating Engineers, to be held in Chicago October 11–14, inclusive, will be replete with features of scientific, commercial and practical interest. John F. Gilchrist, vice-president of the Commonwealth Edison Company, will give the address of welcome and there will be many Institute members represented on the program following. H. H. Higbie, Professor of Electrical Engineering at the University of Michigan, will deliver his president's address upon the morning of the opening day; Mr. Preston S. Millar will report on his committee's work for the year on street lighting and, directed by G. H. Stickney, there will be a symposium on office lighting. Photometry and the photoelectric cell will be ably discussed as will also the lighting of railroad yards, airports and airways. Abundant provision will be made for the entertainment of visiting ladies."
"From October 22 to November 13, a conference on engineering materials will be held in Berlin. The sponsors of this convention are the scientific engineering associations of Germany and the program will include approximately 200 papers delivered b y both scientists and practical engineers. The papers will be given at the Technical University of Charlottenburg, while an exhibit of engineering materials will be arranged in the Neue Ausstellungshalle on the Kaiserdamm. Three distinct groups of engineering materials will be displayed; iron and steel, non-ferrous metals, and electrical insulation. Much of interest, to the electrical profession will be included in the program of this convention."
"The National Safety Council, which held its sixteenth annual convention in Chicago, Sept. 26–30, is a non-profit making, non-partisan organization, whose purpose is the promotion of safety, sanitation and health in the industrial, public and home life of the American people. It is financed by its members, 4368 corporations, companies, partnerships, public officials, educators, organizations and individuals interested in the conservation of life, limb and property. It is the parent body of some sixty affiliated community safety councils scattered throughout the nation. Its officers and 1000 committeemen serve without financial compensation, meeting regularly to determine its policies and program. The organization serves as a national clearing house of accident prevention information, maintaining its headquarters at 108 E. Ohio St., Chicago, where a staff of more than 78 employees devote all of their time to safety work."
"The Portland Cement Association and the American Gear Manufacturers Association have become members of the American Engineering Standards Committee, with direct representation on the Main and Executive Committees. F. W. Kelley. (Associate of the Institute since 1905), President of the North American Cement Association, represents the Association as a member of the A. E. S. C. Executive Committee."
"The word “research” is in danger of becoming in invidious term. At one extreme, it is being cheapened, like the word “engineer,” by use as an artificial stimulant of unworthy causes — a too-common abuse nowadays in the exploitation of highsounding words by self-seeking interests. At the other extreme, there is danger of what might be called research snobbery — a pose assumed by pedantic formalists who assert that only their kind of research is “pure.” No less an authority than the president of Columbia University has stated that the word “research” is being used to cover a multitude of sins. He referred to members of a university who go through pretentious motions and glean little pepperkernels of insignificant fact in order to make much to-do over trivialities."
"The American Society for Testing Materials has recently issued a special reprint pamphlet covering methods for testing insulating materials. This pamphlet covers all such methods prepared by Committee D-9, as well as the annual report of the committee presented at the June meeting of the Society, French Lick, Ind. In addition to the Standards and Tentative Standards now in force, there is included as an appendix to the report a description of the latest method of making the life test of transformer oils. The pamphlet contains 130 pages, and is now available for distribution at the following rates: 1 to 9 copies, 80 cents; 10 to 24 copies, 70 cents; 25 copies and over, 65 cents. Address American Society for Testing Materials, 1315 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pa."
"The Overhead systems reference book of 1927 has been published by the National Electric Light Association and was prepared by a special committee of the Overhead Systems Committee of the National Engineering Section of that association. This work is successor to the handbook on overhead line construction which was published in 1914. As stated in the preface, the purpose of this reference book is to present in one volume a description of the apparatus, material, methods and principles involved in overhead line construction and the tabulation of necessary formulas for the electric and mechanical solution of various transmission and distribution problems."
"The United States Forest Service has in press a bulletin entitled Forests and Water in the Light of Scientific Investigation, which contains “a summary and review of the world's scientific literature on the subject of the influence of forests on climate, streamflow, floods, and erosion,” and “a very extensive bibliography on these subjects.” The contents of this bulletin, which is approximately 70 pages in length, were published several years ago as part of the Final Report of the National Waterways Commission, and are now being made available in convenient form as a result of the demand for information on flood control problems."
"Maurice Holland, Director of the Division of Engineering and Industrial Research of the National Research Council, has just brought out a small edition de luxe giving in condense form a report of his investigation of the industrial situation in Japan while attending the Pan Pacific Science Congress as a representative of the United States Government, the National Research Council, and other national bodies. The book is of pocket size, and contains 52 pages of printed matter descriptive of pearl culture, Japanese fisheries, Japanese industrial research, civil aviation in Japan, the silk industry, general impressions and conclusions and an industrial map of Japan in interesting though concise form. Mr. Holland's work is sponsored by the Japan Society as well as the Research Council. The book is available through the publishers, the Federal Printing Company, New York, N. Y."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"W. E. North is now with the Volunteer Portland Cement Co. in the capacity of mechanical and electrical engineer for the building of its new Cement Plant at Knoxville, Tenn."
"Frederick Ludwig Baer, who joined the Institute in 1907, died in Chicago the evening of September 6th, as the result of an automobile accident. He was born in Wilkes Barre, Pa., in 1880, and was a graduate of Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind., after a preparatory course at Mt. St. Mary's College, Emmittsburg, Md. For many years he has been with the Automatic Electric Company as assistant chief engineer. Just prior to joining the Institute he was appointed superintendent in charge of equipment for all exchanges in and near San Francisco operated by the Home Telephone Company. In all of his endeavors, he was counted an extremely worthy worker. At the time of his death he was chief engineer of the International Telephone Sales and Engineering Corp., Chicago."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute section meetings."
"The first afternoon of the Pacific Coast Convention, held at Del Monte, Calif., September 13–16, was devoted to student activities in accordance with plans made previously by Professor R. W. Sorensen, Chairman of the Committee on Student Activities of the Pacific District, and the Convention Committee."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Board of Examiners of the Institute considers the qualifications of applicants for election to membership and for transfer to higher grades of membership, and reports its recommendations to the Board of Directors for action. One meeting is held every month and occasionally extra meetings of the entire Board or of subcommittees are necessary. The growth in membership of the Institute has naturally increased the work of the Board of Examiners; accordingly its personnel was increased at the beginning of this year to twelve, all Fellows of the Institute. The recent amendment to the Constitution, increasing the dues of Associates after the first six years of membership to the same amount as is paid by Members, has also had its effect in increasing the number of transfers to the higher grades."
"Peter Cooper Hewitt invented the mercury arc rectifier in 1902, so that it can hardly be considered a new development. More than a half dozen different manufacturers are producing mercury arc rectifiers of various types and sizes and have been producing such rectifiers for years, so that commercial development is not new, yet technical literature is astonishingly bare of treatments going to the fundamentals of rectifier behavior. Many articles appear, describing this and that installation. Descriptions of structural details are not wanting. For specific glass rectifiers, performance curves are available which give the relation between current and voltage at which failures occur under standard conditions. Even this information does not seem to be published for the iron tank rectifiers. An engineer wishing to familiarize himself with the quantitative relations underlying rectifier design has thus practically nothing to go on. We cannot assume from this that manufacturers the world over have proceeded blindly for nearly a quarter of a century, but if they do know what happens in a mercury arc rectifier they at least have not told the public. The purpose of this paper is to present such information as is at present available to the author. This information does not include the knowledge of very important groups in the industry and would even seem to indicate that a very large aggregate capacity of rectifiers has been designed along incorrect lines. This offering is then made in a spirit of humility in the hope that those who know will point out wherein it is in error."
"The last 50 years is the epoch of electric lighting, says Electrical World editorially, for this kind of lighting began only half a century ago. It is commonplace to remark that the cost of light today from tungstenfilament lamps is only a small portion of the cost of the same quantity of light fifty years ago; but how many grasp the enormous difference? If the unskilled laborer of a half century ago had used as much light as is now used daily in the average home in this country, he would have had to work two and one-half hours daily to pay his gas-lighting bill alone, as compared with approximately ten minutes daily for the average unskilled laborer to pay his present electric lighting bill."
"The object of this paper is to give briefly the procedure followed by the Illinois Central engineers in the layout, design and erection of the catenary system. Brief reference also will be made to the principal items of material entering into the construction and to methods of maintenance."
"To the Editor: It was with great interest that I read the article on The Circle Diagram of a Transmission Network, by F. E. Terman, in the December, 1927 issue of your JOURNAL. In the year 1923, I made an extensive study regarding transmission phenomena. The investigation was utilized by the “Elektrizitatsaktiengesellschaft formerly W. Lahmeyer & Co.”, Frankfort-on-the-Main, Germany, for the purpose of planning and calculating the first German 220-kv. transmission (approximately 300 miles). In the meantime the line has been completed, parts of which are now provisionally operating at 110 kv."
"This paper briefly discusses the advantages and limitations of the inductor and reaction types of alternators when designed for generating alternating currents of very high frequency. A new design for a reaction type alternator is described in which some of the limitations of the usual type of reaction alternator have been overcome in a way which enables such alternators to be designed for a higher frequency and greater output. The complete specification of a 10-kw., 20,000-cycle alternator of the new type are given and its operating characteristics, as determined by test, shown by a series of curves. A method is developed by means of which the various losses in the alternator may be separated and the complete operating characteristics of the alternator under any condition of load predetermined from the no-load tests."
"There is described in this paper a system of continuous signals operating within the cab of a railway locomotive. This system was developed in an effort to provide more reliable and safer signals than the common semaphore or light signals. The particular type of system is called the three-speed, continuous-control signal system. It has been adopted quite extensively by the Atchinson, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway System."
"The people of every city make sudden heavy demands upon their electric light company. The approach of storms and resultant daytime gloom is one of the commonest causes of this. To meet such demands and to guard against power failures many companies maintain immense storage batteries to handle the load during the few minutes that are sometimes, required to bring the generating machinery up to speed. These batteries usually are the largest to be found anywhere — some weighing over three tons each. A few electric light plants keep as much as 500 tons of batteries always standing ready for service."
"In presenting the annual report of the Committee on Power Transmission and Distribution it has seemed best to largely confine its scope to a discussion of the progress that has been made in those branches of the art with which the Committee has been actively concerned during the year. Several of the members have collaborated in the preparation of the report and it represents the consensus of opinion of the Committee as a whole."
"The Department of Commerce has made public a statement on an investigation of the magnetic and mechanical properties of iron and steel. The full text of the statement follows:"
"Data from a large number of tests on several types of oil circuit breakers are given in this paper. The tests were made on breakers with the following ratings. (a) 150 kv., 1,500,000 kv-a.; (b) 35 kv., 250,000 kv-a., (c) 7000 volts, 75,000 kv-a.; (d) 132 kv., 1,250,000 kv-a., and (e) 132 kv., 750,000 kv-a. These tests were made on power systems having sufficient connected capacity to make the tests conclusive. Complete data are tabulated and oscillograms are shown. Some valuable conclusions resulted from the tests."
"This paper tells of (1) conditions which govern the design of a breaker of a given interrupting capacity, (2) the standardization that has been accomplished in rating breakers, and (3) trends in the design of breakers constructed to meet operating requirements."
"To the Board of Directors: During the past Institute year, notable progress has been made in many branches of the art of electrical communication. The committee has selected for its report the items which were considered to be of most general interest and these are described under the various subheadings below."
"Electric power companies have grown to such a size in the United States that there are now eighteen whose annual output of energy exceeds one billion kilowatthours annually. At the head of the list is the Buffalo, Niagara and Eastern Power Corporation, whose output in 1926 was 4,464,000,000 kw-hrs. This immense volume of power was generated principally by the falling water of Niagara Falls. The Commonwealth Edison Co. of Chicago is second and the Edison United and allied companies of New York City third. The Southern California Edison Co. is fourth and the Pacific Gas & Electric Co. fifth. There are no less than 126 systems in the United States, each of which is generating more than 100 million kilowatthours a year."
"B. G. Jamieson: This discussion was organized for the purpose of presenting this voltage question in such a broad light that it may arouse a unity of purpose and a spirit of compromise so that following this presentation there may be substantial progress towards either a settlement of the question or a definite statement that perhaps we are too far apart ever to settle it."
"Vladimir Karapetoff: The phenomenon of absorption in a composite dielectric, each layer of which separately shows no absorption, has been graphically explained by Grünewald2. Referring to the accompanying sketch, consider the simplest case of two slabs A B C D and C D E F, of equal thickness and of equal insulation resistance to direct current. Let the material I be of much lower permittivity than the material I I. Let A B, C D, E F, represent very thin layers of metal foil, to insure the positions of equipotential surfaces. Assume the metal sheet A B grounded at G and a d-c. potential of value E F suddenly applied to the surface E F. The instantaneous distribution of potential may then be represented by the broken line H K F. The permittivity of the layer I being lower, a major portion, S K, of the total voltage is applied across it, and a minor portion, K C, across I I. The slopes of the two lines are inversely as the permittivities, or directly as the elastivities of the two materials."
"H. V. Putman: I have been intensely interested in Professor Douglas' paper because in my own work I use Blondel's two-reaction theory exclusively for calculating the performance of salient-pole machines."
"Caesar Antoniono: There is no question in my mind that the success of the automatic substation depends entirely upon inspection and maintenance. We were pioneers in this field, having installed the first automatic substation in the latter part of 1917 and to date, we have operated 17 complete automatic substations and two that are under way, in varying sizes of 300, 500, 1000 and 1500 kw. including one mercury arc rectifier."
"W. G. Taylor: Both cable-tool and rotary drilling impose extremely heavy duty on the power equipment, as is indicated to some extent by the graphic charts submitted in Mr. Murphy's paper. It would be even more interesting if he had shown some records of the work required to handle and set the casing which lines the well. In fact, it is this work which really determines the size of motor necessary for cable-tool drilling. The work is fully as heavy as handling drill pipe in rotary drilling."
"The vertical focusing adjustment for headlamps using two-filament lamps is not only unnecessary but so greatly complicates the correct focusing and aiming of the headlight beam that few persons can make the proper adjustment, asserted A. W. Devine of the Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles, at the summer meeting of the Society of Automotive Engineers at French Lick, Ind., May 1927. He advocated dispensing with the requirement for double focusing in state motor vehicle regulations and declared that improvement in headlighting will be retarded if state laws or regulations require the vertical focusing adjustment in addition to the horizontal adjustment."
"The Electrician (London, January 21, 1927) describes the machine for facilitating the rating of lamps photo-electrically which was shown recently by the Research Laboratories of the G. E. Co. Ltd., at the annual exhibition of the Physical and Optical Society."
"Contrast in lighting deserves special consideration because effective lighting is possible only with a proper distribution of light. Unless high levels of illumination are used with consideration of contrast, best practical results are not necessarily insured. In the experimental work described, three effects of contrast are considered; these will be dealt with briefly here."
"As we go to press, the Summer Convention of the A. I. E. E. is being held at Detroit, Michigan, June 20–24, and from the early reports, an unusually large attendance is predicted."
"A very fine program is being arranged for the Pacific Coast Convention which will be held in Del Monte, Calif., September 13–16. The technical sessions will deal particularly with subjects of current interest in the West. Among the subjects are 220-kv. transmission, circuit breakers, oscillographs, spheregap voltmeters, communication and lightning protection for oil tanks. The titles of the papers are given in the accompanying list of technical papers."
"Twenty-two conferences on Chemistry in World Affairs will be held at the new Institute of Chemistry of the American Chemical Society, opening its sessions July 4th at the Pennsylvania State College. These conferences will be similar to those held last year at the Institute of Politics, Wllliamstown, Mass., and will be followed by discussion presented by men prominent in education and the chemical industry. Mr. Harrison E. Howe, member of the National Research Council, treasurer of the American Engineering Council and editor of the Chemical Societies official journal will preside at the conference of July 5. The program will extend through July 29, and is inclusive of many subjects of engineering interest and high research values."
"That the work of the New York Electrical Society in popularizing electrical science in N ew York City is to be continued and extended for another year was decided at the Annual Meeting of the Society, held Saturday, June 4, 1927, in the auditorium of the New York Telephone Building at 140 West Street, New York City. Reviewing the work of the Society during the past year, President Sergius P. Grace, said that total attendance at the meetings had aggregated approximately 9000 persons, probably the largest attendance of any scientific organization in the United States. President Grace said, that inquiries received and answered continually by the Society's officers, indicate that the Society is a recognized source of information upon electrical science."
"A report on Standards for Measurement of Test Voltage in Dielectric Tests which has been for some time in course of preparation b y a subcommittee of the A. I. E. E. Standards Committee, is now available. This report is No. 4 in the series of A. E. A. E. Standards and was prepared by a representative Working Committee under the chairmanship of F. W. Peek. The report is now issued in the belief that it has reached a stage where it should be circulated widely in order to obtain all possible criticisms and suggestions before final adoption."
"The 20th Annual Conference on Weights and Measures convened at Washington on May 27th. Resolutions adopted recommended that those weighing and measuring devices conforming to specifications and tolerances accepted by the Conference and endorsed by the Bureau of Standards be adopted by the state and approved for commercial use by every state in the Union. During the conference it was brought out that most of the nations of Europe exercise strict federal control over weights and measures apart from the control of local jurisdictions. An official of the Bureau of Standards announced that in response to continuing demand for information regarding all phases of the subject the Bureau is about to issue a handbook on “Weights and Measures Administration.”"
"The 1927 edition of Recommended Practise for Electrical Installations on Shipboard (Marine Rules) is now available, being issued as Section 45 of the A. I. E. E. Standards and of the same size and general form as followed with the other Standards. It is a paper covered pamphlet of 84 pages and is available at a cost price of $1.50 subject to the usual 50 per cent discount for members of the A. I. E. E. Apply to A. I. E. E., 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Pamphlet No. 9, A. I. E. E. STANDARDS for Induction Motors and Induction Machines in General has just been issued in revised form. The revisions included in this new edition concern the parts of the Standard dealing with rating, particularly rating of general purpose motors, and are the results of the work of the Sectional Committee on Rating of Electrical Machinery. This Committee under the chairmanship of Dr. D. C. Jackson has been at work for some time on the question of rating and the decision arrived at, which the unanimous vote of the committee shows is satisfactory to all, will now be applied also to Standards 5 and 7, “Direct-Current Rotating Machines, Generators and Motors” and “Alternators, Synchronous Motors and Synchronous Machines in General” respectively. Copies of the revised Pamphlet No. 9, June 1927, can be obtained by writing A. I. E. E. Headquarters, 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y. Cost 40 cents to non-members of A. I. E. E. Fifty per cent discount allowed members."
"Five scientists and executives of the General Electric Co. received honorary degrees from colleges at commencements in June. Owen D. Young, chairman of the board, received the degree of doctor of commercial science from New York University; Gerard Swope, president, doctor of laws at Colgate; Dr. W. R. Whitney, director of the research laboratory, doctor of science at University of Michigan; Dr. W. D. Coolidge, assistant director of the research laboratory, doctor of science at Union College and Lehigh University; and Dr. Irving Langmuir, assistant director of the research laboratory, doctor of science at Kenyon College."
"The new building for the Daniel Guggenheim School of Aeronautics at New York University, University Heights, New York, was formally opened on the 4th of June, when Mr. Guggenheim formally presented it to Chancellor Brown. Harry Guggenheim, son of the donor, pressed an electric button setting the great wind tunnel in operation. The new building is 120 by 50 ft. with a first story projection for the wind tunnel. Its equipment is complete for instruction, test and research work, with wind-tunnel of double return type, propeller-testing equipment, an apparatus for testing airscrews, a structural laboratory, power plant laboratory, a full-flight and instrument laboratory, airship laboratory for gas diffusion and a model ship for the construction of wind-tunnel models. Doctor Elmer A. Sperry, Fellow of the Institute, was one of three representatives from the Founder Societies, Professor Alexander Klemin and Mr. Calvin W. Rice, Secretary of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers also being present."
"The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Aeronautics, William P. MacCracken, Jr., in a statement, June 1, announced that the Department of Commerce is preparing to take over the Transcontinental airway, now largely used by air mail pilots. It is planned to furnish weather reports and signals to both air mail and other commercial operators along the route."
"The $50,000,000 building program for Federal construction in the District of Columbia will start late in July when the Department of Agriculture Building will be begun."
"Measures which will be introduced in the forthcoming Congress by Representative McLeod of Detroit will propose the creation of a $100,000,000 loan fund to encourage the organization of airplane lines for carrying Mail passengers and freight."
"To further the carrying out of recommendations made by the Committee on Patent Office Procedure, the Commissioner and his staff have instituted periodic informational meetings of substantially the entire examining corps and other technical personnel of the Patent Office."
"At the Annual Meeting of the Western Society of Engineers held June 1, the Washington Award for the year 1927 was presented to Orville Wright, “for fundamental scientific research and resultant successful airplane flight.”"
"At its regular quarterly meeting held in New York City on June 15th, the Electrical Safety Conference, reviewed its activities and decided to dissolve. This decision was based upon the fact that the mission of the Conference seemed accomplished, and under present conditions, with the availability of other standardsmaking factors, its work was deemed no longer necessary."
"The University of Louvain invited Engineering Foundation to participate in the celebration of the 500th anniversary of the founding of the University. The Foundation has responded on behalf of its Founder Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers, and has designated as its delegate Dr. Edward Dean Adams, John Fritz Medalist, Honorary Member and former Vice-Chairman of the Foundation Board. Dr. Adams has generously accepted this mission and attended the ceremonies in Louvain on June 28 and 29."
"As announced in the May Journal, the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education has undertaken an interesting experiment in the training of college teachers of engineering through the establishment of summer schools to be conducted by it at Cornell University and the University of Wisconsin during July, 1927."
"George H. Kohl, who has been hydraulic engineer for the Spanish River Pulp and Paper Mills, Ltd., Sault Ste. Marie, Ont., Canada, has now started his own consulting offices there."
"Charles Frederick Rand, former president of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, chairman of the Engineering Foundation, member of the National Research Council and many other representative bodies, died at his home in Merrywood, Hutton Park, West Orange, N. J., June 21, 1927. Born at Canaan, Me., October 21, 1856, Mr. Rand in 1876 at the age of 20 entered the service of a railroad corporation in Milwaukee. He remained with them for ten years, chiefly in the capacity of a financial officer. For many years prior to his death he was identified with the construction of new railways and the opening and operation of iron mines in Cuba. In 1921 he was elected an honorary member of the Iron and Steel Institute of Great Britain, an honor held by only five other men, among them the Price of Wales. Mr. Rand was then chairman of the Board of Award for the John Fritz Medal established for achievement in applied science, and Sir Robert Hadfield was the one upon whom it was bestowed that year. In 1913, King Alfonso XIII of Spain decorated Mr. Rand with the Grand Cross of Knight Commander of the Order of Isabella Catolica and in 1922 the French Government again decorated him with the Croix de Chevelier de la Legion d'Honneur for distinguished services during the World War. Mr. Rand did much to encourage the founding of the Engineering Societies Building as the home of the leading national engineering bodies as well as an engineering center for all parts of the world. With the gift of Mr. Ambrose Swasey, and the inception of the Engineering Foundation, Mr. Rand was chosen chairman of the Engineering Foundation Board. Mr. Rand was vice-president of the Welfare Federation of the Oranges, member of the American Society for Testing-Materials, the Engineers Club, the Railroad Club of New York, Downtown Club, Union League, Indian House, Metropolitan Club and the Essex Country Club. He was also former chairman of the American Red Cross Board of Directors of the Oranges, his civic life being as actively filled with accomplishment as was his professional."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute section meetings."
"A joint meeting of the Marquette University, Armour Institute of Technology, Lewis Institute, and School of Engineering of Milwaukee Branches, sponsored by the Milwaukee Section, was held at Marquette University in Milwaukee on May 20 and 21, 1927. A number of members of the Chicago and Milwaukee Sections were present, and the total registration was 108."
"On May 25, 1927, the Denver Section and the University of Colorado Branch participated in the sixth Annual Engineers' Day, held at the University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, which was sponsored by the Colorado Engineering Council. The program was as follows:"
"A conference on Student Activities was held on Friday evening, May 27, during the Regional Meeting of District No. 1, May 25–28, at Pittsfield, Mass. Of the ten Branches in the District, six were represented by their Counselors and Chairmen and each of three others was represented by either the Counselor or the Chairman."
"A Student Convention was held in conjunction with the Regional Meeting of District No. 1 at Pittsfield, Mass., May 25–28, 1927. The following papers were presented at the student technical session on Friday afternoon, May 27:"
"A joint buffet lunch-smoker meeting was held on April 22, 1927, by the Columbus Section and the Ohio State University Branch at the Chittenden Hotel in Columbus."
"The University of North Carolina Branches of the A. I. E. E. and A. S. C. E. held an Open House on May 4, 1927, for the purpose of acquainting students, faculty, and any others interested with the work of the School of Engineering."
"The Committee on Award of Institute Prizes has awarded the National Best Branch Paper Prize for 1926 to Mr. R. A. Schaefer, a member of the Marquette University Branch, for a paper entitled “A Study of Transverse Armature Reaction in Synchronous Machines by Means of a Second Machine With an Adjustable Stator,” which he presented before that Branch on December 30, 1926."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A report on voltage standardization, by B. G. Jamieson, was presented at the Bethlehem Regional Meeting, based upon the symposium on this subject given at the 1927 Winter Convention of the Institute."
"It has generally been assumed that the total losses of a constant-current regulating transformer remain practically constant for all loads. Performance and test calculations have accordingly heretofore been made according to well known conventional methods from the segregated losses determined from test or design data, assuming total losses constant. Extensive tests described in the paper show, however, that these losses are not necessarily even approximately constant, but for some transformers vary greatly with the load, the total losses at light loads greatly exceeding those at full load. The tests further show that the increased losses produce increased temperature rises at light loads, which may be sufficiently excessive to endanger the apparatus, although the same transformer may be able to carry full load with normal temperature rise. The increased total losses and temperature rises at light loads are shown to be due largely to the increase of stray load losses with decrease of load, caused mainly by the leakage flux inducing excessive circulating currents in the laminations and structural parts of the transformer, such as the cage. Exploring coils and iron filings were used to investigate the amount and direction of the leakage flux. Performance specifications should be based on the actual total losses for all loads and not on the conventional assumption of constant total losses, as has been done in the past. It is pointed out that the characteristics described depend somewhat on the design, other features besides liberality in the use of materials being of importance. Consequently, measures should be taken by designers to correct these undesirable characteristics as much as possible. Users not only desire the most highly efficient apparatus consistent with cost, but must have apparatus of the highest reliability under all possible conditions, which cannot be expected of constant-current transformers endangered by excessive temperatures at light loads. The characteristics discussed are, therefore, not only of theoretical interest, but also of considerable practical interest to both designer and user."
"The function of a resistance modulator is to produce in an electric circuit a current which is a copy of an exciting impulse such as speech or light waves. The principal example is the carbon granule telephone transmitter. It is desirable that the electric current be an exact copy of the exciting impulse. There is inherent in such a device however, a distorting effect, for the current copy is produced by reason of Ohm's law and thus is an inverse function of the modulated resistance and not a true copy of it. The amount of distortion arising from this effect depends upon the electrical constants of the modulator and its associated circuit. The study quantitatively analyzes this distorting effect by two methods in a circuit containing a modulator, a battery and a resistance for single frequency modulation and by one of the methods for double frequency modulation. An analysis is also developed for a special test circuit. The study shows that the relation between modulators and circuits is a design problem."
"There are three methods of obtaining the flux distribution in a magnetic field. First: By test. Templates or models can be made of the field to be explored and the flux distribution can be obtained by test as described in a companion paper “Graphical Determination of Magnetic Fields — Comparison of Calculations and Tests” by Messrs. E. E. Johnson and C. H. Green. Second: By mathematical analysis. This method is accurate and consistent results can be obtained. If the problem is very complicated, however, the mathematical solution is very laborious and sometimes impossible. Third: By the graphical method. This method is quite accurate and it can be used for design calculations. It is comparatively easy and it is the quickest method of the three. The graphical method of plotting magnetic fields used in this paper is described in a companion paper, “Graphical Determination of Magnetic Fields — Theoretical Considerations” by Messrs. A. R. Stevenson, Jr. and R. H. Park. This paper shows how the graphical flux plots can be used very successfully in design calculations. In fact, the performance characteristic of a salient-pole synchronous machine can not be predetermined accurately without the use of flux distribution coefficients."
"Between fifteen and twenty per cent of all industrial accidents in the United States are caused by inadequate lighting, which means that poor light in factories is costing the country hundreds of thousands of accidents and tens of millions of dollars in losses every year, declares Arthur E. Carruthers, Editor of Safety Engineering."
"In outlining the history of voltage standardization, it is observed that there has been separate standardization of voltages of various types of apparatus, rather than standardization of a complete operating system. The results of a questionnaire answered by 22 operating companies are analyzed and the conclusion is drawn that the use of the old standard transformer voltages involved, in many cases, over-exciting the transformers or generators in order to maintain satisfactory voltage at the consumers' terminals. The reason is that the existing transformer voltage standards do not compensate for the line drop in transmission lines and feeders. The voltage standards of the International Electrotechnical Commission are set forth, indicating a partial agreement as to maximum system voltages with the proposed standards, although arrived at by a different method. The I. E. C. standardization, however, is not so complete as the proposed system. In describing the proposed standards, certain basic principles are laid down as the conditions which must be fulfilled. The proposed system of voltage standards starts with already standardized utilization voltages at the low end of the scale and suggests tranformer voltage ratings and ratios which will allow proper voltage to be supplied to the consumers without over-exciting any of the transformers or generators in the system, and ties in the transformer and apparatus voltages with system voltages, based on the A. I. E. E. definition of rated circuit voltages. The proposed standards thus cover the whole field of voltages of a-c. apparatus of all kinds and harmonize them with system voltages in such a way that all reasonable operating requirements may be met. The salient features of the proposed standardization are as follows: The system voltage is the same as the highest rated voltage of transformers supplying the system; it thus corresponds to the A. I.E. E. rated circuit voltage and fixes test voltage on all apparatus used on the system. Step-down transformer secondary voltages from 115 volts up to 69,000 volts will be multiples of 11.5, excepting transformers supplying 2400-volt systems, which will be rated 2400 volts. Thus, typical step-down transformers will deliver 460 volts 6,900 volts 23,000 volts 69,000 volts For higher voltages, step-down transformers will have secondary voltages in multiples of 11, thus: 88,000 volts 110,000 volts 132,000 volts 154,000 volts complying with well established practise. In order to enable the step-down transformers to deliver these voltages, their primaries will be rated in multiples of 11, thus: 6,600, 22,000, etc., up to 66,000 and above that multiples of 10 1/2, thus: 105,000 126,000 210,000, etc. Step-up transformers, excepting the 2400-volt class, will have their high-tension windings rated in multiples of 11 1/2 up to 69,000, and multiples of 11 above that, whereas their low-tension winding will be rated 5 per cent lower than the system voltages or generator voltages. Thus, step-up and step-down transformers will not be interchangeable, but each will have the proper ratio for its purpose. To make them interchangeable' would require 25 per cent range, which would involve too great an expense if applied to all transformers. Transformers of 25 per cent range may be required in many cases where power flows in either direction but such transformers should be of special design and this extra cost should not involve the whole line of transformers. The tabulation of voltages gives also the present manufacturers, standards for apparatus voltages, such as oil circuit breakers, disconnecting switches, etc. These standards for 88,000 volts and above correspond to the system, voltages of multiples of 11. Below 88,000 volts they are somewhat higher than the recognized system voltages given in the tabulation in order to meet existing conditions in these lower voltages. The tabulation also gives motor voltages in multiples of 11, while the generator voltages, in order to allow for line drop, are multiples of 12 up to 2400 volts, and multiples of 11 1/2 from 6900 volts up. The last section of the paper gives a discussion of the economic advantages of voltage standardization, indicates the magnitude of the investments involved, and gives a general idea of the savings which may be made by standardization."
"Interest in the mercury arc rectifier has grown considerably in America in the last few months. The apparent advantages of the rectifier in higher capacities and for higher voltages have attracted the attention of operators. It should therefore be of interest to present some information on the characteristics of rectifiers, and some comparisons with rotating converters as to operation, cost, floor space, weight, etc."
"How rubber articles are produced electrically by a method like metal plating was described recently at a meeting of the Detroit section of the Society of Automotive Engineers by the inventor of the process, Dr. S. E. Sheppard, of the Eastman Kodak Co. The commercial advantages of the process and the superiority of the products made by it were told at the same meeting by J. W. Schade, director of laboratories of the B. F. Goodrich Co."
"A new method of reduction of armature copper losses is described, which consists in the inversion of the conductors of a multi-turn barrel type coil at one or more places in the end portions of the coil. Previous writers have described methods of transposing the conductors in the slot and of carrying insulated strands through successive positions in successive coils, but the new method now described presents distinct points of difference in theory and in construction from any of these earlier methods. The theory of the new form of transposition is briefly described, complete formulas are presented for the most useful cases, and illustrations of its use are given."
"Since its recent development, the klydonograph has been used to investigate surge conditions on a number of transmission systems. Quantitative data, which show the characteristics of the actual surges present on transmission systems, are presented. In addition, these data are discussed in relation to various existing theories and practises regarding the production and the elimination of transient high voltages. The correctness of some of these ideas and the fallacy of others are indicated. The paper is subdivided, according to the nature of individual investigations, as follows: I. Open-wire Systems. II. Cable Systems. III. Lightning Arresters."
"Rural electrification has developed steadily in Sweden since 1912. The country has no important or extensive deposits of coal or fuel oil, and consequently is entirely dependent on imports for its supply of these commodities. When, at the outbreak of the World War, it became increasingly difficult to import them, the question of making greater use of large available water-power resources naturally became of prime importance."
"THE subject, telegraph traffic engineering, covers a field so wide that to compress it within the limits of a single paper necessitates an arbitrary limitation of the points to be discussed. For this reason there is here presented an outline of only the following four points: 1. Wire layout. 2. Traffic routing. 3. Office layout. 4. Operator assignment."
"At a meeting of the American Chemical Society at Richmond, Va., last month, the production of pure vanadium was announced by J. W. Marden and M. N. Rich, research scientists of the Westinghouse Lamp Company."
"In the annual report published in the October 1926 issue of the Institute's JOURNAL our readers were informed that the mentioned Diesel generator of a capacity of 3175 kv-a. at 25 cycles and 125 rev. per. min. was, at present, the largest machine of its kind driven by a Diesel motor. Messrs. Siemens-Schuckert of Berlin-Siemensstadt now inform us that they have constructed much larger generators to be driven by Diesel engines. The largest Diesel set was put into service last year by the Hamburgische Elektrizitatswerke A.-G., of Neuhof, near Hamburg (Germany). A 15,000-h. p., 9-cylinder, Diesel motor, constructed by Messrs. Blohm & Voss, of Hamburg, in cooperation with the Maschinenfabrik Augsburg-Nurnberg, drives the largest three-phase generator of this kind. This was supplied by Messrs. Siemens-Schuckert and has a rated output of 13,000 kv-a. at 94 rev. per min. and 6300 volts. The set may be brought from a cold state to its full rated capacity within eight minutes. Full information regarding it is contained in the German Siemens-Zeitschrift, issue of January 1927 and in No. 3, (March issue) of the British Siemens-Schuckert Review. It will also appear later on in the Spanish Revista Siemens"
"The first part of this paper is devoted to the purpose of presenting a clear conception of the internal voltages, currents, heating, and armature reactions as related to the physical structure of the simplest converter and as related to the passage of time. These may be styled “space” and “time” relations. “Space” relations are indicated by means of diagrams representing as nearly as possible the physical structure of the converter. “Time” relations are shown by conventional curves and vectors. The accepted mathematical expressions for voltage ratios, heating effect of currents, and armature reaction imply that certain facts be disregarded. This is done in order to simplify their development. The mathematical treatment developed in the appendixes to this paper includes most of these disregarded factors and makes it possible to evaluate them. This treatment is based on the method of “harmonic analysis” by which any regularly repeating function may be represented."
"THE following article consists of a resume of a series of fifteen papers dealing with measurements at high frequencies. The study of this subject, the preparation of these papers and their presentation will constitute the major activity of the Committee on Instruments and Measurements during the year 1926–27. The papers are to be presented at the Regional Meeting in Pittsfield, Mass., May 25, 1927. Complete copies may be obtained from Institute headquarters. The papers are as follows:"
"Scientists, inventors and engineers are working in an age when practical development follows rapidly the discovery of a new truth in science. In the eyes of electrical explorers, the electron is the energy mite which enfolds an ever-enlarging vista, and radio and television are merely indicative of what will soon come. In a recent address, Dr. E. F. Alexanderson expressed his conviction that the power industry cannot long remain untouched by the new discoveries in electricity. It is waiting until the new knowledge has been widened and matured so that it can be put to use on a larger scale, and this is the real significance of the excursion of so many electrical men into radio and television. Electric power as it is known so far is only an introduction, and the finished chapters are still to be written as the evolution in the art progresses."
"E. B. Shand: From the standpoint of practical design calculations, I believe that the formulas in the complex forms given are not generally applicable, due to the fact that the accuracy of design calculations is limited by a number of factors not considered in the paper. An instance of this may be found in equation (20) for voltage ratio. This expression may be simplified very greatly by introducing coefficients obtained directly from the converter field form without going through the process of actual harmonic analysis, which have a greater degree of accuracy than those of the calculated field form."
"G. H. Rockwood, Jr.: In order to compute the losses in these transpositions which Mr. Summers has described, it is necessary to determine the percentage of slots in the winding having a given value of the angle θ between current in the top and bottom coil sides. Necessity for visualizing the winding may be done away with and the computation simplified by the following procedure:"
"D. C. Prince: The first question that came into my mind was, what is the real measure of these reactances? The reasoning that I went through is something like this: if we have a certain small variable current that is produced by a ripple voltage in the case of a rectifier or by whatever the alternating impulse is, and then we have a steady direct current that must be carried, the function of the reactor is to keep the ratio of the incremental current, the variable current to the direct current, as small as possible."
"D. W. Roper: Mr. Simons has introduced several new points in cable-joint design for which he should receive due credit. We have used a few of these joints in Chicago. In making up the joints, the cable splicers and the engineers who were supervising the construction, had occasion to suggest one comparatively minor change which they thought would improve the joint. The change was not acted upon or received with any great degree of enthusiasm and we did not urge it. However, in giving some further thought to the subject and in looking over some of the patents that have been issued on joints to others, we discovered that the suggestion which we had made for a change in this particular joint was covered by a patent issued to another individual, and controlled by another manufacturer."
"O. R. Schurig: The problem attacked by Mr. Miner, i. e., that of oil breakdown at large spacings of from 1 in. to 15 in. and more, and when subjected to sustained voltage stresses, is of real importance to engineers because (1) the gaps in high-voltage apparatus are commonly of the order of 1 in. or more and (2) because the voltage stresses for a good part of the time are of a sustained nature. The designers of oil-immersed transformers and circuit breakers must therefore take into account the behavior of oils between widely spaced gaps and under sustained voltage stresses. Mr. Miner's data represent an advance of knowledge in this field."
"Joseph Slepian: One thing that Mr. Willis brings out and which is worth emphasizing is that the beginning of corona is not the point where ionization by collision begins. This is important because very frequently in the past it has been assumed that the beginning of ionization by collision is also the beginning of breakdown or of corona under various conditions. Mr. Willis has shown by his experiments here that the corona comes at a higher gradient than that at which appreciable ionization by collision occurs and that corona sets in when a sufficiently great cumulative reaction takes place between the ionization produced by collisions of the negative ions and that produced by collisions of the positive ions. Hence the gradient at which the corona begins is not a constant of the gas but also depends upon the geometrical configuration of the electrodes; that is, it depends also upon the radius of the wire and the distance to the other electrode."
"G. W. Janson: Schemes such as that shown in Fig. 14 have been tried at various times by communication engineers, in their efforts to increase the output of telegraph circuits. The possibilities of these arrangements have, however, been generally limited by factors other than the effectiveness of available rectifying means. However, there are probably many other valuable uses for a rectifying element having the excellent characteristics described in this paper."
"J. H. Bell: There is one question I would like to ask Mr. Mason. On page three this statement occurs: “an experienced automatic operator works at between 55 and 60 words per minute while the average output per Morse operator is between 12 and 15 words per minute.”"
"P. A. Lindemann: Unfortunately Mr. Thurston's paper does not give speed-time curves of the high-speed geared a-c. elevator. I should like to know the details of the stopping period of a fully loaded elevator having a car speed of 700 ft. per min. and the brake applied without appreciable slow down by the motor."
"W. B. Kouwenhoven: The method described by Mr. Sparkes is very ingenious. The arrangement that he has provided, for changing the speed of his flashing lamp so as to bring it into synchronism with the marks on the meter disk, makes it possible to use the device to check over a wide range of speed. The method should give accurate results, as the torque of the wattmeter measuring the a-c. load, is balanced by the torque of a d-c. voltmeter element supplied with current from a magneto driven from the flasher shaft. Care must be taken to see, that the armature reaction of the magneto is negligible, otherwise errors may be introduced."
"W. H. Pratt: I think it should be emphasized that the present paper, except so far as it describes a particular mechanism for effecting compensations, is a restatement of material most effectively presented by Kinnard and Faus at the midwinter convention two years ago. Previous to that time, meters having much smaller Group II errors than those used for a background of this paper were used in predominant numbers, and since then the whole output of one of the largest producers of meters has been substantially without Group I errors. So that, presented at this time, the background of this paper must not be looked upon as a picture of general present-day practise."
"Great Britain has made a most valuable contribution to the data relative to the value of good lighting in industry through an investigation (reported jointly by the Industrial Fatigue Research Board and the Illumination Research Committee) on The Relation Between Illumination and Efficiency in Fine Work (Type setting by hand)∗ The report is issued by the Medical Research Council and Department of Scientific and Industrial Research."
"The Lamp Committee of the National Electric Light Association published during March 1927, a report emphasizing the fact that more than eighteen and a half million large carbon lamps were sold in this country last year, and that where these lamps are used, electrical energy is converted into light under a handicap of a degree of inefficiency which is detrimental to the public interest and to the lighting service."
"An enthusiastic and well-attended regional meeting of the middle eastern district of the A. I. E. E. was held at Bethlehem, Pa., April 21–23, 1927. The technical sessions developed much animated discussion, the dinner dance called out the full attendance at the meeting — about 400 members and guests — and the lecture by Dr. Berg was replete with interesting reminiscences of Heaviside and Steinmetz. As the meeting closed just as the JOURNAL went to press only a brief account is possible."
"A charming location, enjoyable recreation, technical papers of unusual interest and the artificial production of a most spectacular electrical phenomenon are the outstanding features planned for the 4th Annual Meeting of the Northeastern District to be held at the Maplewood Hotel, Pittsfield, Mass., on May 25–28."
"Inspection tour to the Avon Station of the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company. In the evening, the Annual Meeting and a banquet will be held. May 14."
"A remarkably well balanced list of papers, and a full program of attractive recreational features, will mark the coming Summer Convention of the Institute which will be held in Detroit in the Book-Cadillac Hotel, June 20–24. For the technical sessions, a large number of papers on practical operating subjects been chosen, in addition to some of the latest scientific and theoretical contributions. These papers include such subjects as power stations, transmission-line operation, relays, control circuits, cable joints, communication, dielectrics, corona, rectifiers, electrical units and electric traction. Practically all fields of electrical engineering will be covered in the reports of the Technical Committees, which are scheduled for presentation on Wednesday morning, June 22."
"A steamer trip from Detroit to Mackinac Island and Georgian Bay is being planned for Institute members and their guests, to start on the day after the coming Summer Convention. This will be a three-day trip, starting from Detroit, Saturday, June 25, and returning to Detroit, Tuesday, June 28."
"The Annual Business Meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held on Friday, May 20, 1927, at 8:15 p. m. (daylight saving time) in the Engineering Auditorium, 33 West 39th Street, New York, New York. At this meeting the reports of the Committee of Tellers on the annual election of Institute officers will be presented, as well as the report of the Board of Directors for the year ending April 30,1927."
"The fifty-seventh Annual Convention of the American Society of Civil Engineers will be held at Denver, Colo., July 13 to 16. Able addresses, well-planned technical sessions, pleasure trips, and social events make prospects. for a most successful and enjoyable time appear replete. The trip to the convention, in itself, will include a comprehensive tour of the Rocky Mountain region, and its good fellowship and high standards will no doubt make it possible to realize the fondest ambitions of all attending. Further details may be obtained from the headquarters of the Society, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y."
"In weighing the manifold attractions of White Sulphur Springs, which is the location that has been chosen by The American Society of Mechanical Engineers for its Spring Meeting, the Society is anxious that the technical excellence of the program shall not be overlooked. The number of authorities scheduled to speak upon important subjects is worthy of more than passing attention. Something of the scope of the meeting is indicated by the following list of subjects to be presented and discussed:"
"Members and guests of the Engineering and Chemical Societies in the New York City District are invited to participate in a special trip to West Point arranged under the auspices of the National Defense Division of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. The Alexander Hamilton of the Hudson River Day Line has been chartered for the occasion and will make the trip to West Point on Thursday, May 12, 1927. The number of passengers will be limited to one-third capacity of the boat, in order to insure the comfort of all. On reaching West Point the party becomes the guests of Brigadier-General Merch B. Stewart, Superintendent. A close survey of the Academy will be permitted. There will be special drills, followed by an evening parade in full-dress uniform. Luncheon and dinner are included in the charge for the trip, which is $5.00 per person. Ladies are cordially invited to participate. Boat will leave West 42nd Street Pier at 10 a. m. and West 129th St. Pier at 10:20 a. m. Return trip will leave West Point at 7 p. m. arriving New York at 10 p. m. Send your reservations and make out checks to I. L. Martin, 29 West 39th St., New York City. (A. S. M. E. headquarters.)"
"Water as a source of power and a source of destruction, will figure largely in the deliberations of the 15 Annual Meeting of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, to be held in Washington May 2–5."
"The fourth session of the International Electrical High-voltage conference will be held at Paris, June 23 to July 2. Honorary presidents are M. Blondel (France), C. O. Mailloux, past-president of the Institute (United States), G. Semenza (Italy), Honorary vice-presidents, M. Borquist (Sweden), S. Del Buono (Italy), President, M. Legouez (France); General Secretary, M. J. Tribot Laspiere (France). The United States delegation, organized by the U. S. National Committee of the International' Electrotechnical Commission has the following working committee: C. O. Mailloux, chairman; Herbert W. Young, vice-chairman (Chicago); Frederic Attwood, (Paris); A. O. Austin (Barberton, Ohio); J. T. Barron (Newark, N. J.); H. W Fuller (Chicago) and F. W. Peek (Pittsfield, Mass.). The first session will be on Production and Transformation of Energy; the second session on Construction of Lines and the third session on the Investigation of Central Stations and Networks."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, April 8, 1927."
"A revision of Section 13, A. I. E. E. Standards for Transformers, Induction Regulators and Reactors has been proposed by the A. I. E. E. Technical Committee on Electrical Machinery. The revision consists in a proposed addition of two new rules Nos. 13–161 “Grounding Transformers” and 13–254 “Grounding Transformers.” The text of the revisions is quoted herewith. Any suggestions or criticisms relative to this matter or bearing on any other part of Section 13 should be addressed to H. E. Farrer, Secretary, A. I. E. E. Standards Committee, 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"The Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education announces that a summer school for engineering teachers will be established and the first sessions held in the summer of 1927. The Carnegie Corporation of New York has appropriated funds to operate the school for one year."
"A plan framed by the nation's engineers to stabilize employment and industry through the advance planning of Federal projects involving public roads, rivers and harbors, and public buildings was presented by Lawrence W. Wallace of Washington, executive secretary of the American Engineering Council to the semi-annual meeting of the Academy of Political Science, held at the Hotel Astor, Friday, April 8. Huge sums can be saved, Mr. Wallace declared, by the establishment of a Department of Public Works and Domain to replace the present Department of the Interior, the structure of which he called outworn."
"The hearings held by the Federal Radio Commission were largely attended by representatives of broadcasting stations, manufacturing companies, engineers and others. As a result of this hearing, the Commission has already been able to partially develop a program which it is contemplated will prove beneficial to the greatest number of those concerned."
"The United States Bureau of Standards is starting to renew interchanges with other governments with respect to the standard cells in an effort to maintain uniformity in electromotive standards throughout the world."
"An Australian Mission has arrived in the United States to make a two-months' tour of the industrial cities of the east and middle west, according to information obtained at the Department of State on April 11."
"Under the instructions of President Coolidge and at the request of Senator McNary, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, a study of the legal problem of the relation of Federal and State ownership rights at Muscle Shoals is being made b y the Department of Justice. The opinion of the Department is desired preparatory to bringing the subject before Congress early in the next session. This action is taking a view in the state of Alabama contention that it is the owner of all rights subject only to Federal use for navigation and national defense. The contentions of the state are set forth in a letter from the Governor of Alabama in which it is announced that the matter will be submitted to the summer session of the Alabama Legislature for the purpose of safeguarding the State's interest."
"In 1919, National Research Council, University of Illinois, and Engineering Foundation joined forces for a new attack upon the old problem commonly known as Fatigue of Metals. The Council appointed an advisory committee; the University provided the director, staff and facilities for the research, and the Foundation supplied a substantial fund to pay for special equipment. A number of industries cooperated by contributing funds, materials and information. While this investigation has been progressing, several others have been conducted by Government bureaus and by industries, with little, if any, wasteful duplication. Large additions have been made to knowledge of this subject, but the reports were scattered in numerous scientific and engineering publications, and some results have not been printed. There were requests, therefore, to have the information collected, condensed and put into a form convenient for use by engineers."
"Utility experts are to lecture at the University of Michigan in another course of instruction for men in the public utility industry which will begin this Spring at the University with classes in electric metering by Professor Benjamin F. Bailey, Department of Electrical Engineering. Laboratory conferences and laboratory tests are included."
"A description of the California ninety-mile welded pipe line will be given b y Prof. L. T. Jones of the University of California at a meeting of the American Welding Society in the Engineering Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., at 8:00 p. m., Tuesday, May 17, 1927. Some interesting facts developed in the construction of this line and while articles have appeared before descriptive of the work, all the facts have never been brought out. As this is a matter of wide interest to engineers, the American Welding Society extends a cordial invitation to all members of the A. I. E. E. and any others interested to be present."
"CHARLES F. GRAY, who has been carrying on a consulting engineering practise at Miami, Fla., has removed his activities to Winnipeg, Canada."
"Le Roy Clark, president and director of the Safety Cable Company and a prominent figure in the wire and cable industry for many years, died suddenly April 18 at Falmouth, Mass. His entire business career had been with the Safety Cable Company and it, predecessor, the Safety Insulated Wire & Cable Company, which he joined as an electrician a year prior to his graduation from college. Subsequently he became electrical engineer for the company, and upon its reorganization in 1902 he was made vice-president. Four years later he was promoted to the presidency."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute section meetings."
"A Conference on Student Activities of the Middle Eastern District, No. 2, A. I. E. E., was held at Bethlehem, Pa., on Saturday, April 23rd, in connection with the Regional Meeting of that District held April 20–23."
"The second annual Student Convention of the New York Section was held on Friday, April 8, 1927 in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Authorization was granted by the Board of Directors on February 10, 1927, for the establishment of a Student Branch of the Institute at Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. An organization meeting was held on March 3, 1927 and the following officers were elected: Chairman, Oren Long; Vice-Chairman, O. T. Colclough; Secretary-Treasurer, W. C. Earnhardt. Plans have been made for several activities, including an Electrical Show."
"The Lewis Institute Branches of the A. I. E. E. and the Western Society of Engineers will hold an Engineering Exposition at Lewis Institute, Madison and Robey Streets, Chicago, on May 18,19 and 20."
"The University of Southern California Branch participated in an Engineering Show which was held in the electrical engineering laboratory on March 18, 1927. Some of the electrical exhibits were radio, artificial lightning and an oscillograph. There were also exhibits in chemical engineering, physics, petroleum, and geology."
"The Executive Committee and the Committee on Student Activities of District No. 9 held a joint meeting at Portland, Oregon, on February 18, 1927. It was attended by Section and Branch officers and Branch Counselors; all Sections and Branches in the District were represented. The purpose of holding such a joint Conference was to secure the greatest possible cooperation between the Sections and Branches. Vice-President Schoolfield presided."
"An abridgment of a paper for which the University of Pennsylvania Branch was awarded the cup offered by The Drexel Institute for the best paper presented at the Student Convention held at that institution on March 21, 1927."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers, The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y. — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1786, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 16th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The second report of the Board of Investigation and Coordination of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering education, issued in June, is based upon the results of a general investigation “directed to a study of the objects of engineering education and the fitness of the present-day curricula,” which has been conducted by the Society during the past three and one-half years. It deals with the following two distinct but related issues: “I. Engineering education — A Unified vs. a Divided Process.”"
"This paper outlines work done in connection with planning a protection scheme for the oil storage tank farms of the General Petroleum Corporation of California. The work shows that the average annual number of storms at a given location is a constant. The dielectric property of oil has no influence in causing lightning or inducing it to strike oil in storage. Tests show that excellent protection can be obtained by towers properly installed, but they do no indicate absolute immunity against hits. The work done also shows that an extensive field program, supplemented by such laboratory work as required for understanding and assisting the field program, should be carried out to extend our knowledge of lightning phenomena and protection."
"This paper, after referring to the results of a previous study of the electric oscillations on the three-phase aerial line obtained by Dr. Bekku, describes the additional work done by the writer concerning the electric oscillations in the double-circuit, three-phase transmission line, and shows that there are three kinds of traveling waves. The nature of these waves, and some of the important results of the induced transients, are described. In the appendixes, it is shown briefly how these results were derived and how to calculate the line constants from the construction data of the lines. A few numerical examples are given."
"This paper discusses the characteristics of equipment which have been found most suitable for use on 220-kv. systems or on extensive lower voltage systems. Consideration is given to general system design, governors of prime movers, generators, excitation the systems, transformers, high-voltage oil circuit breakers, transmission line and the equipment of substations. The result of four years' operation of a 220-kv. system have proven it to be as reliable as a 110-kv. system. The economies of 220-kv. transmission have been realized."
"Although less than 2000 miles of railroad have been electrified in this country the present development of the new way of running trains is affecting a considerable proportion of the nation's train service because it is used mainly on heavily traveled lines such as those of the New York Central, the New York. New Haven and Hartford and the Pennsylvania running in and out of New York City. Ninety per cent of the total railroad traffic of the United States is handled over a bare 10 per cent of the trackage and electricity is making itself felt on this 10 per cent."
"The advantages of electric drive for cement mills are enumerated in this paper and general pointers on installing electrical equipment are given. The electrical installation recently made in a modern cement plant is described."
"The application of electric power in the steel industry introduced many radical changes and improvements in rolling-mill layout and practise. The electric drives, of capacities larger than encountered elsewhere, are usually designed to fit individual cases. Special machines or special combinations of them are frequently used. Several representative cases are outlined, and some methods of solving the encountered problems are analized."
"As a sequel to an earlier investigation and development of a method for the reduction of core-loss measurement to sine-wave basis, this paper describes two methods developed for the reduction of exciting current to sine-wave basis. The first method consists of making two measurements at wave shapes as widely different as possible, setting the voltage in each case by means of the flux voltmeter. The current corresponding to sine-wave voltage is obtained, by extrapolation from the observed values of currents and form factors. Although the method might be considered to some extent empirical, it is found to yield an accuracy within one per cent even under extremely unfavorable conditions. The second method utilizes as before the flux voltmeter for setting the voltage but uses a “crest ammeter” (developed for this purpose) for reading the instantaneous maximum values of the corresponding currents. Measurements are made at 100 per cent, 86.6 per cent and 50 per cent voltages. These data determine the fundamental, third and fifth harmonics of the exciting current corresponding to sine-wave voltage and hence the exciting current itself, because these harmonics are the only important components in determining the effective value of the exciting current. Theory of the crest ammeter is given, and its applicability (in conjunction with the flux voltmeter) to the determination of d-c. saturation curves by means of a-c. tests in magnetic investigations is indicated."
"The general case considered is that of N independent electric circuits placed in a medium of variable permeability and subject to saturation, in parts or as a whole The problem is to determine the component (in a given direction) of the mechanical force acting upon one of the electric circuits, upon a group of circuits, or upon a group of circuits with part of the magnetic medium rigidly attached to them. It is believed that the problem has not been solved in this general form heretofore. Use is made of the expression for the stored electromagnetic energy, W, of the system, assuming all the electric circuits to be originally open and then closed one by one. Such a treatment necessitates a number of partial saturation curves, giving the linkages with each individual electric circuit when some of the remaining circuits are closed and the rest are open. A virtual displacement, δ s, is then given to the part of the system under consideration, keeping either the linkages or the currents constant, and the mechanical force, F, is determined from a comparison of the work done, F. δ s, with the change in the stored energy, δ W. It is shown that the familiar reciprocal relationship for the mutual inductance, M12 = M21, which holds true in a medium without saturation, can be generalized to a more involved integral expression for a saturated medium. In order to connect the general treatment with the simpler cases previously solved in the literature of the subject, some intermediate cases of one and two circuits are considered, especially those of importance in applications. The substance of the general method used was presented before the American Physical Society, at the Philadelphia Meeting, in December, 1926."
"It has taken certain branches of the electrical industry interested in lighting a long time to learn that more and better lighting involves proper shading and diffusing of light. For example, lighting fixtures have been designed and sold without shades. Even some “modern electrical homes” have been opened to the public without demonstrating the desirability of shades on certain brackets and ceiling fixtures. After years of effort on the part of certain exponents of good lighting the electrical industry is beginning to awaken and bestir itself to the commercial possibilities of better lighting. The homes of this country need more light, but this cannot be sold easily and permanently unless the principles of good lighting are used as a vehicle."
"The use of power factor corrective devices on distribution circuits is justified, under certain conditions, by rather substantial savings in investment charges and by a reduction in the power losses of the system. The object of the present paper is to develop a practical working formula for calculating the most economical corrected power factor for a distribution circuit. Most economical conditions are assumed when the total of such annual circuit costs as are directly affected by a change in power factor, is a minimum. The usual methods for computing separately, the saving in I2 R losses and the decrease in investment charges due to power factor improvement, are inadequate. Particularly in the design of new circuits and extensions has the need for a more accurate method for calculating optimum power factor and conductor sizes been expressed.2 Since these equations were originally worked out, two other solutions for the most economical corrected power-factor angle have been published, each having been obtained independently of the other. Menjelou3 obtained his formula in the form: α sin θ = 1 β tan θ in which θ is the power-factor angle and α and β are constants computed from the circuit costs. Stevenson4 obtained a similar expression: sin θ = δ − η tan θ the difference lying in the constants to be evaluated. The equation developed in this paper reduces to the simple form: sin θ = unit cost ratio That is, the sine of the most economical corrected power-factor angle is determined by the ratio of the annual cost of condenser capacity per reactive kilovolt-ampere of correction to the annual cost (fixed charges plus value of losses) per kilovolt-ampere delivered, of that portion of the supply circuit which is directly affected by the change in power factor. When the unit cost ratio is greater than the sine of the original power-factor angle, it is found that no investment in corrective equipment is economically justified. The equation is set up in such a form that solutions are readily obtained for the most economical size of conductor as determined by the Kelvin law, and for the required kilovolt-ampere rating of the transformers and condensers. A method is suggested for including generating station costs with those of the individual circuit under consideration. In evaluating circuit costs, the effects of load factor and the shape of the typical daily load curve upon capital investment and power losses have been worked out after the methods used by Gear and Williams5 and by Reyneau and Seelye6. Equations for evaluating the circuit constants are included in the appendix. Several illustrative examples are worked out."
"This paper presents a simple laboratory method of measuring the mechanical forces exerted on the parts of a complete circuit due to current flowing in the circuit. Tests, using the method, show that the “classic” methods of computing such forces are reliable. Curves are included which show the comparison between the theoretical and measured forces. Tests were made on a rectangular circuit, representing a disconnecting switch, and on a circle of round wire."
"Electrified railroading, the latest phase in the transportation business of the country, gets a thorough checking-up in a report that has just been issued on the first 20 years of electric power on the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railway. That company which now has 145 route miles electrified from New York to New Haven and to Danbury, Conn, and which has the heaviest main line traffic of any electrified railroad of its length in the world, reveals that even though electrification is costly to install, its locomotives never seem to go to the scrap heap. They do an astonishing amount of work year in and year out."
"To the Board of Directors: A meeting was held shortly after the appointment of the present chairman in February, to formulate plans for the committee's activities during the remainder of the administrative year."
"Rotary regenerative repeaters have made multiplex printing telegraphy possible over long distances. This paper gives a brief description of some types of rotary repeaters and then proceeds to describe in more detail a non-rotary regenerative repeater."
"The paper describes experiments in study of the separate influence of residual air and moisture in impregnated paper as used for the insulation of high voltage cables. Some sixty similar samples are prepared, dried, evacuated, and impregnated under the same program, except as regards the pressure of evacuation and impregnation. In groups of three the samples were evacuated at various absolute pressures between 2 mm. and 76 cm. Hg. The samples were brass tubes 2.54 cm. in diameter, 122 cm. long, with 25 layers of wood pulp paper applied in the usual lapping spirals. Each sample was equipped with outside test and guard electrodes. Throughout their entire history, i. e., before and after impregnation observations were made on the samples of their dielectric absorption and their final conductivity. These studies have led to the conclusions as to the influence of moisture. After impregnation, the samples are studied as to power factor and dielectric loss over the range of electric stress 20 to 300 volts per mil, and of temperature 20 deg. cent, to 80 deg. cent. These studies have led, principally, to the conclusions of the influence of residual air. They show clearly the importance of thorough impregnation, and the conditions under which it may be accomplished. The causes of rising power-factor — voltage curves and methods of avoidance are clearly indicated. The principal results and conclusions are given at the end of the paper."
"P. L. Alger: This paper raises questions whose discussion might be carried to great lengths, since the ramifications of the effects of harmonics on various characteristics of the motor are very extensive. I will confine myself, however, to making two comments on this paper and then giving a few things from my own experience."
"D. K. Blake: Mr. Richter's paper does not attempt to take sides. He tried very hard to avoid that. Some years ago, together with others, I made a similar study and obtained similar results, showing that the 115/199-volt system had the lowest cost, the 120/208 next, and then the two-phase system."
"F. E. Snell : Though continued development of the semaphore and light type of signals resulted in the production of a highly efficient unit, it yet has some serious drawbacks as pointed out by Mr. Stevens. These unfavorable conditions, attendant on wayside signals, which could not be remedied by electrical means, naturally resulted in the development of a cab signal. The cab type of signal may also offer a solution to one of the problems with which we are confronted in Cleveland, and which, no doubt, affect other operators of rapid transit lines in metropolitan areas, where a portion of the right-of-way is through the less polite residential sections. I refer to the malicious destruction of signal equipment by trespassers, particularly small boys who throw stones, using the wayside signal light lenses as targets."
"T. E. Shea: This paper offers an opportunity to call attention to certain equivalent networks, due to Dr. O. J. Zobel, which do not seem to have become generally absorbed into the literature to the extent that they deserve."
"B. E. Lenehan: It is not apparent why the capacity of a condenser can be assumed to be constant up to frequencies as high as 6000 kilocycles. Two conductors spaced approximately 10 times their diameter will have an inductive drop at 50 amperes 6000 kc. of about 345 volts per ft. The mutual inductance between the meter and shunt circuit can hardly be disregarded as only 1 per cent coupling would introduce errors of around 50 per cent."
"J. R. Craighead: Will the authors kindly clarify the definition of a crosstalk unit? The definition of a unit as a “relation” is not easy to use for measurement purposes."
"N. E. Bonn: Mr. Hoare's instrument will undoubtedly be found very useful for certain special applications. For general laboratory work and as a detector in ordinary bridge and potentiometer circuits its value is very much limited by the exceptionally high internal impedance. True, it can be made to give a full-scale deflection while drawing only 0.1 microampere from the circuit, but it takes fully 0.3 volt to do so, and such high voltage is not available when one measures temperatures by means of thermocouples or in ordinary Wheatstone bridge and potentiometer circuits."
"K. B. McEachron: It seems to me that the material in this paper will be of considerable value to all of us who are interested in the study of recurrent phenomena of a character that requires a measuring device which takes little or no energy from the circuit."
"N. E. Bonn: The last method described in Mr. Horton's paper and the one which he evidently prefers, involves the use of a sine-wave oscillator of variable frequency. Now a sine-wave oscillator, especially one whose frequency may be varied over a large range without disturbing the wave form, would make a very valuable adjunct to many a laboratory. Will Mr. Horton please state what method he uses to make certain of the purity of the wave form?"
"I. M. Stein: It seems to me that the method and apparatus described accomplish two things. First, the bridge circuit and the type of detector used permit of a great precision of balance; that is, the quantity being measured may be measured precisely enough to give the accuracy desired in locating the open circuit. Then, having a set-up which gives the desired precision, we have two options. One is to chart each long cable by putting “opens” at certain known places and making measurements; the other is to get rid of the non-linear characteristic so that no charting is necessary."
"W. S. Moody: The problem of taking care of mechanical forces in transformers became a really difficult one for the practical designing engineer some fifteen or twenty years ago. Previous to that, the power available in case of a short circuit and the size of transformers were not sufficient to require much more than good judgment on the part of the engineer to provide the necessary mechanical support. But with the increase in size, and more particularly with the increase in the available power, the necessity of accurate calculation of these forces arose. Ever since, therefore, we have welcomed most cordially the assistance of the ablest mathematicians and physicists who have shown interest in this difficult problem."
"W. B. Kouwenhoven: I am very glad that Mr. Kasson has pointed out again the necessity of using shields and guards in making high-voltage measurements on cables. I pointed out at the Mid-Winter Convention of 1926 that unless shields and guards are employed the results may be widely in error."
"W. B. Kouwenhoven: In Mr. Sah's paper I find no reference to the effect of humidity. At the Johns Hopkins University we have been conducting an elaborate research upon the effect of humidity on the corona-forming voltage; this research is being carried out under our direction at the Bureau of Standards at Washington."
"A. Boyajian: Professor Bedell is a pioneer in the theory of alternating currents, and his early book is still a classic on the subject. A few years ago I listened with great fascination to Professor Bedell narrating his early experiences in the fundamental theory of alternating currents. He said in the course of his narrative that when he analyzed the flow of currents in condensers, resistances and inductances due to sine-wave voltage, his mathematical analysis showed him that the current of the condenser should be 90 deg. ahead of the voltage, the current of the inductors 90 deg. behind, and in a resistance in phase with the voltage. Up to that time nobody knew anything about phase relationship and this was very puzzling. It was peculiar how in a condenser you could get current ahead of voltage, like having an effect precede the cause instead of following the cause. They made some tests, plotted oscillograms, verified the mathematical analysis and everybody was happy."
"S. J. Rosch: In considering the total loss in a dielectric, Mr. Malti claims to have been able to separate that particular loss due to hysteresis and he gives an expression Wh = Wd − I2 R. In justification of this expression he states that as the frequency of the test voltage is increased, the loss per cycle decreases until some value of frequency is reached after which the loss per cycle remains a constant."
"All arrangements have been made for the opening of the Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute which will be held in Del Monte, Calif., September 13–16, with headquarters at the Hotel Del Monte."
"A three-day regional meeting is being planned by the Great Lakes District of the Institute, to be held in Chicago, November 28, 29 and 30."
"A meeting of exceptional importance to American engineers and executives has been arranged by the Fuels Division of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, to be held in St. Louis, October 10–13, 1927. The meeting should appeal to any one interested in any phase of the production, transportation or application of fuels. Men of international reputation will present papers on industrial practises, power plants and smoke abatement, as well as on more general subjects. All papers will be preprinted and presented in abstract form, giving plenty time for discussion."
"The Seventy-fourth meeting of the american chemical society will convene at the Hotel Statler, Detroit, Mich., on Sept. 5th, the Council of the organization holding a meeting that afternoon in the Henry II Room. An elaborate program has been planned to extend over a period of five days. A great number of papers will be presented as well as several lectures with lantern slides and numerous inspection trips will be made to points of interest. Informal dances and receptions, group dinners and banquets have been arranged for the evening hours. A large attendance is expected."
"Arrangements have been completed for the Sixteenth annual safety congress of the national safety council which will take place in Chicago, September 26th to 30th. The numerous meetings will be in the Hotel Stevens where there will also be held several entertainments and an interesting Safety Exhibit. The newest equipments for accident, fire and health protection, as well as first aid and sanitary supplies, will be shown at this Exhibit. The railroads have granted reduced rates for people attending the Congress; certificates may be secured from the National Safety Council offices at 108 East Ohio Street, Chicago. All members of the A. I. E. E. are cordially invited to attend the meetings."
"The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute for the adminstrative year beginning August 1, was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Tuesday, August 9, 1927."
"A report on Standard Definitions which has been in preparation for some time by a subcommittee of the A. I. E. E. Standards Committee, is now available. This report is No. 2 in the series of A. I. E. E. Standards and was compiled under the guidance of a representative Working Committee with John B. Taylor as chairman. The report is now issued in the belief that it has reached a stage where it should be circulated widely in order to obtain all possible criticism and suggestions before final adoption."
"The U. S. Trade Commissioner at Toronto has made a report on the development and successful operation of a new oil-electric car recently placed in service by the Canadian National Railways. The car recently ran from Montreal to Toronto in five hours and thirty minutes, two hours and twenty minutes less than the time made by the International Limited, the regular train which has been covering this route."
"Persistent reports in the Capital indicate that every effort will be made to bring about a senatorial investigation of the growth and capitalization of public utility companies as soon as the 70th Congress convenes."
"Seventeen cable and wireless companies have accepted the invitation of the United States to attend the International Radiotelegraphic Conference to be held in Washington, October 4, according to an announcement August 12 by the Department of State."
"The University Subcommittee of the Committee on Intellectual Cooperation of the League of Nations has planned for coordination of university studies and will discuss further details of the plan at its next meeting. Recommendations of the subcommittee, however, have been well formulated."
"The Department of Agriculture recently announced results of a study just completed on an 112-acre farm in Tennessee showing that a relatively small amount of timber has a decided influence in reducing the rate of run-off of rainfall on water sheds."
"The U. S. Bureau of Standards recently reported on the result of warming the intake manifold and water jackets in the speed and acceleration of gasoline engines. The statement follows:"
"Elmer A. Smith, a Member of the Institute since 1924, was recently unanimously elected to life membership in the Academic Latine des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres in Paris, France."
"Dr. Alexander Crombie Humphreys, President of Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, N. J., for twenty-five years and nationally known water-gas engineer, died August 14th of a general breakdown at his home in Morristown, N. J. He was in his seventy-seventh year."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum: temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"On June 26,1899, the Institute accepted the report of its first Committee on Standardization. The original “Rules” may be found in volume sixteen of the TRANSACTIONS, covering but thirteen pages. The original committee consisted of seven members. It was appointed some time after a meeting held in New York on the evening of January 26, 1898, to discuss the standardization of generators, motors and transformers."
"There are very few data available on the problems of using alternating current when applied directly to a motor on an elevator. It is apparent, also, that eventually there will be no d-c. power transmitted for elevator service. Because of these facts and the size of this industry it seems that such data should be available. A paper covering the entire field in detail would be excessively long and it is therefore the aim of this paper to cover the subject in a general way, giving such outstanding facts as are felt to be of most interest at this time. It is hoped also to correct a false impression that is sometimes found to exist — that an a-c. elevator is not practical for car speeds above 350 ft. per min. Without question, this understanding was correct six or seven years ago but it is desired to call attention to the fact that for the past five years many a-c. elevators have been installed with car speeds in excess of 500 ft. per min. and today some are operating as high as 700 ft. per min., and nothing has appeared to indicate that there is a limit of car speed other than for any other type of control. A brief outline of the necessary requirements of the elevator machine is given because as yet the development of a-c. elevators has depended upon the success of this unit. The desirable characteristics of the motor are given somewhat in detail, the important ones being positive speed control, elimination of exposed and sliding contacts, speed ratios of at least 6:1, a rotor of low kinetic energy, quiet under operation, allowing torque characteristic changes, smooth control of speed changes, liberal temperature range, high power factor, a maximum torque capacity and maximum practical starting torque per ampere. The desirable characteristics of the controller which permit high speed elevator operation with economical and reliable service and a minimum number of shut-downs, may be outlined as follows: Full magnetically operated but with a minimum number and types of magnets, types of magnets that guarantee against magnetic hum or chatter requiring no oil immersion and giving a constant pull. The controller parts in general should be as interchangeable as practical, with oilless bearings and a minimum of auxiliary parts and contacts. As a whole, the controller and its wiring must be simple and easily understood. The principles of control allowing the high-speed elevator operation are rapid but smooth acceleration and retardation, a forced slowing down of the elevator by the motor irrespective of the operator and allowing the simultaneous or overlapping braking action of the slowing down and stopping means. The brake magnet must be one guaranteeing against magnetic hum or chatter, giving a constant pull, and must be positive and rapid but not violent in action. The curves which were taken by power companies serve to show the high power factor and a minimum of line disturbance."
"The question of changes in the registration of watthour meters due to variations in temperature is receiving considerable attention at the present time from manufacturers and public utilities alike. This paper discusses the development of a temperature-compensated watthour meter. The effect of certain changes in the fundamental constants of the meter circuits and the materials of certain vital parts are shown to point out the necessity of two independent compensating devices. The compensating devices found most effective consist, first, of a permanent magnet flux diverter mounted on bimetal strips in such a way that it shunts more or less of the permanent magnet flux around the disk, on a decrease or an increase in temperature, respectively, and second, a moving lag plate controlled by bimetal strips arranged in such a way as to cause the plate to move up or down with an increase or a decrease of temperature, respectively. In Appendix I is given the construction of a theoretical vector diagram of an induction type watthour meter showing the relative phase positions of the various fluxes, voltages and currents that are present. In Appendix II is given a discussion of the sources of temperature errors in watthour-meters as derived from an analytical study of this diagram. An attempt is also made in this paper to summarize these sources, the reason for their existence, and their effect upon the registration of the meter, in convenient tabular form."
"Much work has been done on the breakdown of insulating oil at small spacings between electrodes. Information for electrode separations of several inches is not as complete. It has been found that sources of ionization external to the gap influence the gap breakdown, so that the design of electrode supports and parts is of great importance. Data on several sizes of spherically terminated rods or cylinders are presented. Short-time breakdown tests are shown to be quite erratic and a form of long-time test schedule was developed which gives more consistent results. The final test used is called a ten-minute-hold and yields values for a given condition representing the maximum voltage that can be held consistently. This is of special interest in design. The empirical curves of oil breakdown are analyzed by mathematical methods. A general equation for breakdown voltage in terms of electrode diameter and separation is developed which agrees quite well with the experimental data. Evidence is presented to show that water in globular form suspended in oil may increase the breakdown potential considerably with spherical electrodes if the separation is several times the diameter."
"This paper discusses the necessity for standardizing voltages and advocates the utilization voltage as the most logical reference base. It suggests that the ratios adopted should be uniform at all voltages. It also proposes that there should be a recognized standard for transformers in which the direction of energy flow is subject to change."
"This paper covers interesting developments in the manufacture of copper wire and contains a description of a copper rod and wire mill designed to meet the new requirements. It also includes a brief survey of the copper rolling and wire drawing art at the time the investigation was started; a summary of tests made in varying the practise in rod rolling and wire drawing, and an outline of the work done by the Bell System engineers in developing and designing new types of wire drawing machinery. The economies in floor space and plant investment due to the use of more compact and higher-speed machinery are outlined. Some of the outstanding features in plant arrangement which contribute to more efficient operation are discussed in the concluding pages."
"Radio progress depends upon an increasing knowledge of the vagaries of radio-wave transmission. Radio transmitting and receiving devices have been highly-perfected, but received signals are still subject to variations and distortions. In order to secure data on the causes of these variations, the bureau invited a number of university and other laboratories to cooperate in their study. The principal work was the conducting of special radio transmissions from broadcasting stations, during which all the laboratories made simultaneous graphical records of fading."
"This paper deals with an optical method applied to watthour meter testing. The method as presented overcomes, to a great extent, personal error, and lessens the time required through the use of measured light impulses. It gives instantaneous comparison between watt-seconds on two measuring devices. The objects of this method are: First: To reduce the time of laboratory tests, acceptance tests and re-calibration. Second: To reduce personal error, and to increase the accuracy of the test. Third: To provide a device that gives precision instrument accuracy. Fourth: To make time devices in precision tests unnecessary."
"Strive as they may, scientists have been unable to attain a vacuum wherein a cubic inch includes fewer molecules than there are people in the world. Even so they have succeeded in removing 99.99,999,999 per cent of the gas. In other words, only one of every 10,000,000,000 molecules remains; yet there are 40,000,000,000 molecules in every cubic inch; the population of the earth is estimated at less than 2,000,000,000."
"This paper discusses the required characteristics of relays for use with a low-voltage automatic network circuit breaker. The relay performs the two functions of tripping and reclosing the circuit breaker. The characteristic required for each function is discussed. The major part of the paper is given to a discussion of the reclosing function because of the danger of “pumping” caused by cable charging currents and various combinations of induction regulators and transformer connections. Emphasis is placed on the suitability of relays consisting of watthom meter characteristics, construction and adjustments, involving only a different current coil and the replacement of the recording mechanism by standard relay contacts."
"New activities to be undertaken in its research work by the Society of Automotive Engineers include assistance in the investigation of causes and prevention of highway accidents by the Highway Research Board, to which C. B. Veal, manager of the research department of the society, was appointed at the annual meeting to represent the society; investigations into improved automotive production methods and motor vehicle operation and maintenance; dissemination of popular information on the results of the cooperative research on fuels and their effect on engine performance, and perhaps studies of the psychological factors affecting the riding comfort of passengers in motor vehicles."
"The characteristics of wireless waves ten miles aloft are to be tested by French scientists. Aeronautical experts of the French army have arranged to send up a small balloon which will carry with it a very light radio set that will automatically send out signals. From a like set, signals will be sent at the same time from the ground. The signals from both sources will be carefully recorded and studied. From the experiment it is hoped to obtain information regarding the effect of atmospheric conditions on wireless waves that will aid both aviation and wireless. — Telegraph & Telephone Age."
"J. C. Parker: I am quite sure from the remarks of Mr. Fairman that he would not want anyone to generalize from his description of what has been the engineering program of the Brooklyn Edison Company into a conclusion that the same medicine is good in all cases."
"S. J. Zammataro: The statement was made that it is possible for the ratio of energy in the broadcasting of a symphony orchestra corresponding to the fortissimo and pianissimo parts to be one million to one. Is that provision made in the broadcasting station to control that ratio, and if so, to what extent is it controlled?"
"Saul Dushman: I am going to ask you to take your mind away from the purely material problems of lighting streets, railway yards, etc., and consider, with me, the production of light by the atom. Our present views on the production of light originated with a Danish physicist, Niels Bohr, in the year 1912. So much has been published and written about this theory that I am afraid I will be repeating a great deal of what is probably quite familiar to a number of you. Nevertheless, I am going to present a sort of bird's eye view of the theoretical side of the problem with which Mr. Foulke will deal from a practical side."
"F. E. Terman: The results of Mr. Putman's carefully made calculations will be partially upset if the motor is fed by lines and transformers that have considerable impedance. This is because Mr. Putman's derivation assumes a constant voltage at the motor terminals, and this constant terminal voltage is not obtained if the supply lines and transformers have much impedance. In such a case the surging line current causes a varying voltage drop in the line. The effect of the line impedance can be taken into account in Mr. Putman's result by interpreting the motor terminal voltage to be the voltage nearest the motor that is substantially constant during the surging, and interpreting the so-called “real armature impedance” as the actual armature impedance plus the line and transformer impedance between the motor and the point of constant voltage."
"J. H. Bell: The old method of evaluating the quality of telegraph signals was by running a tape at a particular speed and measuring each dot and each space and comparing with the length of a perfect dot. That required a good deal of time to carry out. The experimenter in the laboratory, after making each change in his circuit, had to measure his tape before he could proceed any further."
"It is doubtful whether in this country more than one foundry out of six obtains all the benefit that it should from artificial light. The efficiency with which many foundry operations are carried on depends to a large degree upon the workers ability to see accurately and rapidly and in semi-darkness it is impossible for him to do either. Production and quality suffer from the effects of poor lighting and the accident risk is increased when vision is rendered difficult and uncertain."
"The Southwestern District of the Institute has every reason to be proud of its first Regional Meeting, which was held in Kansas City on March 17–18 with headquarters at the Kansas City Athletic Club. Approximately 225 members and guests attended the meeting. The technical sessions were well attended and drew forth excellent discussion, while the social features were particularly enjoyable."
"A very profitable and enjoyable meeting has been planned by the Committee in charge of the Regional Meeting of the Middle Eastern District of the Institute, which will be held in Bethlehem, Pa., April 21, 22 and 23. Technical papers on a wide variety of subjects of particular interest to electrical engineers in industrial plants and central stations, attractive inspection trips and other features will make this meeting one of the most successful. Details of the features and the schedule of events are given in the following paragraphs."
"A most attractive program is being planned for the Summer Convention of the Institute which will be held in Detroit, June 20–24. The program will include the Annual Reports of the Technical Committees, in addition to a number of papers ontimely subjects, such as power generation, electrical transportation, communication, electric arcs, transmission, distribution, etc."
"A steamer trip from Detroit to Mackinac Island and Georgian Bay is being planned for Institute members and their guests, to start on the day after the coming Summer Convention. This will be a three-day trip, the first boat leaving Detroit, Saturday, June 25, a second one returning to Detroit, Tuesday, June 28."
"The fourth Regional Meeting of the Northeastern District of the Institute which will be held in Pittsfield, Mass., May 25–28, promises to be a very successful meeting. A large number of timely technical papers will be presented and the committee in charge plans other very enjoyable features."
"The annual business meeting of the A. I. E. E. will be held on Friday, May 20, 1927, at 8:15 p. m. (Daylight saving time), in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City. At this meeting will be presented the report of the Committee of Tellers on the annual election of Institute officers, the annual report of the Board of Directors for the year ending April 30, 1927, and such other matters as may need attention."
"Joint meeting of the Akron and Cleveland Sections at the Ohio Insulator Works, Barberton, Ohio. Some new researches and manufacturer's developments, including carrier-current inspection. April 21."
"The meeting of the New York Electrical Society to be held 8.15 p. m., Wednesday, April 20th, will be devoted to some important investigations dealing with new uses for high-frequency electric currents commonly used in radio."
"The National Committee has already announced 75 meetings as arranged for Oil-Power Week, April 18–23, with many more in prospect. The varied list of meeting places and the subjects to be discussed evidence the wide scope of this activity. Participants in this week of conferences include the following technical bodies: The American Society of Mechanical Engineers; American Chemical Society, Local Sections; American Petroleum Institute; American Society of Naval Engineers; National Association of Stationary Engineers, and the National Association of Practical Refrigerating Engineers. Everyone interested is very welcome to attend any meetings taking place in local vicinities, and Mr. Edgar J. Kates, Chairman of the National Committee, 29 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. will gladly supply further information regarding them upon request."
"The regular Spring Convention of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers will be held at White Sulphur Springs, May 23–26. The technical sessions planned give promise of much of interest and importance and the convenience and charm of location will afford opportunity for many added pleasures to those in attendance."
"The formation of the Institute of Chemistry by the American Chemical Society will, beginning with this year, bring together every summer at a technical educational center, chemists from national laboratories of industry and education. The suggestion that such a convention be held annually “for the promotion of science in America” has been approved and The Chemical Foundation, Inc. and Pennsylvania State College have agreed to furnish funds to put the plan in operation for the first session to be held at Pennsylvania State College during July 1927. Northwestern University has requested the privilege of being the second university to cooperate in the 1928 session, to be held at Evanston. Locations for the third and subsequent sessions are to be determined at a later and more current date."
"Announcement is made of a new course in fuel engineering at the Towne Scientific School, University of Pennsylvania, beginning September 30,1927."
"Courses in electricity are included in the Summer Session plans of the Carnegie Institute of Technology. The College of Industries will give six weeks' courses from June 27 to August 5 in Elementary Electric Wiring, Advanced Electric Wiring, Elementary Principles of Electricity, Advanced Electricity and Elementary Principles of Radio Communication. The Radio course, it is reported, has been an outstanding success in the summer school work for the past four years."
"Dr. Frank J. Goodnow, President of The Johns Hopkins University, has authorized the following statement in reference to the future of the School of Engineering:"
"The 1927 issue of the Institute's Year Book is now ready for distribution and may be obtained upon application at headquarters. This contains an alphabetical and geographical cataloging of the membership revised to January 1,1927; also copy of the Constitution, By-Laws, list of officers and committees and much other valuable information relating to Institute activities."
"The American Society of Mechanical Engineers has accepted the custody of $17,500, to be awarded in three prizes of $10,000, $5000 and $2500, respectively for first, second and third prize for the “three best papers disclosing new information that will tend to advance the art of arc welding.” This fund has been established through the generosity of the Lincoln Electric Company, organized by Paul M. Lincoln, Past-president of the Institute. The company is now under the management of his brothers, James F. Lincoln and John Cromwell Lincoln, who have also been members of the Institute since 1908."
"After the close of the last session of Congress some of the changes effected by the recent legislation in patent procedure and practise were reviewed by Commissioner of Patents, Thomas E. Robertson."
"Several bills before the Commerce Committee of the Senate and the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee of the House during the last session of Congress proposed a modification of the existing definition of navigable waters as it is used in the Federal Power Act. Although no action was taken on these measures, they were the subject of vigorous opposition from Secretary of War, Dwight F. Davis, Acting Chairman of the Federal Power Commission."
"The report recently made by the Federal Trade Commission upon the request of the Senate, deals primarily with the regulation, control and ownership of commercial electric power companies."
"The Muscle Shoals problem received intermittent attention both in the Senate and House for weeks before the last Congress adjourned. It is understood that the House Military Affairs Committee tried to develop a measure which would have provided for acceptance of a bid from private corporations. Recent hearings were held before the Committee in regard to bids submitted by the Air Nitrate Corporation, the American Cyanimid Company and the Muscle Shoals Fertilizer Company, but no favorable action was taken on any of these proposals."
"A proposed new section of the A. I. E. E. STANDARDS, No. 26, Standards for Automatic Standards, is now available in report form and may be obtained from A. I. E. E. headquarters, without charge. This report has been brought to its present form by the subcommittee on Automatic Stations of the Committee on Protective Devices. It is now issued to obtain criticism and suggestions before final adoption as an A. I. E. E. STANDARD. Address inquiries to H. E. Farrer, Secretary Standards Committee, A. I. E. E., 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"On page 297 of the A. I. E. E. JOURNAL for March there was given a table on “Limiting Temperature Rises for General Purpose Open-Type Induction Motors,” this table to be Table II in the revision of Section No. 9 of the A. I. E. E. Standards for Induction Motors and Induction Machines in General. In the third item of the table the temperature rise for collector rings and commutators was erroneously given as 35 deg. cent. It should have been 55 deg. cent."
"At a dinner conference on Cooperation in Research Activities called by Engineering Foundation on March 11th, to which the Presidents and Secretaries of Founder Societies, Chairmen of the Research Committees of the Societies, and Members of Engineering Foundation Board were invited, a statement was presented by the Director of Engineering Foundation showing how the Societies and the Foundation can cooperate in after-college education. The following is an abstract of it."
"W. D. A. PEASLEE has resigned from the position of general manager of the Daven Radio Corporation to accept a position of assistant to the president of the Underwood Laboratories. MR. FRED ALLISON has resigned his position as chief electrical and mechanical engineer of the Ford Motor Company and will engage in consulting engineering work with H. R. Van Deventer, Incorporated, this city. Mr. Allison has been connected with the Ford industries for over twenty years."
"Clarence Erle Reid, who has been professor of electrical engineering and head of the department at Kansas State Agricultural College, Manhattan, Kansas, since 1914, died on February 28."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York."
"The Electrification of the Rubber Reclaiming Industry, by A. P. Regal, Philadelphia Rubber Co. A motion picture, entitled “The Design, Construction, and Testing of Large Power Transformers,” was shown. February 18. Attendance 33."
"The New York Section of the Institute will hold its second annual Student Convention on Friday, April 8, 1927. The meeting will cover an entire day and evening. The morning will be devoted to inspection trips by the students only. The afternoon session, in Room 1, Fifth Floor, Engineering Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York City will be occupied by the presentation of student papers in competition for the prize of $25.00 in gold offered by the New York Section. There are eight colleges in the territory of the Section giving courses in electrical engineering, and these will be entered in the competition. Following the afternoon session, a dinner will be held at the Fraternity Club, but because of limited accommodations, only those obtaining tickets in advance will be admitted. The charge will be $1.50 per cover. The morning and afternoon programs have been arranged entirely by committees of students and will be carried out solely under their direction."
"At a meeting of the Executive Committee of District No. 9, six papers which had been presented at Student Branch meetings during 1926 and submitted in competition for the District prize were considered."
"An abridgment of a paper for which the authors were awarded the Best Branch Paper Prize in Geographical District No. 9 for 1926. A copy of the paper is on file at Institute headquarters."
"An abridgment of a paper for which the author received honorable mention in the competition for the Best Branch Paper Prize in Geographical District No. 9 for 1926. A copy of the paper is on file at Institute headquarters."
"The regular monthly meeting of the Denver Section held on February 25, 1927 was planned in cooperation with the Student Branches of the Institute at the University of Colorado and the University of Denver, and the entire program was supplied by the Students."
"A Conference on Student Activities was held at the University of Colorado on February 26, 1927, under the auspices of the Committee on Student Activities of the Sixth Geographical District."
"The third annual Student Convention of the eastern region of Geographical District No. 2 was held at Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, under the sponsorship of the Philadelphia Section, on March 21, 1927."
"A motion picture, entitled “The Audion,” was shown. Mr. D. Schregardus, Ohio Bell Telephone Co., supplemented the picture with a talk. February 11. Attendance 45."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y. — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blv'de., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $8 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above, will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Institute is represented on the following bodies listed; the names of the representatives may be found in the January issue of the JOURNAL and will be published again in the June issue."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The continued increase in the amount of material published by the Institute in the Journal and the Transactions has been made evident to the membership by the constantly growing size of these publications, and there is little doubt that in the future this rate of growth will increase. Each succeeding year witnesses an increasing demand for publishing more and more material, and the advent of numerous regional meetings, a most desirable activity which is being fostered by the Institute, has already decidedly influenced this demand for the publication of more papers."
"The torque produced by a short circuit or other transient will produce a corresponding acceleration of the rotor. If the rotor is not connected to a load the acceleration of the rotor will be directly proportional to the torque. A small instrument is described which can be attached to the end of the shaft of the machine to be tested. This instrument records the instantaneous acceleration of the rotor, the corresponding torque being calculated. The acceleration is measured by two separate methods. The first method gives points on an acceleration — time curve and the second gives a continuous record of the torque. The acceleration is recorded on the oscillogram so that by using a six element oscillograph a simultaneous record can be obtained showing both the acceleration and the short-circuit currents. The mechanism for closing the short circuit at the desired point of the voltage wave and the method of checking the accuracy of the instrument are also described. A record from an actual short-circuit test is shown. The results of the tests will be discussed in a later paper. The instrument can also be used for measuring sudden shocks on motors and other rotating machinery."
"Many manifestations of the potency of electricity in industrial production processes have been had and the end is not yet. A threshold type of experiment with numerous industrial possibilities was recently described before the American Electrochemical Society by Drs. Lind and Glockler. Previous experiments of Dr. Lind with radon emanations acting on ethane or other hydrocarbon gases showed that ionization resulted, one part of which brought about condensation and the formation of an oil. He then conceived the possibility of applying silent electrical discharges to the gases in the hope that similar results would occur. In the experiments made electric fields were used instead of radioactive materials, and the results were very indicative of the occurrence of similar reactions. It is a far cry from these experiments to their commercial application, but a threshold experiment of this type will be carried much further under economic urge. — Elec. World."
"This paper considers the instability which sometimes occurs in banks of transformers supplying a capacity load when certain harmonics in the primary current are suppressed, either by the type of transformer connections or by a resonant circuit in series with the primary of the transformer, and the similarity between the several unstable circuits is pointed out. Curves showing the triple-frequency voltage distortion as a function of the capacity load have been included for two of the unstable circuits. For one case, oscillograms taken during the instability are shown. An explanation, substantiated by actual analyses, has been brought forward for the simplest unstable circuit, consisting of three branches connected in Y across a three-phase line with balanced, sinusoidal line voltages, with the neutral unconnected, each branch of the Y consisting of an iron-cored reactance in parallel with a capacity. This explanation is extended to the other cases, two with experimental evidence as justification, and the third by analogy only."
"Tests conducted by the United States Bureau of Mines, Department of Commerce, in a Colorado metal mine indicate strongly that radio waves will penetrate 500 feet or more of rock strata. These preliminary experiments were observed by Dr. A. S. Eve, Director of the Department of Physics, McGill University, Montreal, Canada, who is conducting a study for the Bureau of Mines of the possibilities of various methods of geophysical prospecting for the location of underground mineral deposits."
"Like that of many other rotating electrical machines, the development of the large induction motor has been a steady and an interesting progression. From the first induction motor to the present product has been a long step, marked by the analytical ability of many capable engineers, and accompanied by continual improvements in construction, some of which are reviewed in this paper. To describe the advancement in this type of motor to its present state, it has been necessary to follow some trends in development from their beginning; thus not all of the improvements mentioned in this paper can be called recent, as time in the rapidly advancing electrical industry is measured. The paper, taking up briefly the subjects of ventilation, insulation, coil design and bracing, collectors, bearings, and manufacturing improvements, should be of interest to the many users of the large induction motor."
"Equipment to measure changes in length of the order of a billionth of an inch has recently been devised by P. P. Cioffi of Bell Telephone Laboratories. Such a length but about one-tenth the distance between the atoms of most metals would be required to equal a piece of ordinary tissue paper in thickness."
"This paper describes the auxiliary power system of the Richmond Generating Station of the Philadelphia Electric Company, mentioning briefly some of the factors which influenced the design of the system and discusses the starting of large motors at full voltage from an auxiliary turbine generator."
"This paper discusses the problem of obtaining selective relay protection in case of accidental grounds on high-tension isolated neutral systems. A relay was developed whose overcurrent element operates on the residual charging current which exists when a ground occurs on such a system, and whose directional element is operated by residual charging current and residual voltage. Two schemes can be employed: One using high-tension potential transformers for energizing the voltage coil of the directional element; the other, which is more complicated but cheaper, making use of low-tension potential transformers. Tests were undertaken on the 140-kv. system of the Consumers Power Co. to determine the effectiveness of this relay system under conditions of arcing and solid grounds. These tests were successful and it was therefore decided to make general use of such relay equipment for the high-voltage isolated neutral system. The relay scheme was put into operation during March, 1926, and the operating records available adequately substantiate the test results."
"DEFINITION OF ARC. An arc is a discharge of electricity, between electrodes in a gas or vapor, which has a voltage drop at the cathode of the order of the minimum ionizing or minimum exciting potential of the gas or vapor. ARC CHARACTERISTICS. The relation of arcs to glow discharges and coronas is illustrated by discussion of “generalized” curve of the gas discharge characteristic. Empirical equations for arc characteristics are interpreted, and a dependence on the boiling temperature of the anode is shown. Seeliger's experiments on the transition from glow to arc, accompanied by the development of a cathode spot, show that the mechanism of the current at the cathode is fundamentally different in the two types of discharge. CATHODE SPOT. An analysis based on heat conduction in the cathode shows that the cathode spot has no sharp thermal definition, but does have a sharp boundary if defined by visual brightness or by thermionic emission. The phenomenon of moving cathode spots presents the problem of accounting for the observed temperatures. THEORIES OF CATHODE FALL. Comptons theory is based on space charge considerations and the assumption that the thickness of the fall space is equal to the electronic mean free path. Langmuir's theory differs from Compton's in assuming this thickness to be considerably less than a free path. Considerations of energy balance at the cathode definitely support Langmuir's rather than Compton's theory. ENERGY BALANCE AT CATHODE. Calorimetric measurements permit an estimate of the fraction of the current at the cathode which is carried by electrons. Though uncertain, the data are accurate enough definitely to support Langmuir's theory and to indicate that, in many cases, thermionic emission of electrons from the cathode is supplemented by a “pulling out” of electrons by the electric field which is concentrated at the cathode surface. Factors which determine the anode drop and the potential fall and ionization in the negative glow and the positive column are briefly discussed."
"THE rational mechanical design of any overhead contact system must be based upon certain fundamental rules of mechanics, usually those dealing with statics, or forces in equilibrium, applied to the physical characteristics of the track alinement. Theoretically a problem for the civil engineer, the general solution and detailed application of the design has been assigned to the electrical engineer in most cases, as the number of papers presented on this subject would indicate."
"Load ratio control of transformers, which means the possibility of changing the transformation ratio without interrupting the load, has found very rapid adoption on account of its wide application possibility. It provides the long sought solution for a voltage regulation on industrial loads and large blocks of power, and enables a perfect tie-in operation of two or more power systems with any desired load dispatch regardless of voltage or power factor. It is the only economical method known to operate extended transmission systems on an equipotential basis. The paper gives the various possible applications and some details of the electrical and mechanical design of the apparatus."
"WITHIN the last few years rapid strides have been made toward electrification of the petroleum industry. The trend is definitely toward the use of this form of power for all purposes except heating. Motors and attendant equipment are but the first links in this chain of power supply — distribution lines, substations, transmission lines, and the central generating station must increase greatly to care for the requirements of the latest industry to swing to purchased power in the face of adequate and cheap fuel supply easily available at the point of application."
"No longer will it be necessary to keep airplane landing fields brilliantly lighted all night when a new invention only recently demonstrated is perfected to the point of being manufactured in quantity. The noise made by the hum of an airplane 1000 ft. in the air closed the switch that lighted a bank of flood lights at Bettis Field, McKeesport, in the first demonstration of the sound sensitive automatic lighting apparatus developed by T. Spooner, an electrical research engineer."
"This paper gives a brief outline of the history and general development of automatic switching equipments in the United States and Europe, as applied to power equipment. A general review is made of the advantages of automatic equipments, consisting not only of a saving in operating expenses, but also of better operating characteristics as compared with manually controlled stations. The various designing problems, adherent thereto, are pointed out. A comparison based on personal observation is made between the conditions in the United States and Europe, which accounts for the less rapid development and less extensive applications of automatic equipments in Europe, and a brief review is made of the results obtained in the latter years. Mention is made of the more recent applications, such as to mercury arc rectifiers. A brief description is also given of supervisory control systems, the development of which has progressed hand in hand with the automatic equipments. The accompanying illustrations show some typical modern American and European installations."
"Changing the voltage ratio of transformers under load is now a recognized and established procedure. Methods of changing taps under load are discussed, illustrated and compared. Equipment for obtaining smooth curve voltage control is discussed, as well as combination voltage and phase-angle control."
"This paper discusses transmission line operating experience on the 140,000-volt isolated neutral system of the Consumers Power Company, Michigan. Careful inspections and tests have been made to determine the conditions existing relative to insulator flashover and the findings and results are shown by tables and curves. Ground resistance or soil conditions appear to have a very decided effect on the number of flashovers on the various lines. The necessity of providing suitable arc protection to the line conductors is shown, as is also the soundness of certain theories and recommendations for increasing the reliability of transmission lines, based upon laboratory experiments."
"Up to a few years ago, the generally accepted limitations for the amount of current which could be collected from an overhead distribution system were from 800 to 800 amperes in heavy inter urban service and between 800 and 1000 amperes, with a maximum of 1500 in the case of the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul. It is not possible to determine the limits of current collection by theoretical calculations nor by the experience on any particular installation. The tests described and analyzed in this paper were demonstrated on a four-mile track using special overhead construction of the twin trolley type with observation towers at several points to enable observers to carefully inspect commutation between the collector and the trolley wire. Tests were also made to determine the temperature rise which would be obtained as a result of delivering, for a period of five minute's, a current of 5200 amperes to a standing locomotive. Further tests were made to determine what damage would result, if any, should a pantograph leave the wire while delivering currents as high as 4000 or 5000 amperes. Test data are included and description of the several types of overhead construction used."
"A formula is derived for the mechanical force in a circle of round wire, due to its own current. A formula, F = I2 logh a1/a2, is also derived for the longitudinal force exerted on a round conductor, due to its own current, where it changes its diameter. Where there is a constriction in a liquid conductor, this force acts in both directions away from the constriction, thus tending to accentuate it. It may be that this has more to do with the rupturing of a liquid conductor by heavy current, than the better known forces acting in a radial direction, which have been usually referred to under the name “pinch effect.”"
"To the Board of Directors: This committee has carried on its work during the past year according to the general plan of organization which has been in force for the past three years. The membership of the committee has been materially increased over the number of last year in an endeavor to be prepared to handle the increasing amount of work naturally resulting from the rapid growth in quantity, size, variety and quality of electrical machinery. Experience has shown that the work of a committee can be effectively carried on only when the members are able to get together and carry on a discussion across a table, following, perhaps, a preliminary exchange of views by letter. For this reason, the membership of the committee has been restricted to those living within a day's journey of New York or in the territory east of the Mississippi River. This territory embraces practically all of the manufacturers of electrical machinery, a large number of universities and large users of machinery for power generation and distribution. It is not intended, however, to exclude any members who are in a position to, or willing to, assist in any way whatsoever. In this connection, your attention is directed to the general call for volunteers which appeared on page 1 of the Journal of January, 1927, over the name of the chairman of this committee."
"A theory of the propagation of electromagnetic waves guided by a system of parallel wires is developed with particular reference to the effect of the earth, and is simplified so that it is identical in form with the elementary theory. Important general properties of a system of parallel conductors and their application to problems of propagation in power or communication circuits, or in a system of both types of circuits, derived by Professor Pleijel from the elementary theory, are mentioned together with several remarks of practical importance. The simplified theory leads to the same conclusions and, consequently, to the same applications. The simplified theory gives promise of successful application to such problems of propagation in transmission systems which heretofore as a rule have not been formulated with sufficient precision."
"E. F. Gehrkens: The subject of voltage control is an exceedingly important one and it was so recognized as far back as 1882, at which time an automatic generator voltage regulator for d-c. machines was developed."
"C. R. Hanna: In the paper by Mr. Kellogg no mention has been made of factors which determine the sensitivity of the pickup device other than that mass has something to do with it. This statement is made: “The foregoing comparison of magnetic systems does not take into account the possible power output of the winding, nor is the elastic stiffness required to hold the armature in its mean position allowed to weigh in the choice. The comparison is wholly from the standpoint of obtaining the maximum open-circuit voltage with the minimum effective inertia of moving parts.”"
"D. W. Roper: I am not going to subscribe to the implications in the paper that this type of construction is the only one that will result in successful high-voltage joints, but I can subscribe to the statement that single-conductor cable joints which are made up in essentially the same manner as the joints on each of the three conductors in Mr. Peterson's three-conductor joints, are very successful. In Chicago we have about 750 single-conductor joints made up very much the same as the individual conductors in Mr. Peterson's metal-sheathed cable joint; that is, they have the reinforcement of the insulation, the extension of the metal sheath to the point of maximum reinforcement and then a tapering of the reinforcement as well as a tapering of the conductor insulation."
"W. H. Lesser: I want to ask which is preferable, the multiple-break or the plain type of circuit breaker? R. M. Spurck: The problem of economically producing interrupting capacity in an oil circuit breaker is fundamentally a problem of reducing gas formation. That breaker which produces the minimum amount of gas under any particular operating conditions is the most economical. Gas formation depends upon the total length and the total duration of the arc; that is, an arc two inch long will result in greater gas formation than an arc one inch long, first because more gas is formed per second; and, second, if speed of opening and all other factors are equal, the period of gas formation will be, of course, twice as long."
"INTRODUCTION The author does not claim that the following list of applications of mechanics to electrical engineering is complete. Moreover, this list is not to be understood as a proposed program of what electrical engineering undergraduates should be taught in their course in mechanics. The list simply contains those problems in mechanics with which the author and his co-workers have come in contact during the thirty years of his professional activity in electrical engineering and electrophysics, including teaching, design, operation, consulting practise, research, study, and literary work."
"The second regional meeting of the Great Lakes District will be held in Chicago, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, November 28, 29 and 30, 1927. Convention headquarters will be at the Drake Hotel. The first day will be devoted to student activities and student papers and the following two days to the other features of the program."
"In accordance with an action taken b y the Board of Directors on October 19, a special meeting of the Institute membership will be held at the Drake Hotel, Chicago, on Tuesday afternoon, November 29, 1927, at 2:00 o'clock."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, October 19, 1927."
"A World Engineering Congress will be held at Tokio for a period of two weeks during the. latter part of October 1929. Baron Shiba, as the official representative of fourteen Japanese technical societies, reported at a recent luncheon at the University Club, New York, that definite progress in preparation for the Congress was now being made. He received the assurance of American support from the group of engineers present, representing the national engineering societies, industrial and utility executives, and consulting engineers."
"Every person conducting research on dielectrics is requested by the Division of Engineering of the National Research Council to tell that body the specific problems on which he is working. All information received in this way will be tabulated and used by the Committee on Insulation in this Committee's efforts to coordinate research in this field and thus eliminate unnecessary duplication. The information should be sent to the Division of Engineering, National Research Council, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y."
"William B. Woodhouse, Past-President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers of Great Britain, has recently visited Canada and the United States with the object of noting the developments in the electrical industry. His trip included Quebec, Montreal, Buffalo, Detroit, Chicago and New York."
"The University of Louvairf, which was one of the first in Europe to give attention to the natural sciences, has just celebrated its 500th anniversary with brilliant ceremonies, and in these ceremonies, the engineers of America have participated through the spokesmanship of Doctor Edward Dean Adams, who was chosen as their representative. For forty years, during the French Revolution and the Napoleonic wars, the doors of the university were closed. It reopened however, in 1835 and its faculty of science was established, attracting by its research work many students and professors from all over the world. Its colleges of engineering and science grew and did excellent work until devastated by the World War, when the great library was totally destroyed by fire; but the buildings are now being restored and enlarged through the collaboration of national resources and the assistance of the United States and other countries. Under the auspices of an American committee with President Butler of Columbia chairman, and the leadership of Mr. Whitney Warren a New York architect, a new library building has been designed and is being erected with money contributed by hundreds of thousands of Americans. Nickels and dimes from more than half a million school children and teachers; gifts of from $1.00 to over a hundred thousand from students of practically every college, university, academy and preparatory school; city departments, foundations and individual have contributed to this important undertaking. Doctor Adams represented 56,000 American engineers to a distinguished assembly of the nations royalty and dignataries of both state and nation. Keen interest was manifested in the development and maintenance of this permanent joint activity for scientific achievement, stimulated by the work in individual fields of research. The tower of the new building will be designed for a four-dial clock and carillon — a perpetual reminder of the good will of the American people. Another ceremony typifying the support of the four founder societies was the planting of four California redwood trees, — seedling Sequoia Gigantea, — in front of the new engineering building. This ceremony was performed b y Doctor Adams and his grandson, Kempton Adams."
"An important change in the administrative organization of the Bureau of Standards, which it is believed will make for increased efficiency through a better grouping of the Bureau's numerous activities, was announced today by the Director, Dr. George K. Burgess."
"October 21, the John Fritz Gold Medal for 1928 was awarded to GENERAL JOHN J. CARTY, of New York, Past-President of the Institute for achievement in telephone engineering."
"Since 1914, when Ambrose Swasey established the Engineering Foundation, the idea of such a national research institution has gained ground steadily and surely. The income from the Foundation which in 1915 was $5000, has increased to $30,000; Mr. Swasey's several gifts totaled $500,000; there has been $50,000 from Henry R. Towne, $50,000 from Edward Dean Adams, and $10,000 from Seeley W. Mudd. In connection with the cooperative projects in which the Foundation has participated, many donations of equipment, materials for research, services, and money have been made and several wills of persons still living are known to contain bequests."
"On Friday evening, September 30, the Engineers' Club of San Francisco formally dedicated a well-equipped and very attractive new home at 206 Sansome St., San Francisco. As an organization, the Club cooperated in every way not only with the local section but with the many sections of engineering societies. Its headquarters has become the gathering place for uncheon and evening meetings."
"On December 5–8, The American Society of Mechanical Engineers will hold its Annual Meeting at the Engineering Societies Building, New York, N. Y. Machine shop practise will occupy the opening sessions; there will be also considerable data presented upon railroad subjects, fuels, the handling of materials, photography, management, aeronautics, central power stations and research will also occupy important places upon the interesting program which the Society has planned for its members and guests. At the final session, Thursday afternoon, Dec. 8, the Henry R. Towne Lecture will be given by T. S. Adams, Professor of Economics at Yale University."
"A device that has been called “a machine with a moral sense” because it will detect erasures on checks, show up bootleg whiskey in its true colors, expose art forgeries and imitation gems and do almost everything except make arrests, is one of the wonders which attracted attention at the Electrical and Industrial Exposition, held at the Grand Central Palace, October 12 to 22."
"F. KRUG, was appointed General Manager of the Porto Rico Railway Light & Power Company, effective September 1st."
"John L. Phillips, Pacific Coast manager of the Okonite Company, died suddenly at San Francisco, September 6th, of heart failure. Mr. Phillips was well known in the electrical industries of the Pacific Coast. From 1900 to 1901 he was in the Electrical Department of the Northern Pacific Railroad, which position he left to become superintendent of the Electric Lighting Company at Staples, Minn. He returned to the Railroad Company the following year and remained with them as Signal Engineer until 1910. Then he became Assistant Engineer and Estimating Engineer for the General Railway Signal Company, Rochester, N.Y. In 1914, he was chosen Sales Engineer of the Central Railway Signal Company, New York, N.Y. and held this position up to the time of engaging with the Okonite company in 1919. Mr. Phillips joined the Institute in 1921."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St. New York."
"Boston Inspection trip to Fore River Yard of the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation and the Airplane Carrier U. S. S. Lexington. Talk by Capt. L. Shane, U. S. N. October 1. Attendance 300."
"Extensive plans for a Student Convention including both a technical program and a District Conference on Student Activities, to be held on the first day of the Regional Meeting of District No. 5, at Chicago on November 28–30, are being made by the District Committee on Student Activities in cooperation with the local committees."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m"
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blvd., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $8 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Technical Committee on Electrical Machinery was appointed in 1917 by Mr. E. W. Rice who was then President of the Institute. It comprised six members. The late Professor Alexander M. Gray was Chairman. Its first annual report is given at p. 720 of Vol. XXXVII (1918) of the Transactions. The concluding paragraph of this first report is of such interest that it is given below:"
"The cathode ray oscillograph frequency measurement circuit described differs from previous circuits in the use of by-pass condensers and plate leaks which permit the connection of the oscillograph to a-c. circuits having large d-c. components and which permit the use of biasing controls for shifting the position of patterns on the screen. Reference oscillators are used in conjunction with the frequency standards. They are of a type chosen for their high stability. The well-known properties of Lissajous' figures are reviewed briefly and then developed more fully for the cases in which only one term of their ratios may be determined from the oscillograph pattern. Following a general discussion of the accuracy of syntonization, there is discussed a detailed method of calibrating oscillators. The patterns used may be interpreted from one term of their ratio. Interpolation formulas are derived for use in making interpolations on the reference oscillators. The methods of interpolaion, discussed may be used for intervals up to 0.5 per cent frequetncy with high degrees of accuracy. The interpolation formulas are extended further in the development of approximation methods by which any unknown frequency may be quickly determined within a few per cent. Several special circuits are described for use in frequency measurement work with the cathode ray oscillograph. The methods and apparatus described are suitable not only for the technical measurements of a development and research nature but are equally adaptable for routine commercial work. The advantages which particularly commend themselves are the rapidity with which such work may be done and the ease with which the average man can learn the work."
"This paper describes control systems for multiple street-lighting systems and deals particularly with the systems employed in New York City. The paper is introduced by a brief history of the development of street lighting since 1879 when the series system, the first street-lighting method, was established."
"This paper describes, in an elementary manner, the various relations between distribution system characteristics and the design characteristics of the relays which are used to provide automatic control for the so-called automatic, low-voltage, a-c. network distribution system. In the first part of the paper the general principles of operation of the relays and the limits of magnitude of the various actuating forces are discussed; in the latter part, the relations between distribution system characteristics and the phase angles' involved in the operation of the relays are described. It is shown that relays having simple watthour-meter characteristics are not fully applicable to all network systems of the automatic type, but are generally applicable to those having certain limited characteristics. Relay characteristics which would have practically universal application are described and a brief discussion as to the future trend of development is included."
"1. Radio broadcasting involves a system of electrical distribution in which dependent relations exist between the transmitting station, the transmitting medium and the receiving station. 2. The attenuation and fading which attend the spreading out of broadcast waves are considered. The attenuation of overland transmission is shown to be, on the whole, very high and to vary over a wide range depending upon the terrain which is traversed. The distance at which the fading of signals occurs is found to be that at which the normal directly transmitted waves have become greatly attenuated and to depend upon the terrain traversed. 3. A field strength contour map is given of the measured distribution of waves broadcast by station WEAF over the New York metropolitan area. A rough correlation is given between measured field strengths and the serviceability of the reception in yielding high grade reproduction. The range of a station as estimated in terms of year-round reliability is found to be relatively small. It becomes clear that the present radio broadcasting art is upon too low a power level and that higher powered stations are required if reliable year-round reception is to be had at distances as short even as 80 to 50 from the transmitting station. 4. The question of the preferred location of a transmitting station with respect to a city area is considered. It is shown that an antenna located upon a tall building may radiate poorly at certain wavelengths and well at others. Surveys are presented of the distribution effected by an experimental transmitting station located in each of several suburban points. The locations are compared upon the basis of the “coverage” of receiving sets which they effect. 5. Finally, there is considered the relation which exists in respect to interference between a plurality of broadcast transmitting stations operating in the same service area. The importance of high selectivity in receiving sets is emphasized and there is given the measured selectivity characteristics for samples of a number of receiving sets."
"This paper deals primarily with the illumination of modern large classification yards of the hump type in which the traffic is in one direction. Floodlighting is advocated as the most generally satisfactory system, and various arrangements, to meet the different conditions of yard layout, space available, etc., are described."
"Changes in the transmission and distribution system of the Brooklyn Edison Company during the past four years are briefly described and mention is made of the effect of these changes on the system's efficiency. In 1927 a low-voltage, a-c. network will be installed and this will be extended to care for the load growth until it becomes the principal supply system for low-tension energy in Brooklyn. The plan of development is described in detail. The unique features are: First, a suitably designed network unit consisting of a three-phase, 500-kv-a., low-loss transformer with an automatic network circuit breaker mounted in the low-tension pothead of the transformer. Second, the operation of the high-tension feeders without regulators, at 27,000 volts, direct from the generating station. Third, the ultimate plan of interlacing the high-tension feeders to reduce the overload on transformers and to maintain good voltage regulation with one feeder out of service, and to pick up overload in areas of different load characteristics to obtain the advantage of diversity. It is shown that this plan of development insures better service to the customer from every point of view, makes for safer working conditions on the system, results in general system improvement and involves less total investment as well as a considerable reduction in losses and operating costs. The appendixes describe tests made to determine whether arcing and short-circuit faults in the network will be self-clearing, the permissible voltage fluctuations on incandescent lamps, and the dissipation of heat from transformer vaults."
"The present position in regard to powerful motor headlights is decidedly unsatisfactory. These powerful beams, projected in a restricted radius on pedestrians and other road users, are a source of profound irritation and something will have to be done to regularize or provide an alternative to their use. What is the remedy? Mr. Edward Fryer, of the Automobile Association, states that in New York the use of powerful headlights is forbidden in all streets. A prohibition of that kind, however, can commend itself only as a satisfactory solution when the alternative means of lighting public lamps give the requisite degree of illumination to render street traffic safe. It is an undoubted fact that in many towns, particularly those with boulevards of trees, the shadows thrown upon the road surface are a real peril, compared with which powerful headlights are the lesser of two evils. We do not think, as one speaker suggested at the meeting of Public Lighting Engineers, that the Automobile Association is in the slightest way attempting to shelve some of its responsibilities in this matter. What that Association is out for is a maximum of comfort for its members, which maximum is only realizable coincident with a maximum degree of safety both to motorists and other road-users."
"The desirable characteristics of automatic switching units designed for application in secondary a-c. distribution networks are discussed in this paper. Descriptions are given of units designed for wall mounting and for manhole installation. These units are connected to the low-voltage side of the network transformer for the purpose of automatically disconnecting a transformer from the low-voltage network whenever a fault develops on a primary feeder connected to the transformer. When proper voltage is restored to the primary feeder the unit should automatically reclose."
"Low voltage a-c. networks are coming into use as a means of providing a source of power having the dependability of the Edison d-c. network, and at the same time having the efficiency which can be obtained by supplying power from high voltage feeders with transformers located near the point of utilization. As in the case of d-c. networks, it is assumed that all trouble on the network itself will be burned clear without seriously interfering with any of the service. In case of trouble on a primary feeder or in one of its transformers, however, it is necessary to disconnect the feeder from the system. The a-c. network unit has been developed to connect these transformers to the network, and the “brains” of this unit, which is the automatic network relay, is described in this paper. This relay not only opens the network breaker whenever there is trouble in any of the high tension equipment or when the power feeds back into the high tension feeder but also recloses the breaker when conditions are restored to normal and the feeder is in condition to supply power to the network. The difficulties which were encountered and the relay characteristics necessary to overcome them are explained briefly. The first installation of network units was made in April 1922 on single-phase, three-wire and two-phase, three-wire networks fed by three-phase, 2750-volt primary feeders. Since that time numerous improvements have been made and new designs created to extend the field of application, but the same general scheme of operation has been retained. The automatic network relay is now past the experimental stage, approximately 1000 of them having been in service for some time. The probable future development of the network relay based upon operating experience to date is pointed out. Attention is called to the close relation existing between the operating characteristics of the automatic network relay and the characteristics of the system on which it is to be installed."
"THIS method applies to rotating electrical machines having rectangular slots and trapazoidal teeth sections. If any apparent tooth density at the widest section be assumed, then a quick and reasonably accurate determination of the corresponding no-load field ampere-turns may be made."
"In earlier publications of the department, such as “Super Power Studies in Northeastern Section of the United States,” great emphasis was laid upon the possibilities of the elimination of waste which lay in the transformation of the power industry through the discoveries in the science of long-distance transmission and their application by large central generating plants feeding large system and their interconnection with each other. Such savings lay in the greater economy in power production by saving fuel and labor by the larger central plants; the reduction of the amount of reserve equipment required; a better average load factor, and thus less equipment, through pooling of the daily and seasonal fluctuations, together with wider diversification in use; more security against interruption; better utilization of water power by applying it to base loads while making steam carry the peaks; utilization of secondary power from the seasonal flow of streams to the partial relief of steam; savings in industry by replacement of factory steam plants, the increased day load being supplied by the same generating equipment as night load for cities; the larger application of power in replacement of factory labor; and likewise the economies in the household and farm application of power."
"STEPHEN GRAY AND FRANKLIN IT is now two hundred years since Stephen Gray discovered that an electrical charge will move with great rapidity along certain substances called conductors today. The motion of electricity began then to attract the attention of the natural philosopher, and it became the subject of many scientific researches, particularly after Franklin had demonstrated that lightning is a motion of electricity. There is no doubt that many a scientist of Franklin's time associated with the destructive power of lightning something resembling the destructive power of a projectile; something endowed with an irresistible momentum. But who would have dared to suggest in those days that moving electricity just like moving matter had a momentum? Nobody suspected in those days that the history of the electrical science of the first half of the nineteenth century would be a record of the gradual evolution of this electrical momentum concept. Oersted's discovery in 1819 of the magnetic field of force accompanying the motion of electricity marks the first step in the progress of that evolution."
"E. Roth : Very interesting remarks have been made by Messrs W. F. Dawson, B. L. Barns, P. A. Borden, and C. J. Fechheimer concerning the application of the method which H. M. Hobart demonstrated in 19132 for the determination of the losses in totally enclosed and ventilated electric machines, by the calibration of the air circuit which permits elimination of the measurement of rate in flow of the cooling air. These remarks have shown the high merit of the various alternatives of this method, which ought to be generalized owing to its great usefulness in industrial practise. For this reason, two alternatives, of which one corresponds to that referred to by Mr. Dawson and the other to the one I have developed in the paper mentioned by Mr. Barns, have been submitted by the French National Committee to the International Electrotechnical Commission to be introduced in the rules concerning the tests of electrical machines. It may be of interest to quote this text which is being brought to the knowledge of American engineers:"
"M. I. Pupin: This paper recalled to my mind the first paper which I read relating to an a-c. circuit in which a simple harmonic force is impressed and the resulting current is complex harmonic. It was a paper written by the late Professor Rowland of Johns Hopkins, about thirty-eight years ago."
"W. S. Lee: Referring to interconnection in the Southern States, this interconnection has been in effect something like 15 to 18 years. I am afraid that this committee is going to get on dangerous grounds when they try to have the entire area controlled by devices from one point."
"W. A. Del Mar: Mr. Hoover's main thesis is based on certain experimental curves obtained by K. W. Wagner and showing the relation between volts and amperes in various dielectrics. In a discussion of another paper which took place the same year Mr. Peaslee2 indicated that these curves could be interpreted in terms of volts and current density. Mr. Hoover makes a third step; namely, that these same curves may be interpreted in terms of potential gradient and current density, and he proceeds to build on that. It is disturbing to me that it took three men to take those three steps. I cannot help wondering how many other things we almost know, yet do not quite know, that will require two or three men to elucidate."
"The Bureau of Standards celebrated 25 years of service to the public, the industries, and the Government on December 4. The observance of this event was peculiarly fitting. On that day the staff kept “open house” and received all those who cared to take advantage of this opportunity of becoming acquainted with the bureau and its work. Probably 1500 people visited the laboratories. Among these were a large number who had never visited the bureau before, as well as many old friends and former members of the staff. A luncheon was served in the Industrial Building and throughout the day every effort was made to explain to the visitors the varied researches in progress in the laboratories."
"The NELA Bulletin for December, 1926 carries an article by Joseph F. Becker, Chairman of the Industrial Lighting Committee, dealing with industrial lighting campaigns conducted by central station members of that Association during the past year. Better lighting was provided for nearly 20% of the prospects in 15 communities for which data are available. The average sales statistics involved are given."
"In comparatively few years, the modern motor car has evolved from a machine that was merely a motor driven carriage. Earlier automobiles provided merely the essentials of transportation. The chief concern was to make a car that would be dependable, one that would get you there and back. The motor car of today is not only highly dependable, refined in its mechanical features and smooth in performance, but is also characterized by beauty in line, finish, and appointments, and by features which make for greater ease, comfort, convenience, and safety in travel. This tendency is reflected to some extent in the lighting provisions. The average number of lighting units per car for all automobiles on our highways has been slowly increasing and is now nearly five and one-half what it was."
"The first meeting of the International Union of Producers and Distributors of Electrical Energy was held September 21–26, 1926, in Rome. This Union was organized last year by three professional societies interested in the central station industry, representing France, Italy and Belgium. The program for its first meeting included principally papers on central station operation but one group dealt with the subject of illumination and another with the development of applications other than lighting."
"Some of the finest technical sessions of recent years as well as other outstanding features will mark the coming Winter Convention of the Institute which will be held in New York, February 7–11, 1927, with headquarters at the Engineering Societies Building."
"Three regional meetings will be held by three Districts of the Institute during the months of March, April and May, respectively at Kansas City, Mo.; Bethlehem, Pa., and Pittsfield, Mass."
"Power-Factor Problems, by Frank Wallene. This talk will be accompanied by a demonstration in the Electrical Laboratory of the University of Akron. January 14."
"A joint meeting of the New York Section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers with the Metropolitan Section of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers will be held on Wednesday evening, January 19, 1927 at 8:00 o'clock p. m., in the Auditorium of Public Service Terminal, 8 0 Park Place, Newark, N. J."
"The National Nominating Committee of the Institute met at Institute headquarters, New York, December 9, and selected a complete official ticket of candidates for the Institute offices that will become vacant August 1. 1927."
"Mr. Gherardi was born in San Francisco, California, April 6, 1873. He was graduated with the Degree of B. S. from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn in 1891, and from Cornell University with the Degree of M. E. 1893 and Degree of M. M. E. in 1894."
"The regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Friday, December 10, 1926."
"The Edison Medal for the year 1926 has been awarded by the Edison Medal Committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers to Dr. William D. Coolidge, “for the origination of ductile tungsten and the fundamental improvement of the X-ray tube.”"
"The John Scott Medal has been awarded to Gustaf W. Elmen for the invention of the nickel-iron alloy of very high magnetic permeability known as “permalloy.” Mr. Elmen is a Member of the Institute and Electrical Engineer in the Bell Telephone Laboratories. The medal will be presented to Mr. Elmen during the coming Winter Convention of the A. I. E. E. on Friday morning, February 11."
"At its December 10th meeting, the Board of Directors of the Institute gave further consideration to the subject of policy and procedure as regards electrical engineering standards. The Board extended its action of February 9, 1926, dealing with the formulation of the Institute's standardization policy, so tfrat the complete procedure is now outlined as follows:"
"At the meeting of the Board of Directors of December 10, 1926, the recommendation of the Standards Committee of December 3rd, that Section 9, A. I. E. E. Standards for Induction Motors and Induction Machines in General, be revised was approved. The Working Committee under the chairmanship of P. M. Lincoln, which developed the Standards, has approved the revision, effective as of January 1, 1927 as follows:"
"The A. I. E. E. Standards for Alternators, Synchronous Motors and Synchronous Machines in General are now available in Spanish. This section of the Standards, which is No. 7 in the listing of A. I. E. E. Standards, is the first of a series of about 20 which will eventually appear in Spanish."
"At a meeting of the Standards Executive Committee December 3, 1926, a revision of Section 7, A. I. E. E. Standards for Alternators, Synchronous Motors and Synchronous Machines in General was suggested. This revision originated in a subcommittee of the Committee on Electrical Machinery and consists in the addition to Section 7 of a paragraph entitled “Calculation of Natural Frequency for Synchronous Motors Direct Connected to Reciprocating Machinery.” This addition is of entirely new matter and would probably be inserted between paragraphs 7–300 and 7–350. The Standards Committee directed that notice of the suggested revision be published in the JOURNAL and urgently requests that any comments or suggestions be forwarded as soon as possible to the Secretary of the Standards Committee, A. I. E. E., 33 West 39th St., New York City. The text of the proposed paragraph follows:"
"By action of the Standards Executive Committee at their meeting of December 3, and subsequent approval by the Board of Directors of the Institute on December 10, 1926, two sections of the A. I. E. E. Standards were ordered submitted as American Standards to the American Engineering Standards Committee. The sections referred to are as follows: No. 38, Standards for Electric Arc Welding Apparatus (March 1925); and No. 39, Standards for Resistance Welding Apparatus (Revised September, 1926). Both of these Welding Standards were developed by a representative working committee of the Standards Committee under the chairmanship of F. M. Farmer and, in accordance with the regular practise of the Standards Committee, received wide distribution in report form for purposes of criticism and suggestion before finally approved as A. I. E. E. Standards."
"The Constitution of the Institute provides that the Board of Directors may exempt from future annual dues, any Fellow, Member or Associate who has paid dues for thirty-five years or shall have reached the age of seventy after having paid dues for thirty years. The Board has voted that this group be designated “Members for life.”"
"The Fifth National exposition of power and mechanical engineering was a tremendous success. It registered strides of progress throughout the entire field of the design of all types of mechanical equipment."
"An important step in the progress of the investigation of engineering education was taken at a joint conference held in Washington, D. C., on November 18 and 19, under the auspices of the Board of Investigation and Coordination and the Division of Deans and Administrative Officers of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering education. On this occasion the Board presented the first installment of its Report and proposed a plan for a new phase of activity in the colleges to be directed to putting the findings of the investigation into effect. The Report and the proposed plan for further activity received the hearty endorsement of the conference."
"Announcement of the coming Annual Meeting of the American Society of Civil Engineers as recently issued gives full details of the pleasure and profit in store for those who plan to attend. In general, it will be noted that the arrangement of the sessions follows the program that has been so successful in past years."
"About 1000 members and guests are expected to attend the annual dinner of the Society of Automotive Engineers, which is to be held at the Hotel Astor, January 13th. The speakers on the program have not yet been announced, but it is fair to assume that they will be worthy of the occasion and par excellence in quality. Election of the new president of the Society for 1927 will take place, J. H. Hunt, head of the electrical division of the General Motors Corporation Research Laboratories being the chosen nominee. Mr. Hunt has been a member of the A. I. E. E since 1907."
"A dinner at which industrialists, engineers and scientists from all over the United States were present was tendered to James H. McGraw, president of the McGraw-Hill Publishing Company the evening of December 17th at the Astor Hotel on the occasion of his 66th birthday and his 40th year in the service of engineering and industry. Secretary Hoover, Thomas A. Edison, Gen. Guy E. Tripp, Chairman of the Board of the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Gerard Swope, President of the General Electric Company and Owen D. Young, Chairman of the Board of the General Electric Company were members of the sponsoring committee."
"Representatives of the Metric Association of New York and other scientific organizations appeared before the Senate Committee on Commerce, December 10th, in support of Senate Joint Resolutions No. 105 and No. 107."
"The bill in which engineers have long been interested, providing for increased salaries for all Federal Judges, became a law when it passed the House of Representatives December 9, and was signed by the President on December 13. The engineers' interest in the measure was due primarily to a hope that the increased salary would keep competent men on the Federal benches, where all patent cases are adjudicated."
"There are available through Yale University, five yearly scholarships of $1000 each, designed to stimulate advanced study in transportation, with special regard to engineering features of railroad construction, equipment and operation and the study of transportation by water, highways and aviation."
"On the evening of December 7th formal award of the John Fritz Gold Medal was made to Elmer A. Sperry, President of the Sperry Gyroscope Company and Charter Member of the Institute. The occasion was honored by such speakers as William L. Saunders, Chairman of the Naval Consulting Board of the United States, Rear Admiral Bradley A. Fiske, United States Navy, retired, and Gano Dunn, Past President of the Institute and Chairman of the National Research Council, Washington, D. C."
"The success of the first two Summary Bulletins already issued has led the Highway Research Board to establish the policy of an Annual Bulletin, designed to meet the demands of the engineer in such a manner as to make practical application of its data possible."
"A. E. WALLER, Fellow of the Institute and actively helpful on its Marine Committee in the formulation of the new rules and marine standards, on Dec. 13th left his position as chief engineer of the Ward Leonard Electric Company to become managing director of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association. He had been chief engineer since 1918 and connected with the company since 1909. He has been active also in the affairs of the Elec. Mfgrs. Council and served two years as president of the Electric Power Club. Both of these organizations are included in the new association."
"George E. Luke, Research Engineer for the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company and Member of the Institute, was killed in an automobile accident on the morning of November 28th. Mr. Luke was an extremely active member of the Institute and although but 34 years old, had presented many papers before the various conventions as well as taking enthusiastic and able part in the discussion of many of others' authorship. He was a native of Seneca, Missouri, where he received his early schooling, later graduating from the University of Missouri with the degree of B. S. in Engineering. Mr. Luke also attended Princeton for a year and obtained his E. E. degree. In 1917 he entered the employ of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co., with which he has remained ever since. He completed its graduate Student Course, including the engineering course and a six months' course in electrical design, after which he entered the Railway Motor Design Section. In 1918 he was located in New London, Conn., as the Westinghouse representative in the development of anti-submarine devices, and from 1919 to 1923, he was assigned to special experimental investigation for the Railway & Motor Engineering Departments. In 1924 he was elevated, to the position which he held at the time of his death, Section Engineer in charge of ventilation and insulation investigations of a research character. Mr. Luke joined the Institute in 1920 as an Associate and recently was transferred to grade of Member."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminsteredfor these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, together with the addresses as they now appear on the Institute records. Any member knowing the present address of any of these members is requested to communicate with the Secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York."
"Three new Student Branches have recently been organized at the University of Santa Clara (Cal.), the Municipal University of Akron (Ohio), and Princeton University respectively. The addition of these Branches increases the total number to 93."
"An Electrical Show was held by the Student Branch at Pennsylvania State College on Alumni Day, October 23. The displays consisted of practical exhibits of household appliances, lighting, etc., and a number of interesting “trick” displays."
"Motion pictures, entitled “The Queen of the Waves” and “Big D,” were shown. November 17. Attendance 41."
"Graphic Instruments in Industry, by Dr. D. J. Angus, Esterline-Angus Co. Illustrated. November 18. Attendance 35."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides notice of recently published articles outside of this publication that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Approximately seventy-five members of the American National Societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers died in service abroad during the World War. No memorial to these engineers has been set up. A unique and fitting possibility was discovered during the summer."
"A description is given of a new method of overhead contact design, the “ideal inclined catenary”. This is based on an originally discovered tension and weight relation formula. A proof of the formula is given and other characteristics of the design are mathematically analyzed. A number of railroads now using inclined catenary is listed and data on the weights and tensions of their overhead constructions are given for comparison purposes with the “ideal.” The necessity of making a definite selection of a proper contact wire tension in any inclined catenary design is indicated and that this, together with the use of the design formula, leads to standardization of overhead systems is pointed out."
"The standard instrument for measuring crest values of high alternating voltages at 60 cycles is the spheregap voltmeter, which measures a voltage by the distance which it will flash between spheres. In much of the high-voltage research, however, very high frequencies are used. For measuring the voltages used in these high-frequency tests, the spheregap voltmeter is used, the assumption being made that its calibration at high frequency is but little, if any, different from that at 60 cycles. In the endeavor to make the spheregap a standard for measuring peak values of voltage at high frequencies, as it is at present a standard at commercial frequencies, experimental data were obtained from which calibration curves for the spheregap voltmeter were plotted for frequencies ranging from 28,000 to 425,000 cycles per sec. for standard conditions of temperature and pressure. These curves cover a voltage range from about 10,000 to 50,000 volts, the source of the high-frequency voltage being a Poulsen arc with variable inductance and capacity in its a-c. circuit. The results show no appreciable change in voltage required to flash across a given gap as the frequency increases until a frequency of about 20,000 cycles is reached, then a gradual decrease in required voltage us the frequency increases from 20,000 to 60,000 cycles, after which a single curve holds for all frequencies at least up to 425,000 cycles per sec., the highest frequency tested. The theory shows that this curve should hold up to a frequency of about 6,000,000 cycles for a one-cm. gap, after which a further decrease should be found. At and above 60,000 cycles per sec., the voltage required to flash across a one-in. gap is 13 per cent lower than the voltage required at 60 cycles, provided only the ions occurring naturally in the atmosphere are available to start the ionization which produces the flashover. In the course of the investigation it was noted that flooding the spheres with ultraviolet light decreased the voltage required to flash across a given gap at high frequency by about 3.5 per cent, whereas no such effect is found at commercial frequencies. Therefore a complete set of calibration curves for the frequency range covered was also obtained for the spheres flooded with ultraviolet light. The results are explained by showing that at high frequency a space charge of positive ions will accumulate between the spheres, this space charge distorting the potential gradient sufficiently to allow a spark to pass, even though the average gradient between spheres is considerably lower than is necessary at 60 cycles. The space charge depends on the rate at which ions are added to the field by ionization and the rate at which they are lost by diffusion and mutual repulsion, the terminal condition reached when the rate of gain equals the rate of loss determining the voltage at which flashover will take place at any given frequency."
"Methods of employing the cathode ray oscillograph for investigation of corona loss are described. By deflecting the ray of cathode particles (electrons) in one direction within the tube by a voltage proportional to the applied voltage, and in a transverse direction by a voltage proportional to the current, a closed figure representative of the loss, is thrown upon the screen. Methods of obtaining photographic records of these figures and of calculating therefrom accurate values of the power expended are given. The instrument used is well adapted for this work. Power measurements of 0.1 watt can be measured with an accuracy of 1 per cent. From the volt-ampere cyclograms the characteristics of the positive and negative loss on the a-c. wave are readily observed. The instantaneous voltage of which the loss starts and the instantaneous values of the combined corona and capacity currents can be accurately determined. Measurements of the corona starting point and loss on various conductors check the laws of corona established by Mr. Peek in 1910. The formulas of “critical disruptive gradients” and “visual disruptive gradients” were closely checked. The loss was found to follow a quadratic above the visual critical corona voltage, ev. For cables and roughened conductors the excess loss below ev due to surface irregularities approximately follows the probability law. For smooth, polished conductors the loss suddenly jumps from zero to a definite value at ev and then follows the quadratic. The practical effect of the condition of the conductor surface is forcibly brought out by the following data measured on a 336,400-cir. mil cable at 63.5 in. spacing to neutral plane:"
"The paper reviews the general characteristics of large synchronous condensers, with particular reference to the possibilities of greater standardization in condenser specifications. Particular emphasis is placed on the question of the ratio of lagging to leading kv-a. capacity, and it is concluded that about 50 per cent lagging capacity is normal, while any important increase in this ratio requires special design of greater size and cost. Attention is called to the advantage to be gained by the use of reactors in place of such oversized condensers, where extra lagging capacity is needed. Separate sections of the paper are devoted to starting and stability characteristics, and to recent improvements in the design of synchronous condensers. Finally, the use of asynchronous condensers is discussed and found to be undesirable."
"To the Board of Directors: 1. THE TRAINING OF RESEARCH WORKERS There is, perhaps no more important problem at this time than that of the training of research workers and engineers. The popular appreciation of research is increasing. This is good because the chief stimulus of research is a certain state of mind akin to, but more than, curiosity and inquisitiveness which without doubt can be developed in the proper atmosphere. It was a similar state of mind, a dissatisfaction, a desire to go where others had not gone and see what others had not seen that actuated our pioneer ancestors and resulted in America. It would thus seem that the right material should be available; but more than material and popular appreciation is required to create the necessary state of mind. Are our colleges doing their part? As was pointed out in the report of this Committee last year, indications are that they are not. As a gage on the research in electrical engineering at colleges, Dr. F. E. Terman, of Stanford University, has made a statistical study of research papers presented by college professors and their students. The following is quoted from his report which appeared in the April 22, 1927 of Science:"
"This is the third part of a series of papers on the subject of synchronous machines. The first two were I. An Extension of Blondel's Two-Reaction Theory, II. Steady State Power-Angle Characteristics. The present paper deals with the power-angle, or torque-angle, characteristics under transient conditions, namely, A. Cyclic variation of impressed torque, B. Sudden angular displacement, C. Synchronizing out of phase."
"THE standards of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers define an oil circuit breaker as a “device (other than a fuse) constructed primarily for the interruption, in oil, of a circuit under infrequent abnormal conditions.” Common usage, however, has sanctioned the use of the term “circuit breaker” as applying to a device for the regular and usual interruption of an energized circuit as distinguished from a switch used only for opening circuits which are de-energized or not carrying load. This paper will consider only high-voltage oil circuit breakers, the term “high voltage” being taken as applying to potentials of 25,000 volts or above."
"The importance of electricity to the production of iron and steel has reached such magnitude that this Committee believes that all engineers should be informed as to the situation so as to be prepared to apply it successfully in all its fields of application. To this end, the Committee would outline the extent to which electricity is being applied in this industry."
"A qualitative analysis of the nature of the space charge created about a conductor in corona, particularly with respect to relative magnitudes and polarities, rather than actual quantitative measurement, is described here. This work was the principal work on corona during the past year in the Ryan High-Voltage Laboratory. In tests with the arrangements of a wire and a plane, and of a wire and a cylinder, a decided rectifying effect was discernible in the space about the conductor in corona, in that that region was built up to a unidirectional potential above ground, the magnitude and polarity of this potential depending on the voltage applied. In both of these set-ups, this net rectification, which is evidently caused by some differential action entering into the ionization process, was of a positive sign at the start of corona, but changed over to negative as the voltage was raised. In a test made on two 1.1-in. diameter, parallel concentric strand copper conductors, 10 ft. apart, the space between them was found to have assumed a potential above ground when the conductors were in corona, the sign of this charge being negative at first, and then positive as the voltage increased. Tests were also carried out on a single brush, and on a rod fitted with “artificial” brushes. In a corona-loss curve taken on the two cable conductors it was found that at the same voltage at which the sign of the rectified space charge had reversed, there was a “break” in the curve. This “break” corresponded to the point above which Peek's quadratic law of corona holds, and below which he has suggested the entrance of a probability relation. A final field test was made at a span of the 220-kv. Pit River Lines of the Pacific Gas and Electric Co., in order to ascertain the magnitude and polarity of the charge built up about a high-voltage line in service. A negative polarity was found to be present as far down as 30 ft. below the conductors. Although the voltage was raised to 260 kv., the charge remained negative, indicating that the line at its normal 220-kv. potential was operating at a point on the corona-loss curve appreciably below that where the break occurs in the curve."
"In an article appearing in the A. I. E. E. JOURNAL for March 1927, Prof. A. E. Kennelly gave the following analytic expressions for computing the forward (positive-phase or direct sequence) and backward (negative-phase or reverse sequence) components of a dissymmetric three-phase vector triangle."
"Building safe storage for the products of the oil industry is quite a different problem from making the storage already in use safe from fires started by lightning. The latter problem is discussed with some principles to be observed. Details of construction are so varied that it is difficult to give general rules. A record of several hundred installations over a period of about three years is given. Work with small models in the laboratory has been successful in some cases. It is unwise to rely too much on work of this kind, however. Since the seat of the charge under a storm cloud is largely on pipe lines, tanks, and other metal parts in the oil fields, lightning devices should be securely attached to these structures. A network of pipe lines at or near the surface makes a better ground for towers than a single shaft driven vertically downward to permanent moisture."
"Operating characteristics of interconnected systems in which voltage is maintained constant by varying field of the generators is compared with operating characteristics, when, in addition to the control of generator field, transformers equipped with ratio control are employed. The use of transformers with variable ratio introduces a flexibility in operation which permits the division of wattless currents between generating stations independent of voltage held at the generator busses. A comparison is made of the use of synchronous condensers for the purpose of improving regulation as compared with the use of transformers equipped with ratio control. The elementary conditions which govern the current distribution in a loop, L, are determined in terms of impedance characteristics of the network. The equipment necessary to control the current distribution and at the same time maintain good regulation in the loop are indicated."
"This paper covers Chapters VII, VIII and IX of a thesis presented by the author to the Faculty of the Graduate School of Cornell University, for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. In this thesis a summary is made of the experimental facts regarding the anomalous behavior of solid insulating materials under varying conditions of potential, time, temperature, frequency, humidity, ionizing radiations and various other factors. A bibliography containing about 400 articles dealing with experimental and theoretical research is appended to the thesis. These articles are chronologically arranged and numbered. Five tables are given, including references to experimental research done on (a) dielectric resistivity, (b) dielectric charge and discharge, (c) dielectric constant, (d) dielectric strength, (e) dielectric energy loss. Hypotheses are here established which account, in a general way, for the observed behavior of solid dielectrics. Definitions of the resistivity, permittivity, electric charge and electric strength of solid dielectrics under both continuous and alternating potentials are submitted. Terms are introduced and defined: e. g., the “(i — t)-characteristic,” the “electrization curve,” and the “hystero-viscosity loop.” The various energy losses occurring in dielectrics are traced to their sources and subdivided into hysteresis, viscosity and resistance losses. Methods are devised for separating the total dissipated energy into its three component parts. Finally, the classical theory is shown to apply to imperfect solid dielectrics if the submitted definitions and terms be adopted."
"This paper discusses the application of printing telegraphs to ocean cable operation. Reference is made to various improvements in apparatus and operation, tending toward increased output, and the effect of the application of these improvements from the laying of the first cable to the present time. Telegraph codes and their relation to speed and their applicability to printer operation are also discussed. Transmission methods, shaping of the signals, variable lag and the effect of earth currents are also described in the paper. Manual, semi-automatic and full automatic operation of long ocean cables are covered briefly. The characteristics and advantages of regenerative repeaters are pointed out and the operation of printers on cables described."
"Three papers on the general subject, “Graphical Determination of Magnetic Fields,” are being presented simultaneously to cover three phases of the subject: 1. Theoretical Considerations, 2. Comparison of Calculations and Tests, by E. E. Johnson and C. H. Green, 3. Practical Applications to Salient-Pole Synchronous Machine Design, by R. W. Wieseman. In the complete paper, which is the first of this series, the authors have reviewed the history of the subject, have briefly stated the ordinary rules for plotting magnetic flux in air and in current-carrying copper, have developed additional rules for checking the accuracy of field plots, and have given theoretical methods for mathematically calculating the distribution of field in certain cases commonly encountered in practise."
"The mechanisms of corona and corona loss have been studied with the cathode-ray oscillograph. High voltage power of the order of 0.1 watt can be measured with an accuracy of 1 per cent with this instrument. The measurements show that the loss follows the quadratic law above the visual critical voltage. On polished wires there is no loss until the visual critical voltage is reached. The loss then starts quite suddenly and takes a finite value on the quadratic curve. On cables and imperfect conductors there is a loss below the visual critical voltage on brushes at local “rough” spots. The loss due to these irregularities can be represented by the probability law. This is quite in accord with former work. In practise it is important not to mutilate the conductors in stringing. The really important factor in design is the irregularity factor, mo, for weathered conductors. No line should be operated with a corona loss under fair weather conditions. It is not necessary from the economic standpoint since large diameters can be obtained with special types of conductors. The visual critical corona voltage can be calculated with great accuracy. As the applied a-c. voltage is increased above the visual critical value, the instantaneous critical voltage becomes lower and lower until finally corona starts at the zero point of the wave. This occurs when the applied voltage is twice the visual critical voltage. At still higher voltage, corona starts below zero or on the falling wave. The effect is as if the instantaneous critical voltage is reduced by an amount approximately equal to the excess of the applied voltage above the visual critical voltage. Thus when the excess is equal to the visual critical voltage the instantaneous voltage is zero. This occurs when the applied voltage is twice the visual critical voltage. The reason for this is clearly shown as well as many other interesting facts. Artificial corona was readily produced with all of the characteristics of real corona after the mechanism was determined. The quadratic law seems to be the rational expression for the loss. Details of measurements are given in the supplemental paper on measurements by Starr and Lloyd, “Methods Used in an Investigation of Corona Loss by Means of the Cathode Ray Oscillograph.”"
"This paper describes the calculation of the “hot spot” temperature rise in an electric machine from data obtained by a load test of short duration. The chief difference between this method and those previously used is that a simple exponential curve for the heating has usually been assumed, while the present method endeavors to follow more closely the actual conditions."
"The subject of this paper is a phenomenon of great interest and very great complexity. The electric arc is a tool of extreme power and flexibility. The electric arc can be used to melt the most refractory substances, cut the armor plates of battleships or weld together the ends of wires no thicker than a human hair. It is a wonderful tool that makes or breaks almost anything. It may unite the most indifferent elements such as nitrogen and oxygen, or break the molecule into its constituent atoms. In this paper we shall discuss only one type of application of the electric arc; namely, the application of the arc to the welding of metals, but even in these limits the field is very wide. The electric arc was discovered by H. Davy who in 1810 was experimenting with the sparking between two horizontally disposed carbon pencils. The density of the current was such that on short circuit the tips of the carbon pencils were heated to incandescence. When the electrodes were separated the electric current continued to flow across the air-gap between the carbon pencils. The air-gap was bridged by some sort of an extremely bright band which under action of the accending currents of hot air was bent upwards and formed a bow or an “arc.” This is the origin of the term, the “electric arc.” For many years the electric arc was used only as a source of light. It was only years later that the electric arc was applied for the purpose of melting and welding metals together. In 1881 de Meritens for the first time used a small carbon arc for melting and welding the lead terminals of storage batteries. The more extensive application of the carbon arc was done by Bernardos. This process was modified by Dr. Zerener of Berlin, Germany, who shortly prior to 1890 invented a process of welding with a flaming arc. In this process two carbon electrodes are disposed to form a “V”. The arc is drawn between the two electrodes and caused to impinge upon the metal to be welded by being forced down by a powerful electromagnet. This arrangement caused the arc to act in a similar manner to the flame of an oxyacetylene flame. The energy developed in this arc is only partly transmitted into the weld and the efficiency of the method is very low. The third type arc welding known now as a metallic arc process was discovered about 1890 by H. Slawianoff. This engineer conceived the idea of producing steel ingots by an electrical casting process. Metal was deposited from a steel rod into a mold, an electric arc being maintained between the rod and the metal of the mold. Means were provided whereby the metal rod could be fed forward as it was consumed and a solenoid arrangement was provided for maintaining the arc length substantially constant. The ingots obtained under such conditions proved to be sound and free from shrinkage pipes. However, the cost of electrical energy in Russia in those days was very high and the process was commercially uneconomical. The information obtained by Slawianoff in this work led to the application by him of the metallic arc to the uniting together of metal plates, the repairing of cracked and broken machines, etc. Thanks to the work of Slawianoff we now possess a method of welding with metallic electrodes which at present is by far the most used of all arc welding processes."
"The Rubber Division of the Department of Commerce, in a circular recently issued, announced adoption by the Rubber Association of America of a new set of official type samples of crude rubber to serve as a basis for transactions between sellers of rubber and American rubber manufacturers."
"In this note, the question of the effect of assuming infinite permeability in the iron on the accuracy of calculations of the interpolar fields in electric machines is studied. One can do this very easily by replacing the saturated by non-saturated poles, covered by an infinitely thin sheet of current giving the same tangential component of the field along the surface of the iron. The field produced by this sheet of current, then, represents the difference between the exterior fields of the saturated circuit and of the non-saturated circuit. In addition to this indirect method of estimating the influence of saturation, the sketch of the field between the poles and in the air-gap can also be directly developed by determining with the aid of the differential field, the point of indifference of the saturated circuit. A comparison of sketches obtained in this way shows that, for the same useful flux, the inter polar fields are almost the same in both cases. From these sketches and others which will appear shortly in the Revue Generale de l'Electricite, it is evident that the sketches and functional curves given by Messrs. Stevenson and Park, and Wieseman, in their very valuable work, can still be used even though the poles are saturated."
"The long session of the 70th Congress convenes on Monday, December 5th. A survey of important legislative matters which will come before this Congress, according to the leaders, shows that there are many items of interest to the engineer. These include flood control, railway consolidation, provisions for the public building program, the assembling of public works functions in the Department of the Interior, the important engineering projects such as Boulder Dam, Columbia River Basin projects, Muscle Shoals, and River and Harbor improvements."
"Production of “Aldrey,” a new aluminum alloy, developed for electric power lines and said to have tensile strength that does not interfere with its electrical conductivity, has begun in Germany and production licenses have been granted for both Germany and Austria, the American Consul at Frankfort-on-Main, has reported to the Department of Commerce."
"IN telephone practise there are, broadly considered, two distinct methods of completing telephone calls between central offices, one by means of direct trunking and the other by means of tandem trunking. The fundamental difference between these two methods may be best obtained by referring to Fig. 1. It will be noted that direct trunking, as the name implies, requires a separate group of trunks from any one office to every other office, whereas tandem trunking provides for a single group of trunks from each office to a centralized point, known as the tandem center or office, at which are means for switching together any desired amount of tandem switching is done automatically. The first tandem trunking system to employ on a large scale, apparatus for switching which is under the control of dials located at the various operators' positions tributary to the tandem office, was recently installed at Los Angeles to handle the short-haul toll traffic within a radius of approximately 40 mi. This system is known as a dial tandem system."
"The southeast England electricity scheme, 1927, prepared by the electricity commissioners, is now in the hands of the central electricity board, the official superpower company, which is to generate electricity and distribute it wholesale throughout Great Britain. The board will consider any changes which interested parties may wish to suggest and will then take the necessary steps to make the scheme a reality. This is the second program of the sort prepared by the electricity commissioners; the first one, having to do with Scotland, was simpler, as it was only involved in the two industrial districts of Glasgow and Edinburgh."
"THE development in power transmission has been in the direction of delivering increased amounts of power per circuit over greater distances. This trend raises two fundamentally important questions: 1. What constitute the output limitations of the alternating current system of power transmission, and 2. How close to these limits is it feasible to operate transmission systems?"
"In a report on railroad yard lighting recently presented at the annual convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society it was stated that prior to the development of a satisfactory system of electric lighting, night operations in railroad yards were carried on by the aid of hand lanterns. The hazards to the workmen and the equipment were very great. Men were injured, cars and contents damaged, material was stolen and all work materially slowed up. Studies made for devising means of expediting cars through the yards have led to the lighting of the entire trackage by systems of general illumination. The results were reported as very gratifying and showed an economy and efficiency in operating conditions, richly rewarding the railroads for the small expenditure necessary."
"It is the object of this report to give to the members of the Institute an idea of the commercial importance of Electric Arc Welding."
"The increase of a-c., low-voltage network systems employing automatic sectionalizing equipment has been very rapid. This move has been attended by a diversity of choice of combined light and power schemes for the secondary mains. Carrying this condition to its logical conclusion may result in an extremely complicated situation for apparatus connected to these mains. There might thus be imposed on the industry as a whole a heavy expense tending to cancel a part of the savings attributed to the advent of the combined system. A study of the effects on seven types of equipment concerned showed that general purpose motors are hardly more important than most of the other devices. This analysis included not only the applicability of existing apparatus standards to each of the combined systems but also the probable developments that the future may bring. For a comprehensive comparison of the various schemes it was found necessary to consider the commercial as well as the engineering aspects. If the operating companies decide to employ the combined light and power system universally for secondary networks, it is urged that they will soon apply the practise of standardization to the combinations of connection and voltage. In this regard, due consideration should be given to the bearing of numerous trends in the industry. Widespread discussion of the situation is now desirable."
"H. P. Sleeper: I was not aware that we had progressed to the extent indicated by Mr. Breisky's paper, where we can actually place ground protection on a system where there is no ground current."
"F. C. Caldwell: There are two types of minds that are particularly adapted to the training for research, — on the one hand, the student who is distinctively scientific, who has the real research spirit, the desire to know, the scientific curiosity, — on the other hand, the inventor, the man who has ideas that seem, to him at least, to be inventions of importance."
"H. F. Brown: Mr. Viele's paper emphasizes many points which are in line with similar experience on the New Haven system such as I. The advantage of the auxiliary wire above the working conductor. 2. The necessity for proper steadying devices for the trolley, on both tangent and curve construction, especially against transverse wind loads. 3. The avoidance of long spans in exposed locations. 4. The advantage of locating sectionalizing and splicing devices at or near the supports. 5. The avoidance of hanger members which do not make a positive contact with both the messenger and the contact. 6. The importance of correlating the pantograph design with that of the overhead contact system, and the possibility and desirability of further refinement in the pantograph design."
"E. A. Williford: (communicated after adjournment) I should like to augment the information given in this report on the production and application of ultra violet light for medicinal and industrial purposes."
"Philip Torchio: Electrical engineers should have particular interest in following the development of the size of the generators. The report states that there is a 208,000-kw. unit under construction. It should have said that it consists of three machines cross-compound. If I remember rightly, the largest single unit in operation in the New York Edison 60,000-kw. The Edison-United Companies have a large cross-compound 160,000-kw. unit on order and placed an order June 21 for a 165,000-kw. unit. The generators of the unit order last year are, one, 85,000-kw. and the other 75,000-kw. and, for the unit ordered yesterday, the generators will be 80,000-kw. each."
"D. W. Roper: This report calls attention to some of the lightning arresters and distribution circuits in Chicago. For fear that the readers might get a wrong impression, I want to add a little to what appears in the report. The lightning-arrester records of the several types appeared to indicate that the results obtained were not quite what were expected. Further investigation of that point has brought out an interesting feature, somewhat unlooked for, in that some of these burn-outs which have been recorded and which have affected our results were due to lightning entering via the secondary circuits. The lightning arresters we have are on the primary circuits. The primary distribution, in general, occupies the top arm and the secondary ordinarily the next lower arm. Sometimes it is on the same arm with the primary circuits. As the lightning potentials which appear on the line are in proportion to the height from the ground, it is seen that the secondary circuits have been getting almost the same lightning effects as the primary."
"A. M. MacCutcheon: I should like to ask the committee if they can give us any more detail on the progress in getting apparatus approved with an unqualified approval of the Bureau of Mines. As I understand it, they give limited approval to certain types of apparatus. I have not yet learned that they give unqualified approval of types for use in gaseous mines. In talking to the people of the Bureau of Mines at Pittsburgh about two years ago, my conception was that they are approving apparatus because it is the best there is, but it is not thoroughly satisfactory. They said that if they used tests that they would be satisfied with, there was nothing on the market that would stand them. They said, “We are not giving unqualified approval. When we get the right kind of apparatus, we will give unqualified approval.” I was wondering if apparatus now gets unqualified approval."
"V. Karapetoff: The diagram of connections used by the authors permits of obtaining an oscillogram of the total current, consisting of a reactive charging component and an in-phase energy component. In some cases it may be of interest to obtain a picture of the latter component alone. Perhaps this could be accomplished by some differential arrangement; that is, by using a condenser which takes the same reactive charging current as the conductor under test but has practically no corona loss. The high-voltage side of the step-up transformer would then be wound for a double voltage, with the middle point grounded; the added condenser would be connected to the other terminal of the transformer, and the resistance R3 would be connected to the neutral point. Only the difference of the currents taken by the conductor under test and the perfect condenser would flow through R3."
"G. H. Doan: The top wire of our 120-kv. lines is very much more susceptible to flashover and damage than any of the others. We had concrete evidence of that last year when a lightning stroke hit directly on a radio tower which was very close to the high-voltage lines. A klydonograph about a quarter of a mile away showed that there was about 5 times normal potential on the top wire, 3.3 on the middle, and 2.7 on the bottom. That, however, did not cause flashover, and did not, of course, cause opening of the oil circuit breaker."
"A. L. Cook: I think it is a decided indication of progress in the development of sets when the manufacturers begin to test their complete sets and publish results of these tests."
"The Bureau of Standards has recently announced the development of an instrument known as the “earth current meter” which measures corrosion of underground structures. In connection with this announcement it is stated that the determination of the seriousness of corrosion of underground structures due to stray electric currents has been difficult and the results unsatisfactory because there has been no simple method of measuring the amount of stray current at the point where electrolysis is suspected. For this reason, engineers of the Bureau have endeavored to develop an instrument which will indicate directly the strength of the current in the earth at a given point. It works upon the theory that the rate of corrosion is directly proportional to the strength of current flowing from a structure. Such an instrument would indicate directly whether the structure under test was in danger from electrolysis. The instrument is described in detail in technical paper No. 351, which also describes the various ways in which it may be used to determine electrolysis conditions."
"It has been common practise to use five lamps in series in street railway lighting service where line voltages run about 550 or 600 volts. The lamps regularly used in such service have heretofore been of the straightfilament, vacuum type, rated in wattages 23, 36, 56 and 94 but otherwise similar to the old type of lamps used for multiple lighting service. Gas-filled lamps of ordinary construction cannot be used satisfactorily in series on the high line voltages used in street railway service. The chief cause for unsatisfactory operation is the maintaining of the arc in case the filament is broken while burning. The surrounding gases hold it in a persistent manner due to the high voltage back of it, and eventually the arc becomes destructive."
"Many live topics will be on the program for the coming Winter Convention of the Institute, to be held in New York City, February 13–17, 1928. A technical program has already been tentatively laid out and it includes such subjects as operation of interconnected power systems, protective and control systems, automatic substations, arc welding, electrophysics, communication, and electrical machinery."
"The annual fall meeting of the Affiliated Engineering Society Sections of Virginia, consisting of the Virginia Sections of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and American Society of Civil Engineers, and the Southern Virginia Section of the A. I. E. E., was held November 11–12, at the University of Virginia, Charlottesville."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Cooperating with the National Research Council, Division of Engineering and Industrial Research, the American Institute of the City of New York will hold what it chooses to call a “Science Luncheon” Saturday, December 10th, at the Town Hall Club. The speakers will be Maurice Holland, Director of the Division of Engineering and Industrial Research, National Research Council, who will take for his subject, “The Vanishing American Genius,” and L. A. Hawkins, executive engineer of the Research Laboratory, General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., who will discourse on “Research-Organized Genius.”"
"“Engineering Progress and World Civilization” will be the general subject for the Fiftieth Anniversary celebration of the Engineers Club of Philadelphia to open the evening of Friday, December 16, at 8:00 o'clock, when John R. Freeman, pastpresident of the American Society of Civil Engineers and Ambrose Swasey, past-president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers will address the meeting on “The Past in Engineering Fifty Years ago — 1877.” This will be followed by an entertainment and smoker. A buffet supper will also be served."
"The Third Annual Convention of The Institute of Radio Engineers is to be held on January 9th, 10th, and 11th, 1928. The program is to include the Annual Meeting of the Institute, reports of officers, installation of new officers, presentation of the Liebmann Memorial Prize to Dr. A. Hoyt Taylor of the United States Naval Institute, the series of technical sessions, inspection trips to a number of interesting places around New York and a dinner-dance on the evening of the 11th."
"The Sixth National Exposition of Power and Mechanical Engineering will open December 6, 1927, when 180,000 square feet of Grand Central Palace New York will be utilized in the display of latest mechanical devices. The scope of the exhibit is not confined to the field of heat and power generation and utilization, but will include the allied field of ventilation and other modern problems of great importance. Refrigerating machinery will be represented by a group of fifty manufacturers; mechanical power transmission, welding, machine shop equipment and wood working machinery will also hold conspicuous places in the exposition which will continue through December 10, simultaneously with the Annual Meetings of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the American Society of Refrigerating Engineers."
"Announcement has been made to the Chamber of Commerce of the American Road Builders' Association Convention January 9th to 13th, 1928, at Cleveland, Ohio. Special headquarters will be maintained at the Public Auditorium and at the Hollenden Hotel for visiting city officials, and they are invited to register and make use of headquarters during the Convention. Attendants will be in charge at all times, and William R. Hopkins, City Manager and Chairman of the City Officials' Committee, will gladly receive all inquiries of those interested. This will be the largest exposition of Road construction and road maintenance machinery and materials ever held including over 300 carloads of the latest machinery, equipment and materials. Papers will be presented of special interest to city officials who are urged to attend and take part in the discussion of various subjects presented by carefully selected authorities. There will be a “Pan-American Day” a portion of which will be given over to highway problems in North and South America, and in the evening, the delegates from Pan American countries will be the guests of the American Road Builders' Association at the Annual Banquet. Reservations should be made through Mr. A. J. Kennedy, Vice-Chairman, A. R. B. A. Hotel Committee Room 304, Chamber of Commerce Building, Cleveland, Ohio."
"The Spanish translation of the A. I. E. E. Standard for Electrical Measuring Instruments (No. 33) is now available. This standard applies to the following kind of indicating instruments: Ammeters, voltmeters, wattmeters, reactive volt-ampere meters, frequency meters, power-factor, reactive-factor and phase-angle meters and synchroscopes. It does not apply to curve drawing or contact making instruments nor to small instruments of types and sizes which are used where low cost is essential."
"The exhibit at the 1928 Midwestern Engineering and Power Exposition Chicago, Feb. 14–17, 1928 will be a most forceful representation of progression to meet modern requirements demanded for the convenience of prosperity. It is expected that thousands will be in attendance to review the diversified and unique mechanisms there displayed."
"The Institute has received a cordial invitation from the President and Council of the Institution of Civil Engineers of Great Britain, for members who may be in London early in June 1928 to attend an engineering conference to be held in connection with the celebration of the One Hundreth Anniversary of the issuance to that institution of a royal charter of incorporation. Further particulars of the subjects to be discussed will be available later. In the meantime, however, members of the Institute who are likely to be in London the first week in June 1928 are requested to send their names and addresses to Institute headquarters so that further plans may be communicated directly to them."
"The International Radio-Telegraph Conference, after several plenary sessions, has nearly completed its task of formulating an international treaty covering the uses of radio. The work of the conference will probably be completed before the end of the month, according to the President of the Conference, Herbert Hoover."
"Dr. W. D. Coolidge, assistant director of the research laboratory of the General Electric Company, has been awarded the Hughes medal by the Royal Society for “distinguished work on X-rays and the development of highly efficient apparatus for their production.” The Hughes medal was first presented in 1913 to Dr. Alexander Graham Bell. Dr. Irving Langmuir, also of the General Electric research laboratory, received it in 1918."
"Shortly after Ambrose Swasey suggested the creation of the Engineering Foundation in 1914, the World War broke out, and all eyes were turned to national security problems. In 1916 the newly-organized Engineering Foundation and the four Founder Societies joined with the National Academy of Sciences in establishing the National Research Council. Then, until 1923 the Engineering Foundation devoted the greater part of its resources to the support of the Research Council and the Council's division of engineering; but since then, it has returned to the intention for which it was created, — cooperation with the founder societies in projects affecting engineering at large, still retaining however, its connection with the Research Council."
"On the evening of November 4 in the Engineering Auditorium the members of the New York Section of the A. I. E. E. heard six prominent engineers discuss the future of New York City. The first speaker, E. P. Goodrich, Consulting Engineer on City Planning for the Sage Foundation, had as his subject “Probable Growth of New York City and Distribution of Population,” and devoted himself chiefly to the presentation of a large number of very interesting slides giving growth of population, industry, consumption of products and their inter-relation. The second speaker, R. H. Shreve, President of the New York Building Congress, described “Architectural Requirements and Building Service.” He gave data relative to the factors limiting the size of buildings and mentioned as one of the developments which will possibly aid in the traffic and parking problems, the construction of buildings for office use with certain floors devoted to parking space for the machines of the occupants."
"The American Road Builders Association is offering $1000 in prizes for the best ideas of possible usages for the promotion of safety in the streets and highways. More than 22,000 people were killed in the streets and highways of the United States during the first ten months of 1927, which emphasizes the necessity of further and immediate action in this regard, and this Road Builders association will welcome such suggestions and endorsements as those who may have pertinent ones to offer."
"As a result of his visit to Japan last fall at the time of the Third Pan-Pacific Science Congress, Maurice Holland, Associate of the Institute and Director of the Division of Engineering and Industrial Research of the National Research Council, prepared a brochure upon The Industrial Transition in Japan, which in cooperation with the Japan Society of New York, has just been published in attractive pocket size and given wide distribution among those interested in comparing the remarkable industrial progress of Japan during the last generation with the industrial status of other countries. Also in connection with industrial progress, an exhaustive bibliography of literature of the past several years relating to street and highway safety has been prepared by the Highway Research Board through its chairman, A. B. Fletcher, of the Bureau of Public Roads, and Doctor M. G. Lloyd, Chief of the Safety Section, Bureau of Standards has prepared and had printed a statement on the “Present Status of Legal Regulations of Automobile Headlights in the United States.”"
"A fund of $25,000, the income from which will be applied each year to post graduate work of an electrical engineer from Italy, in an American university, has been established by individuals, associations and corporations in this country who are interested in electrical development, it has been announced by the Italy-America Society. The fund has been raised to mark the one hundredth anniversary of the death of Alessandro Volta, inaugurator of a new era in electricity."
"JOSEPH SOUSA CHARTERS has recently joined the Empresa Cimentos Leira, the largest and most up-to-date Portland cement manufacturers in Portugal."
"Briefly summarizes various recent Institute section meetings."
"Recent student meetings and related events are listed."
"Lists upcoming A.I.E.E. Student Branch meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirtyninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m: on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 6 p. m"
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blvd., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 33 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by nominal contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of $10 for all positions paying a salary of $2000 or less per annum; $10 plus one per cent of all amounts in excess of $2000 per annum; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Index of papers, discussions, reports, etc."
"This paper describes a new copper rod and wire mill located at the Western Electric Company's Plant at Chicago. It includes a brief survey of the copper rolling and wire drawing art at the time the investigation was started; a summary of tests made in varying the practice In rod rolling and wire drawing; and an outline of the work done by the Western Electric Company engineers in developing and designing new types of wire drawing machinery. The rod mill is converting 225 pound wire bars into 1/4″ rod in fourteen instead of the usual eighteen passes. This is accomplished by making heavier reductions in the first four passes while the copper is hot. The new wire mill incorporates many novel features, and the wire drawing machines are more compact in design and of considerably higher speed than those in general use. The design of the wire mill was undertaken following a comprehensive survey of wire drawing processes and equipment used in this country and abroad. Part of this survey consisted of a study of the manufacture of diamond dies, it having been found that dies suitable for high speed drawing required a differently shaped “approach,” a better polish, and a shorter “land,” than those which were available for low speed work. The economies in floor space and plant investment due to the use of more compact and higher speed machinery are outlined. Some of the outstanding features in plant arrangement which contribute to more efficient operation are discussed in the concluding pages."
"[Editorial Note: The frequency analyzers described in this paper and in the paper immediately following, demonstrate in an unusual manner how a single fundamental principle may be employed to accomplish quite dissimilar results. The analyzers described in both papers employ a resonating element of fixed frequency and translate the wave components under study to this frequency by heterodyning them with the output of variable frequency oscillators. In the analyzer described in the first paper, the wave components under study are translated to a higher frequency while in that described in the second paper the translation is downward to a lower frequency. In view of these differences in design it is desirable to call particular attention to the reasons which have led to the working out of the two designs. The analyzer discussed by Moore and Curtis has been so designed as to sweep through the voice frequency range to as high as 5,000 cycles by the manipulation of a single control. To accomplish this end, it was found desirable to heterodyne upward by employing a variable frequency oscillator of considerably higher frequency than 5,000 cycles. The frequency of this oscillator can be varied continuously throughout the range from about 11,000 cycles to 16,000 cycles, and the fixed frequency resonating element is tuned to about 11,000 cycles. As translation of the wave under study to a higher frequency range reduces the percentage separation of the various components, it was necessary to choose a very sharply tuned resonating element. This takes the form of a steel rod which is loosely coupled magnetically to a driving circuit at one end and a registering circuit at the other. As the modulator used to accomplish the heterodyning process produces many frequencies other than the first of the “sum” and “difference” terms, it has been necessary to choose the frequency ranges such that all undesired frequencies which can not be made extremely small will be well removed from the single difference frequency under observation. The analyzer described in the paper by Landeen is capable of working over the range from about 3,000 cycles to 100,000 cycles. A requirement of this design was that very high resolution be obtained. To assist in accomplishing this end, the frequencies under study are translated downward in the frequency scale to the resonating element which consists of a circuit tuned to 800 cycles. This downward translation increases the percentage difference of frequency separation of the components under study. Because of the great range of frequencies covered by the analyzer it is not possible to have sum and difference terms other than those of the second order fall outside of the range of sensitivity of the resonator. The modulator has therefore been so designed as to preclude formation in the higher order terms. To increase its discrimination, the analyzer makes use of two tuned circuits and amplifiers arranged in tandem and placed before the modulator. The frequency to which these circuits are tuned must of course be variable and is set to coincide with the component under study.]"
"In problems concerned with the electrical transmission of intelligence it is necessary to have means for studying complex electric waves In certain steady state conditions these complex waves become periodic, and, although not sinusoidal as a whole, may be resolved into a number of sinusoidal components. It is particularly important to he able to measure these components individually."
"Many of the technical and scientific features of Transatlantic Radio telephony have been discussed individually in considerable detail in engineering papers. Furthermore, through the agency of the newspapers much general information has been published regarding the development of commercial telephone service between the old world and the new. Most of this published material either is sketchy in nature or is concentrated upon some detail of the system and it is difficult to gain from it a connected picture of how the final result was built up through several years of continued effort. The following has been written in an attempt to provide such a connected story."
"The use of combinations of tubes to produce interference between sound waves and a suppression of certain frequencies originates with Herschel (1833), and was applied by Quincke to stop tones of definite pitch from reaching the ear. Following the development of electrical filters, G. W. Stewart showed that combinations of tubes and resonators could be devised which would give transmission characteristics at low frequencies similar to electrical filters. The assumptions made by Stewart in the development of his theory are that no wave motion need be considered in the elements, and that the lengths of the elements employed are small compared to the wave-length of sound. The present paper considers primarily regular combinations of acoustic elements, such as straight tubes, and shows that the equations for recurrent filters, tapered filters and horns can be obtained in this manner. The assumption of no wave motion in the elements, made by Stewart, is removed and also account is taken of the viscosity and heat conduction dissipation. The principal difference between acoustic and electric filters is that the former have an infinite number of bands. The effect of using fitters between varying terminal impedances is also determined. Studying next the combination of filters having the same propagation characteristics but in which the conducting tube areas increase in some regular manner, it is shown that a tapered filter results which has a transforming action in addition to its filtering properties. It is shown that if straight tubes arc employed and the distance between successive changes in areas is made small we obtain the horn equations first developed by Webster. The general combination of acoustic elements is then considered, and a proof of several theorems has been given."
"Magnetism was revealed to Europeans by pieces of a mineral later to be called lodestone, which lay scattered in the fields of Magnesia in Asia Minor, and were endowed with the curious power of attracting iron. They who first noticed it were apparently Greeks of the period before the practice of writing; for legends of the discovery were transmitted by the Greeks of later centuries, legends entangled with tales of Cretan shepherds and the myth of Medea. Electricity was disclosed, evidently in the same dim period and region, by fragments of amber on which friction conferred the remarkable power of attracting shreds and flakes of light materials."
"The Crystal Structure of Magnesium Platlnocyanide Heptahydratev.1 RICIIARD M. BOZORTIf and F. E. HAWORTH. Positions of the Mg and Pt atoms in crystals of MgPt(CN)4 7H2O. These have been definitely determined by means of x-ray oscillating-crystal photographs and Laue photographs, using the theory of space-groups. Because the other atoms are too light in comparison with the metal atoms, especialy Pt, their positions could not be determined. The Pt atoms are located at 0 0 0 and ½ ½ ½ the Mg atoms at 0 0 ½ and ½ ½ 0, in a tetragonal unit of structure 14.6A × 14.6A × 3.13A. Two units of structure are shown in the figure. The peculiar optical properties are believed to be associated with the unusual arrangement of the heavier atoms in widely spaced rows parallel to the tetragonal axis. In these rows Mg atoms alternate with Pt atoms, and the distance hetween any two adjacent atom-centers is 1.57A. The shortest distance between rows, however, is 10.3A, 6.6 times the distance between atoms in the same row. The atomic radii of Mg and Pt as determined by Bragg from other crystal data do not agree with the observed distance between these atoms, the calculated value being 2.7A, the observed distance 1.S7A. The observed distance, however, is consistent with that calculated by the method of Davey, who assumes that the radius of an ionized atom differs much from the radius of the same atom un-ionized, and that the radii of Cs+ and I are substantially equal in crystals of CsI."
"J. R. SHEA, B.S. in E.E., University of Wisconsin, 1909; Manufacturing Department, Western Electric Company, 1909–. Mr. Shea is now Assistant Superintendent of the Manufacturing Development Branch covering metal manufacturing and metallurgical work."
"The study described in this paper shows that the Owen bridge is well adapted to the accurate measurement of inductance and effective resistance to above 3,000 cycles. The construction of a shielded bridge for audio frequencies is described and a theoretical discussion is also given. It was found possible to measure inductances ranging from 0.1 to 3 henrys with an error of measurement less than 0.1 per cent, and for 10 henrys the accuracy is better than 0.25 per cent. As a means of measuring effective resistance the bridge shows an accuracy of about 2 per cent. The sources of error and method of eliminating or correcting them are discussed."
"The use of permalloy for continuous loading has introduced a number of new factors of importance in the study of transmission of signals over long submarine telegraph cables. Data to check the theoretical assumptions that are used in the design of permalloy loaded cables can be obtained by measuring on such cables the attenuation and time of propagation of sinusoidal currents of various frequencies in the telegraph range. By combining the results of these measurements with data obtained on the cable during process of manufacture, the resistance, inductance, capacity and leakance of the cables can be determined. This paper describes the experiments that were performed on three laid cables and discusses in a general way the methods of computing the cable parameters."
"The introduction of the permalloy loaded submarine cable has presented the possibility of telegraph transmission at speeds several times those obtainable on non-loaded cables and has made practicable the operation of printer telegraph equipment. The present paper presents the various factors which affect the design of operating equipment and describes the apparatus which has been developed and used for a considerable period of time under service conditions. The transmission speed attained may exceed 2,400 letters per minute. To a certain extent, the detailed design of the terminal apparatus is controlled by the electrical characteristics of the particular cable to which it is to be applied and this type of equipment cannot, therefore, be completely standardized."
"Vacuum tube amplifiers have been developed for use in submarine telegraph reception and at present are in successful operation on four high speed permalloy cables. There is no limit to the speed at which vacuum tube amplifiers may be operated and in the present stage of development, the rate at which messages may be passed over loaded cables of the length used in the Atlantic Ocean is determined by the cable itself and the mechanical transmitting and receiving apparatus. In regard to maintenance, vacuum tube amplifiers have a great advantage in that they do not require any delicate mechanical adjustments."
"Recent developments in amplifier design tending toward more rigorous quality requirements have shown that the solutions of Van der Bijl and Carson are inadequate for certain purposes since they are based upon a convenient assumption which is not satisfied in fact. In particular, a detailed investigation of carrier current repeaters used for the simultaneous transmission of several channels, and upon which in consequence the modulation or crosstalk requirements arc particularly severe, showed the modulation currents measured to be quite different from those specified by the theory, as was the law of variation of these currents with the circuit constants. The cause of the discrepancy was found to reside in the neglect of the variation of the amplification factor (μ) with both plate and grid potentials. When the actual state of affairs was taken into account in the analysis by the application of a general method involving no assumptions, theory and experiment were found to be in good accord. The new expressions have been developed in terms of the amplification factor (μ), the internal output resistance of the tube (R0), and their differential parameters, which are involved in the representation of the characteristic tube equation by a double power series. Expressions for the current components are developed in terms of the coefficients of the series, and modifications of Miller's method for greater convenience and precision in determinations of tube characteristics are described from which the series coefficients may be evaluated. Conclusions are drawn from the solutions as to desirable tube characteristics by which, for example, a single tube may take the place of two tubes in push-pull connection. Finally, certain properties of different types of tubes under conditions of maximum output power are compared on the basis of μ constant and μ variable."
"I F telephone plants were provided in such quantities that when a subscriber makes a call there would be immediately available such switching arrangements and such trunks or paths to the desired point as may be necessary to establish the connection instantly, it would require that paths and switching facilities be provided to meet the maximum demand occurring at any time, with the result that there would be a large amount of plant not in use most of the time."
"The first section of this paper is devoted to the formal mathematical theory of the propagation of periodic currents over a system of parallel wires energized at its physical terminals only. The theory developed is essentially a generalization of the classical theory of transmission over a single wire (with ground return) or over a balanced metallic circuit. The solution here given furnishes the fundamental formulas and a good deal of information regarding what takes place in a system of parallel wires; for actual calculations, however, the method of treatment is not so well adapted as that developed in the remaining sections of the paper. The second section deals analytically with the problem of propagation over a line or a circuit exposed throughout its length to an arbitrary impressed field of force. The resulting solution is immediately applicable to problems of crosstalk and interference, and to the theory of the wave antenna. The last two sections are devoted to the development and application of a more physical or synthetic method of treatment, based on the substitution of ‘equivalent electromotive forces’ for the arbitrary impressed field. This synthetic treatment, which permits of an intuitive or physical grasp of the various problems, has been found quite useful in dealing with crosstalk and interference, and also with the wave antenna, The method is illustrated (in the last section) by application to two representative problems of a diverse nature."
"Direct Determination of Hydrocarbon in Raw Rubber, Gutta-Percha, and Related Substances.1 A. R. Kemp. Iodochloride in glacial acetic acid is shown to be a suitable reagent to determine the unsaturation of the hydrocarbon in rubber or gutta-percha. The influence of time, temperature, sunlight, and reagent concentration upon the reaction is shown."
"J. G. FERGUSON. B.S., University of California. 1915; M.S., 1916: research assistant in physics, 1915–16; Engineering Department of the Western Electric Company and Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1917–. Mr. Ferguson's work has been in connection with the development of methods of electrical measurement."
"The chief problems presented in the accomplishment of television are discussed. These are: the resolution of the scene into a series of electrical signals of adequate intensity for transmission; the provision of a transmission channel capable of transmitting a wide band of frequencies without distortion; means for utilizing the transmitted signals to re-create the image in a form suitable for viewing by one or more observers; arrangements for the accurate synchronization of the apparatus at the two ends of the transmission channel."
"The design of a television system, once the fundamental principles are understood, involves a detailed consideration of the methods by which the several important functions are to be performed. (1) In the present system the initial signal wave is obtained by sweeping a spot of light over the subject in parallel lines completely scanning it once every 18th of a second. The light reflected is collected by large photoelectric cells which control the transmitted current. At the receiving station the picture current controls the brightness of a neon lamp from which the received image is built up by means of a small aperture moving in synchronism with the spot of light at the transmitting station. For presentation to a large audience television images may be produced by a neon lamp in the form of a grid having a large number of separate electrodes. A high frequency excitation controlled by the picture current is distributed to the successive electrodes in synchronism with the spot of light at the transmitting station. (2) Space and time variations in the reflecting power of the subject are translated into time variations in signal strength. For design purposes these time variations are represented by component frequencies, a minimum band of which must be properly transmitted to insure an adequate reproduction of the image. Within this band there must be maintained a certain degree of uniformity in the efficiency of transmission of the separate components. Also, their phases must not be permitted to shift unduly in relation to each other. (3) The design of the terminal amplifiers is based on the quantitatively determined characteristics of the photoelectric cells and of the neon lamps as well as on the limits imposed by the transmission study and by the characteristics of available transmission media, whether telephone line or radio system. The circuits employed at the transmitting station furnish an amplification such that the power delivered to the transmission medium is 1015 times the power received from the photoelectric cells."
"Synchronization of Television is the problem of holding two scanning disks so that their phase displacement is always less than four and one third minutes of arc. A 240-pole synchronous motor of the variable reluctance type is used as a basis. Coupled to it a direct current motor carries the steady component of the load. Hunting is eliminated by a condenser in series with the two synchronous motors whose capacitance is slightly less than that required to tune the circuit. As the motor might lock into step in any of 120 possible angular positions, only one of which would give the proper phase relations, a two-pole motor, with only one locking position, was provided by tapping the armature of the direct current motor at two points and bringing out the leads to slip rings. This was used for synchronizing white the 240-pole motor, connected subsequently, held the close synchronism required. The disks rotate at 1062.5 r.p.m. which gives 17.7 cycles on the two-pole and 2125 cycles on the 240-pole motor. For transmission the synchronizing current is attenuated to a level of .6 milliwatt and amplified at the receiving end. The 17.7-cycle current is an undesirably low frequency for transmission over telephone cables and so is used to modulate a 760-cycle current through a polarized relay. This is demodulated at the receiving end, where a polarized relay by interrupting a local battery current gives a rectangular wave which acts through vacuum tubes on the field of the direct-current motor."
"This paper deals with the transmission problems which were met and solved in connection with providing wire circuits from Washington to New York for the television demonstrations which took place on April 7, 1927, and following. For transmission of the television images a single transmission channel was set up combining the frequency ranges usually assigned to telegraph, telephone and certain carrier channels. The special line requirements were met so successfully that the television images transmitted from Washington were indistinguishable from those transmitted locally."
"Starting from the general requirements imposed on the transmitting medium, this paper discusses the engineering of a radio system for television purposes and describes the radio facilities actually employed for the recent Bell System demonstration. The tests to which the system was submitted to determine its suitability are outlined and the measured frequency-response characteristics are shown. An interesting phenomenon due to multi-path transmission, the production of positive and negative secondary images, is reported. A brief series of experiments concerned with the transmission of both voice and image “on a single wave-length” is also described."
"In a period when a limited domain of physical phenomena is exciting wide fervent interest and commanding intensive study, and continues for years to monopolize the attention of many brilliant theorists, sometimes it is the fortune of an ingenious mind to express or interpret or picture the already-discovered laws in a new way which makes so greatly favourable an impression, that in a moment it sweeps its rivals from the field. The new theory may not lead to more or better agreements with experience than did its predecessors; it need not make predictions which they were incapable of making; its mathematical processes may be identical with theirs, the old symbols reappearing with new names in the old equations. Contrariwise it may be born well endowed with these advantages which normally decide the contest between old theories and new, yet owe its victory not to them at all. It triumphs because it seems natural or sensible or reasonable or elegant or beautiful-words said of a theory which fulfils some deep-seated demand or evades some deep-rooted prejudice in the minds of its judges. Later its vogue may pass, not through the disclosure of any intrinsic defect, but because the physicists of the rising generation do not share the prejudices and the predilections of those who first applauded it. The kinetic theory of gases was welcomed by a generation which wished to believe in atoms; the electromagnetic theory by people prejudiced against the notion of action at a distance; the quantum-theory has always had to do battle against those who yearn for continuity in their images of Nature, and the theory to which these pages are devoted has captivated the world of physics in a few brief months because it seems to promise a fulfilment of that long-baffled and insuppressible desire."
"The present paper gives a brief discussion of some of the more important problems connected with the supplying of power to telephone offices, and developments which are being perfected to bring about economies. Among the subjects discussed are the use of commercial types of charging generators together with appropriate filters, power factor correction, complete power unit assemblies for small installations, and the development of more nearly automatically controlled power installations with the object of reducing supervision."
"A MANUFACTURER is interested in producing a controlled product-one in which the deviations about the average level of quality are no larger than can be accounted for as a result of chance. The present paper gives simple detailed methods for determining from inspection data whether or not a product is being controlled in the sense of indicating the presence of assignable causes of variation. Naturally the inspection data constitutes a sample of the effects of the manufacturing causes and hence the interpretation of these data in terms of what may be expected in the future is a statistical problem."
"This paper discusses the special provisions which are in use on the transatlantic telephone to compensate for the variability of the wire and ether paths, for the radio noise, and for the fact that two-way transmission is effected upon a single wave-length. So-called technical operators are in attendance at each end of the radio path and are equipped to adjust the magnitude of the speech currents entering the radio transmitters to such a value as to load these transmitters to capacity. The amplification introduced at the radio receivers can also be adjusted to compensate for changes in the transmission efficiency of the radio paths. Finally, voice-operated relays together with suitable delay circuits are provided which so control the apparatus that at any given time it can transmit in but one direction. By this arrangement, a speaker's voice upon leaving his transmitting station cannot operate his own receiver although this is tuned to the transmitting wave-length."
"Thermal Agitation ill Conductors.1 H. NYQUIST. At the December, 1926, meeting of the American Physical Society, J. B. Johnson reported the discovery and measurement of an e.m.f, due to the thermal agitation in conductors. The present paper outlines a theoretical derivation of this effect. A non-dissipative transmission line is brought into thermodynamic equilibrium with conductors of a definite temperature. The line is then isolated and its energy investigated statistically. The resultant formula is Ev2 dv = 4kTRdv for the r.m.s. e.m.f, Ev contributed in a frequency range one cycle wide by a network whose resistance component at the frequency v is R. T and k are the absolute temperature and the Boltzmann constant. Experimental data are available for the audible range and there the agreement between the formula and the data is good. It will be observed that neither the charge nor mass nor any other property of the carrier of electricity enters the formula explicitly. They enter indirectly through R. The formula above is based on the equipartition law."
"Herbert E. Ives, B.S., University of Pennsylvania, 1905; Ph.D., Johns Hopkins, 1908; assistant and assistant physicist, Bureau of Standards, 1908–09; physicist, Nela Research Laboratory, Cleveland, 1909–12; physicist. United Gas Improvement Company, Philadelphia, 1912–18; U. S. Army Air Service, 1918–19; research engineer, Western Electric Company and Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1919 to date. Dr. Ives' work has had to do principally with the production, measurement and utilization of light."
"The familiar equations which are used to solve for the currents and charges in linear networks summarize the inductive analysis of countless observations made upon such networks. Having been arrived at by inductive methods, these familiar equations of Ohm, Faraday and Kirchhoff are substantially independent of the more general electromagnetic theory of Maxwell and Lorentz. The present paper examines the foundation of electric circuit theory from the standpoint of the fundamental equations of electromagnetic theory and a derivation of the former from the latter is made, in the course of which the assumptions, approximations and restrictions tacitly involved in the equations of circuit theory are explicitly stated. The treatment is sufficiently extended as to show how the familiar equation for the simple oscillating circuit and the so-called telegraph equation can be deduced from the Maxwell-Lorentz statement of electromagnetic theory."
"In the early days of telephony the toll signaling apparatus consisted of a magnetic drop in the line and a drop or ringer in the cord. With the advent of common battery signaling in the local plant, relays and lamps replaced the old type drops and the subscriber was given means for calling the toll operator on a to)) connection by operating the switchhook instead of ringing. Up to this time the toll operators were located at the local switchboard and had direct access to the subscriber's line, but with the growth of toll and local traffic, it was no longer economical to place the toll operators at the local board. This led to the development of a separate toll switchboard called the No.1 board, which had access to the subscriber's line over switching trunks between the toll and local boards. For many years the No.1 switchboard filled the needs of the time but with the expansion of the toll service and the growth of machine switching local service, it became evident that new arrangements were desirable. The No.3 toll switchboard was developed to meet the new requirements and it has the following advantages as new installations are required."
"Improved methods have recently been developed for the location of opens in toll cable conductors. The discussion of these methods is prefaced by a review of older practices. This improved open location method and equipment are sufficiently accurate that in practically all cases a fault in a 60-mile length of cable may be located within a maximum variation of plus or minus one half the length of a cable section (a section is the length of cable between splices — about 750 feet), and therefore enables one to select, prior to the opening of the cable, one or the other of the two splices between which the fault lies. This degree of accuracy is very desirable for practical reasons. In this development, the line characteristics are considered. The accuracies of calculated locations, assuming no errors in measurements, arc compared for different lengths of lines. The impedance bridge circuit is treated to bring out the method of obtaining a balance. The effects of several frequencies of testing potential are analyzed. The probable errors and inaccuracies of measurement which would interfere with the correct location of faults are classified and methods for their correction are developed. The accuracy of the method and the sensitivity of the apparatus are given."
"IN the vear 1896, which fell near the beginning of the great transformation of modern physics. Henri Becquerel heard that Roentgen had discovered strange rays proceeding from an electric dischargetube while the discharge was passing and the glass walls of the tube were phosphorescing. Suspecting that the new rays were connected with the phosphorescence. Becquerel tested samples of some of the substances which naturally phosphoresce. It happened that one which he tested was a compound of uranium. He wrapped the sample in paper to shut in the light of its phosphorescence. and set it beside a photographic plate; for the rays of Roentgen had disclosed themselves by acting on such plates. Becquerel had made a happy guess; for the compound affected the plate. Yet his original idea was altogether wrong; for the effect had nothing to do with the phosphorescence of the compound, it was due to the uranium itself and faithfully reappeared when other and non-phosphorescent compounds were used instead, and even when a piece of the pure metal was set beside the plate. It was an instance of a fallacious idea having guided a keen observer to a great discovery-not the first in the history of physics, and assuredly not the last."
"Comparative studies based on oscillographic records of the principal characteristics of vowel, semi-vowel, and consonant sounds, have contributed much to an understanding of the mechanism of speech. Analyses of the frequency spectra of vowels show almost invariably two principal resonance peaks which fact is suggestive of a double resonator to produce them. The present paper is concerned with the mechanism of the double resonator system and a mathematical treatment thereof. Based on the volume, shape and coupling of the resonating chambers, some models of cardboard, tube and plasticene were made, and with which some experimental tests in the production of vowels were carried out. The best success was had with the sound ä (father) while fair results were obtained with the sound ō, ă and ě."
"1. Radio broadcasting involves a system of electrical distribution in which dependent relations exist between the transmitting station, the transmitting medium and the receiving station. 2. The attenuation and fading which attend the spreading out of broadcast waves arc considered. The attenuation of overland transmission is shown to be, on the whole, very high and to vary over a wide range depending upon the terrain which is traversed. The distance at which the fading of signals occurs is found to be that at which the normal directly transmitted waves have become greatly attenuated and to depend upon the terrain traversed. 3. A field strength contour map is given of the measured distribution of waves broadcast by Station WEAF over the New York metropolitan area. A rough correlation is given between measured field strengths and the serviceability of the reception in yielding high grade reproduction. The range of a station as estimated in terms of year-round reliability is found to be relatively small. It becomes clear that the present radio broadcasting art is upon too low a power level and that higher powered stations are required if reliable year-round reception is to be had at distances as short even as 30 to 50 miles from the transmitting station. 4. The question of the preferred location of a transmitting station with respect to a city area is considered. It is shown that an antenna located upon a tall building may radiate poorly at certain wave-lengths and well at others. Surveys are presented of the distribution effected by an experimental transmitting station located in each of several suburban points. The locations are compared upon the basis of the “coverage” of receiving sets which they effect. 5. Finally, there is considered the relation which exists in respect to interference between a plurality of broadcast transmitting stations operating in the same service area. The importance of high selectivity in receiving sets is emphasized and there is given the measured selectivity characteristics for samples of a number of receiving sets."
"A shielded, a-c., inductance bridge adapted to the measurement of inductive impedances at frequencies up to 50,000 cycles is described. The bridge comprises a balancing unit and associated standards of inductance and resistance. The balancing unit has resistance ratio arms specially constructed to meet the requirements imposed by the above frequency range. The reference standard makes use of inductance coils of a new type, their cores being of magnetic instead of non-magnetic material as is usually the case. The use of such cores results in coils that are smaller and hence better adapted to assembly in a multiple shielded standard. The bridge is completely shielded so as to eliminate, to a high degree, errors due to parasitic capacitance currents. The shielding is also arranged so as to permit the correct measurement of either “grounded” or “balanced-to-ground” impedances. A series of diagrams is shown for the purpose of indicating the function of each part of the shielding system. Equations expressing the errors resulting from any small residual capacitance unbalances in the resultant bridge network arc given and calculations made of the balances required for the desired degree of measurement precision. Test data are presented illustrating a method of experimentally checking the residual shunt and series balances from which it is concluded that the bridge is capable of comparing two equal inductive impedances of large phase angle with an accuracy at the maximum frequency of 0.02 per cent for inductance and 1.0 per cent for resistance."
"In a number of valuable and interesting contributions to this Journal, Dr. W. A. Shewhart has made an extended use of the infinite series of Gram. With all the controversy that at present is going on between the pure empiricists, attempting on the one hand to dragoon statistical analysis into a mere inductio per simplicem enumerationem, and the a priori theorists on the other hand, who claim that statistical methods so-called are nothing more than simple and evident applications of well-known principles of the probability calculus as formulated by Laplace, it has been a source of satisfaction to me to note that Dr. Shewhart apparently has given the latter methods a place of preference over the methods of the out and out empiricists."
"Loading for Telephone Cable Circuits.1 D. W. WHITNIEY. This paper summarizes the principal characteristics of the loaded telephone line and discusses the major improvements in loading. Up to 1900 there was a general avoidance of the use of cable in the toll telephone plant, due to the high attenuation and distortion of speech currents not experienced in open wire lines. By the use of the loading coil and the telephone repeater, a network of toll cables has grown very rapidly which now connects the large population centers of the Atlantic seaboard and the upper Mississippi Valley region."
"JOHN R. CARSO, B.S., Princeton, 1907; E.E., 1909; M.S., 1912; Research Department, Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, 1910–12; instructor of physics and electrical engineering, Princeton, 1912–14; American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Engineering Department, 1914–15; Patent Department, 1916–17; Engineering Department, 1918; Department of Development and Research, 1919–. Mr. Carson's work has been along theoretical lines and he has published several papers on theory of electric circuits and electric wave propagation."
"Thomas A. Edison, when quizzed on his eightieth birthday as to the future of motion pictures, replied, “onward and upward.” He struck the key note of the industry. One need not stretch the imagination far to paint a picture of the future in which sound synchronization, television, and stereoscopic principles are combined to give super-entertainment and service. Some day we may sit at home and see a great play, enacted in a magnificent theater in a distant city, projected in relief, and hear the words of the actors and the musical accompaniment. Instead of “tuning in” on our favorite musical entertainment, we may turn to our favorite play. Just what the future holds in store is a matter of conjecture, but it is certain that we are traveling “onward and upward.”"
"The Advertising and publicity Committees were combined this year and it is obvious that this has meant considerably more work for those on the single committee. In spite of this, however, and many important changes in the equipment field which have reduced the number of concerns who helped us out in the past, the amount of advertising in the Transactions compares favorably with that printed other years. All advertising in the Transactions is given as a matter of good will and members of this organization are asked to help the Committee in the work of securing advertising for our publications. Personal solicitation by members of the Committee is a difficult matter and letters are cold and ineffective. The Society needs the funds secured through publishing a limited number of advertisements in the Transactions and if our members will say a good word for us the advertising departments of the companies they represent may be more willing to take space in our publications. The companies who have taken space are entitled to the appreciation of this Society and the Committee hopes that members of the S.M.P.E. will do everything possible to reciprocate."
"One of the main difficulties encountered by the Committee is the remoteness of the printers, causing a lapse of at least a week before an answer can be received to any communication. Actually more time has been consumed in the transit of matter etc. than in the actual printing. This entails an inevitable delay in the appearance of the Transactions. Some slight improvement has been made in an earlier publication and more important still the root of the previous delays has been run to earth. It is, therefore, hoped that succeeding issues may appear somewhat more promptly after the meetings, particularly with the promised whole-hearted support of the Papers Committee to this end."
"The clerical work of any membership committee is interesting and not arduous. Whether a great increase in membership is secured is dependent on the new sources of possible members known to individuals on the Committee. During the past six months only one new source has been discovered and this by Mr. L. C. Porter. Mr. Porter had the great notion of sending in to the Committee the names of all persons inquiring for Transactions so that they might be circularized with the Society's literature. At least fifteen new members have been secured in this manner. Of the remainder eight more have come in by introductions from existing members of the Society, and four are in the process of admission. This makes an effective increase of twenty-seven."
"Perhaps the most striking occurrence since the last meeting of the Society, one which has affected the entire industry and which promises to leave a permanent impression, is the wave of economy that struck the motion picture studios late last spring. Appearing first in the form of threatened salary cuts1 which met with furious opposition from those affected, it rebounded and swept over the managements and their production practices. Criticism of the wasteful production methods in vogue was incited and various methods of reducing costs were discussed. At a meeting of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences a comprehensive agreement was reached, involving producers, writers, directors, actors, and all other studio workers, whereby it is expected that a noticeable decrease in studio costs will be evidenced.2"
"At the Norfolk meeting of the Society the sprocket dimensions in accordance with the general plan of Mr. J. G. Jones had first approval as follows: — The take-up sprocket, which is a hold back sprocket on a motion picture projector, should be designed to have the same pitch as the perforations on film which has shrunk to the maximum amount occurring with films in commerically useful condition as supplied by exchanges. — The feed and intermittent sprockets are to have a pitch equal to that of the sprocket holes in newly finished film. — The Committee finds that, the maximum shrinkage of useful film is 1.5% and recommends a take-up sprocket designed accordingly. The shrinkage of newly processed film, for which the feed and intermittent are designed, is 0.13%. These latter sprockets, as has already been shown, will accommodate film shrunk as much as 2.92% without damage. Dimensions of sprockets to produce these results are illustrated in Charts A, B, and C. (pp. 407. 408 in No. 29 Transactions.)"
"For the year which has passed since I last addressed your body I have only one fundamental change in policy to report. All the rest of what I have to say today represents continued development of policies already in effect a year ago. This one change is the elimination of the split week and the adoption in its place of a double feature program."
"The general subject of the making and showing of motion pictures in synchronism with sound has been covered recently by papers presented before this society at the last two successive meetings and also in recent articles appearing in many of the current trade and scientific publications. The conception of the idea of sound motion pictures is not new, but practical commercialization of the art has been dependent upon the perfection of sound transmission apparatus and the solution of problems relating to various vital parts of the whole system."
"The desire to make a simultaneous record of sounds and actions is not new. As long ago as February 1888, Muybridge conferred with Edison as to the practicability of using the zoöpraxiscope “in association with the phonograph so as to combine and reproduce simultaneously, in the presence of an audience, visible action and audible words.” The phonograph was then less than eleven years old and had not been adapted to reach the ears of a large audience, so the scheme was temporarily abandoned. Although space does not permit a review of the progress of the art since the early days, it is generally agreed now that the ultimate method of sound recording consists in utilizing a narrow strip of the film itself for the sound record. This scheme avoids nearly all opportunity for lack of synchronism between the sound and action and at the same time provides a simple method for the removal of an entire scene when desired."
"Speed indicators when first used on projectors in motion picture theaters were considered a luxury and were only to be found in a few of the best first-run houses. The advantages to be gained by the use of accurate speed indicators or tachometers soon became apparent, however, and today the projectors in nearly every first-run house are equipped with them. It is only by the use of tachometers that the modern theater is able to maintain an exact schedule; that the projectionist is able to run his projector at a definite, constant, speed which will give the best results on the screen; and that the orchestra leader is able to correctly time his score; but it is not only on projectors that tachometers have made possible improvements in technique which would otherwise have been impossible."
"The question implied by the title chosen for this paper might be answered with absolute finality and correctness merely by saying: To the end that the work of projection be done efficiently."
"At Present there are four types of illumination in general use for motion picture projection. They are as follows: (1) The straight arc with 4½-inch diameter condensers. (2) The mazda lamp with condensers. (3) The high intensity arc with 4½-inch diameter condensers. (4) The low intensity reflector arc."
"When freshly developed or so-called “green” motion picture film is passed through a projector, there is a tendency for an incrustation to accumulate on the aperture plate or tension springs which retards the free passage of the film through the machine. Chemical analysis has shown that this incrustation consists largely of gelatin with more or less silver, dirt, and oil, but it contains usually only a trace of the metal or alloy of which the gate is composed."
"There are three chief reasons why motion pictures have not come into general use as an agency in classroom instruction. These are: (1) Few motion pictures adapted to classroom service have been produced. (2) The cost of the necessary equipment and the cost of production and distribution have rendered motion pictures prohibitive for classroom service. (3) Teachers generally arc unfamiliar with the use of motion picture apparatus and with the use of film, and there is more or less feeling on their part that some embarrassment might follow an attempt to use them."
"A Gentleman (not myself) recently obtained an interview with the manager of a large picture corporation in Hollywood. He explained to his host that while the corporation's films were excellent, everything about the business direction and technical economy was bad; that this should be altered here and that changed there; that one man required dismissal and that another should be elevated to a position of command; finally, that what the company really needed was an engineering economist, of first class ability and reputation (himself) to set and keep things in order."
"This is not a learned technical paper. I simply am going to tell you about some of the fundamentals of Radio Movies and Radio Vision for home entertainment."
"Realizing the importance of the dissolving shutter on professional cameras, 1 have devised the following simple types to be used on amateur cameras which have not been fitted with such devices primarily because of the added cost of manufacture."
"Like so many of the good things of present day industry the light source described in this paper is the product of the work of a number of different investigators over a considerable period of years. The principle is not new, but it is only with increased knowledge and with improved materials of recent times that the present results have been possible."
"The field covered by this title is so large, that I have selected for this paper samples of only four of the many lines along which this work is pursued at the East Coast Studios of Famous Players-Lasky Corporation"
"Since the image upon the screen of the theater represents and is the finished product of the motion picture industry displayed for purchase by the amusement buying public, and since this is the only goods of any sort which the industry has for sale, it seems eminently fitting and proper that we spend a few moments in consideration of the faults most commonly found therein, and in examining into the possibilities for at least their partial correction, if their complete elimination is deemed not practicable."
"When a motion picture is viewed at a relatively short distance from the screen the various tones of the image are seen to consist of an agglomeration of small particles which appear to be in a state of boiling or scintillation. This lack of homogeneity of the tones of the picture is known as graininess, and for a given image is more apparent the greater the degree of enlargement and the shorter the distance of the observer from the screen."
"Make-Up for the Movies is a greatly misunderstood art. Unfortunately the dramatic or speaking stage has had such an effect on the silent drama that nearly all of the artistes for the latter have been impregnated with wrong ideas as to the purpose of makeup"
"The lenses used for the projection of both lantern slides and motion pictures are unique in the realm of optical instruments in their apparent insusceptibility to marked improvement. Within the last fifty years no kind of lens or other optical instrument has failed to receive the meticulous scrutiny of experienced and ingenious designers with a result which is a record of more or less continuous improvement. In projection lenses, on the other hand, there are two standard types which, although one of them is almost as old as photography and the other is beginning to assume an air of respectable old age, appear to meet the requirements of all kinds of projection in a fashion so satisfactory that noteworthy improvements have seemed to have been impossible. The records show not more than seven or eight patents granted on lenses said to be designed for projection and many of these admit reduction of cost rather than improved performance to have been the principal object of the inyention."
"The reasons that make it desirable for the motion picture studio to employ large floodlighting units are the high levels of illumination required for high speed photography and the peculiar sensitivity characteristic of the photographic film. These two factors indicate the use of a high intensity arc, and there is a national tendency to take the high intensity searchlight just ae it has been developed for military service and by refocusing got a beam of wide spread. The defects of this method are illustrated and it is shown that a more suitable optical arrangement is to use apolygonal mirror rather than aparaboloid. The method ofcomputing the dimensions of the polygons is given along with data on a photometric comparison of the two types of reflectors."
"Raymond Sylvester Peck waa born at Ridgetown, Ontario, Canada, on February 2, 1886. He was one of the six children of Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Peck, the former a well known hotel man in that district. He waa a member of one of the oldest and best known families in the southwestern section of Ontario"
"In a previous communication1 the use of panchromatic film for motion picture purposes was discussed at some length. The fundamental principles involved in the photographic reproduction of the tonal scale, that is brightness and brightness differences, in the case of colored objects were outlined and attention called to some of the advantages arising from the use of panchromatic film for this purpose. The use of light filters was mentioned briefly but no attempt was made to deal with this subject in detail. Since a thorough understanding of the nature of light filters and their use for obtaining a desired effect is essential to the attainment of the best results in the application of panchronlatic film to various problems confronting the photographic worker, it seems desirable at this time to present a somewhat more complete and detailed treatment of the subject. Believing firmly in the premise that the nearest approach to perfection in the practice of a science can be attained with greatest facility and certainty through an adequate knowledge of the theoretical aspects of the subject, the first part of this paper will be devoted to a discussion of some of the fundamental principles involved in the use of light filters. In the latter part the more practical phases of the subject will be dealt with and some data relative to the use of light filters will be given."
"The subject I will present has to do with the conservation activities of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America. I don't know how much of an opportunity you gentlemen have had to acquaint yourselves with the ways and means Will H. Hays has taken to conserve the resources of this industry, with which you are so directly allied."
"Motion picture programs today, especially as found in many of the de luxe houses, represent a combination of the earlier “straight movie” show with a trimming of vaudeville numbers formed againat a musical background provided by an organ, orchestra, or stage band."
"Motion photography had its inception in an effort to solve a scientific controversy—for Muybridge made his epochmarking trotting-horse pictures in an effort to determine the nature of the horse's leg-movements. It is also true that the pictures were made in order to settle a bet—but discussion of that phase of the subject must be left to some devotee of Lady Luck who may in the future present before this body a learned dissertation upon “Motion Pictures as first-aid to the Gambler; or African Golf—in seven parts.”"
"The brief paper which I now submit is supplementary to the one which I presented at the last Washington meeting of the Society, and is essentially a report of progress. In the former paper I stressed the fact that I started out with the idea of producing color motion picture films of satisfactory quality on ordinary positive motion picture film, and by the simplest and most direct means possible, and that I have consistently adhered to this scheme. I have continued experiments with a view to further simplification and speed of operation."
"The use of the motion picture camera with the microscope is by no means a new thing. The work of Comandon, Chevraton, Rosenberger, and others is well enough known so that the advantages of this combination need only brief mention. In educational work the motion picture offers an unapproachable method of presenting microscopic subjects before an audience—a method which is much more successful than microscopic projection or demonstration by means of the double lens oculars. In research, the motion picture camera can often take the place of a trained observer saving him many tedious hours over the microscope. In some cases a motion picture record offers an improvement over visual study by either slowing down or accelerating the action of a microscopic subject. It is possible by regulation of taking speed to analyze the mechanism of changes which can only be surmised by the visual method of study."
"Films are now being processed by continuous moving systems in great quantities. The automatic developing, dyeing, toning and imbibition machines are examples. In most of these systems, it is desirable to visually examine the work, as it progresses, and while the film is wet. This is especially so where coloring or registration of two images is concerned, and the operator needs to know if he has made any errors in keeping the films in step. Also in a system for applying colors, where the amount of color applied is under the control and judgment of the operator, he needs to quickly know his results."
"In approaching the problem of better pictures, some people are so inclined to lose themselves in the possibilities of cinema as an art, that they forget the obligations of cinema as a public and popular institution. Others again are so abandoned to the doctrine that cinema is an “entertainment business,” that they fail to insist on the development of the medium and the deepening of the appeal. It has seemed to me that I might be able to combine both positions. I begin my notes with an analysis of the limitations imposed on cinema production by the box office, and I proceed then to an indication of some of the greater things that might be clone within these limitations. In this way I hope to avoid the usual comment offered by cinema executives: that critics forget the practical side of the business and ignore public wants."
"This paper describes the use and care of motion picture negative film which is to be exposed in tropical countries and far away from the home laboratory."
"At the present time quite a number of different methods are known how to record and reproduce sound waves for the purpose of the so-called talking film. With most of these methods the sound variations are photographed on a moving film-strip. Corresponding pictures and sounds being recorded on one common carrier, the synchronized reproduction of both picture and sound records can never be questioned."
"The use of miniatures in motion picture productions, where a part of the scene is normal action, and part built to a smaller scale, especially where there is action in both exposures, has called for a positive acting high speed movement."
"It is very necessary to remove all excess moisture from motion picture film after washing and before drying in order to prevent the possible formation of markings during drying.1 This is especially true if the gelatin coating of the film is abnormally swollen, which condition may exist in warm weather if the processing solutions are not kept at normal temperatures or if the film is insufficiently hardened either before or during fixation."
"It is necessary to clean motion picture film at various stages in its progress from the laboratory to the theatre to remove: (1) Dirt on the base side of negative or positive film; (2) Dirt or grease which may accumulate on negative film during printing; (3) Dirt and oil which accumulates on positive film during projection."
"Vitaphone is a trade name applied to one method of making and reproducing sound motion pictures. By sound motion pictures we mean the reproduction of scenes in proper timed relation with the reproduction of the natural sounds accompanying the scene or with other sounds designed to produce a desired effect. The sounds may be spoken words, vocal or instrumental music or some form of noise, such as the roar of a passing train, the crash of real or artificial thunder, the squeak of a wheel, the buzz of a bee or a saw, or in fact any air vibration which the ear recognizes. The reproduction of scenes in proper timed relation with the sound naturally involves the recording of both scene and sound in such a way that the proper time relation may be maintained during reproduction."
"In Supplying artificial illumination for a motion picture studio the primary consideration is to secure the quantity and quality of light that will have the desired effect on the film. This subject has been dealt with in many papers and discussions. In the present paper the effect of the light on the actors rather than the film will be considered. I wish to call your attention to two of the many known physiological effects of light on human beings. Many physicians have become interested in these physiological effects in the last five years. Their research work has enabled us to form certain definite ideas that might be important in some applications of light in studios."
"Some attempt has been made to collect a few patents relating to this subject, mainly it must be confessed from English sources. To make a complete list of the patents of all countries would need rather more time than I have had a chance to give to it."
"During the past six years approximately two hundred theaters in cities well distributed throughout the United States have invested in air conditioning systems. This equipment is distinguished from the ordinary fan ventilation and heating equipment by the fact that it provides for cooling the air during the summer and, what is even more important, offers means of effectively establishing and controlling the condition of humidity."
"In this paper no attempt is made to give a complete analysis of the low pressure mercury lamp, but attention is confined to a few of the characteristics that are of most importance to the user of the lamp. A brief description of the physical construction of the lamps used in the test work is followed by a spectrophotometric determination of the energy distribution in the spectrum. Data on tube brilliancy and on causes of depreciation are given in their relation to photometric outputs, and some typical figures for tube life are discussed. The photometric distribution curves of both A.C. and D.C. lamps are given, both as bare tubes and as units complete with reflectors. The section on electrical characteristics gives some recent test data, and several of the most important reactions of the tube to ambient temperature are used to call attention to the factors to be watched during photometric tests. The concluding section gives briefly some of the conflicting phenomena that have contributed not a little to the present uncertainty about the reactions of the human eye under this light."
"Regarding the effects of the method of studio illumination upon the health of the actors and other studio employees, the subject is an intricate one which has many obscure ramifications. A complete statement of these conditions would necessarily involve an elaborate study from the standpoint of the Illuminating Engineer, the physiologist and a careful statistical medical investigation. There are, however, certain features which are so well known by the personal experience of everyone who has dealt with are lamps that definite recommendations as to procedure in order to prevent any severe and immediately dangerous results in the use of are lamps can be made at the present time."
"In A previous communication1 the use of panchromatic negative film for motion picture work was discussed at some length, and the many advantages arising from the use of this material in the reproduction of scenes consisting of collections of variously colored objects was emphasized. In a later communication2 the subject of characteristics of light filters and methods of using them to obtain any desired rendering of colored objects was treated. In these papers attention was directed chiefly to the exposition of fundamental laws and theoretical relationships which determined the quality of tone reproduction obtained when a series of colored objects is rendered by a photographic process as a series of brightness values entirely lacking in differentiated hue and saturation factors. Reasoning from these established relationships, certain qualitative conclusions relative to the photographic rendition of colored objects were drawn, but no data of a quantitative character relative to the subject were given. For instance, it is evident from a consideration of the spectral sensitivity of photographic materials and the spectral sensibility (visibility) of the eye that while a red object may have a very high visual brightness and hence be equivalent visually to a gray near the white end of gray scale, this same red object when rendered by means of ortho-chromatic film will have a low photographic brightness and hence will be rendered in the photographic reproduction near the black end of the tonal scale. Likewise, from a consideration of the spectral sensitivity of panchromatic film, it is apparent that this same red object when rendered by means of panchromatic film should have a much higher photographic brightness and therefore lie nearer to the white end of the gray scale and hence be rendered more nearly as it is seen visually. From the data already given relative to the spectral sensitivity of photographic materials, quality of light, and reflection characteristics of colored objects, it is possible to draw many such qualitative conclusions."
"The general use of panchromatic negative film for the taking of motion pictures has introduced into the studios new problems in general illumination of the sets which in time will, no doubt, necessitate a change in present day lighting equipment."
"The accurate reproduction of object contrast by the lens image is the optical desideratum in photography. To fulfill this requirement, it is necessary that each area in the image shall receive light from only the corresponding area of the object. If any light other than true image-forming light falls onto the image, the contrast relations will be altered. A uniform distribution of non-image forming light over the image results in a decrease of image contrast."
"The animated technical drawing or technigraph is a recent development which has grown out of the animated cartoon. Its chief use is to illustrate by means of motion the operation of devices and machinery while providing in text and action technical descriptions of the same, and in addition it finds a steadily increasing use in other phases of that type of motion picture which is classified as “educational.”"
"A densitometer based on the inverse square law was described before this Society at the meeting held at Ottawa in 19231 While this instrument has proved eminently satisfactory, it was deemed advisable to construct a densitometer which would be more portable and would be relatively inexpensive."
"From time to time during the past twenty years, the idea of using colored borders to frame the projected motion picture has been brought forth. This has been advocated by several different people and has had as many different reasons presented for its use. One of the first was that daylight projection could be obtained in this manner. The promotors of this idea claimed that when projecting a border they were at the same time projecting a shadow on the screen which the theater lights could not penetrate, because the theater lights were less brilliant than the beam of projected border light. In reality the only reason this system lasted as long as it did was that the men who installed it were just a little better educated in the problems of projection than the average. For this reason they were able in most cases to raise the illumination of the projected picture far enough above the average that had been used in that particular theater, so that more house lights could be used without blotting out the picture. This system was quite popular in many of our combination vaudeville and picture theaters about 1909–1910. The fallacy of this idea was quickly proved, as knowledge of projection became more widely distributed and as equipment was improved, so as to permit of better illuminated pictures. The above system was usually accomplished by using a metal cut-out slide because considerable trouble was encountered by the slides cracking if made of glass. From time to time since then, many people have practised projecting colored or elaborately designed borders around the pictures. Some claimed that it relieved eye strain, while others, who I believe were a trifle more conscientious, claimed that it was merely for decoration and to give a pleasing result to the audiences."
"Some of the present day major problems of the projectionist and the needs for improvement in certain phases of projection practice are not new problems or new needs. That they are not new, however, should make them of no less concern to us, so long as they continue to exist, than should new developments of no greater import."
"The necessity for adjusting the acoustics of motion picture theaters has not arisen so often nor so seriously as in the case of churches and other auditoriums. This is because motion pictures are usually accompanied only by organ music, which does not present so great an acoustical problem as speaking. In some cases, however, in addition to the motion pictures, there are songs and speaking numbers, educational addresses or other features, so that it becomes increasingly important that such theaters be adjusted to have good acoustics. There is also to be considered the development of the talking motion picture, which depends markedly for its success on a room properly designed for speaking."
"It seems peculiar that motion picture engineers have overlooked the aid which might be obtained from the other arts and be used to overcome some of the troubles encountered in our work. Several of such combinations have occurred to me and a few have already been adopted. I propose to lay some of these ideas before you, as they may perhaps suggest other helpful applications."
"In order to make the purpose of this paper clear, I will first define “trick photographer.” This unfortunately is the nearest term that I know for describing the person in a big studio who is called upon to do the parts of a production which are out of the usual run. In the word “needs” I refer particularly to material, apparatus, etc., besides what is already available and particularly suited for the problems which a trick photographer has to solve."
"The least understood fact about the motion picture business is, strangely enough, the large and basic one that it is an industrial machine. From manufacturer to consumer it functions exactly like the industries of automobiles, clothing, food products or of any manufactured product. The machine works with regular economic rules and under economic laws."
"Psychology is not ordinarily considered to be an engineering subject. This is due, however, not to any lack of technical and practical problems of a psychological nature but rather to the relatively undeveloped condition of psychological science. Nevertheless, we are beginning to see signs of a psychological technology in many fields of human endeavor, not the least of which is the production and manufacture of motion pictures."
"There are so many ways of recovering silver from spent hypo that it is difficult to recommend a best scheme. This must vary with the circumstances and with the bulk of the solutions handled. The chemical reactions which are most favored employ sodium sulphide or zinc dust, precipitating the silver as sulphide or as metal. Both sodium sulphide and liver of sulphur are soluble in water and may be added by measure in solution to the hypo, whereas the solid zinc dust has to be weighed or scooped out. The latter is, therefore, not so suitable for a continuous process."
"The mechanics of motion picture film are largely determined by its make-up as a layer of strongly water-absorbent colloid secured to one of slightly water-absorbent colloid. Naturally the boundary between these relatively wet and dry states is subject to considerable stress, and it sometimes happens that the union between them does not prove indissoluble. I propose to describe in the following, in a rather general way, some of the peculiarities of gelatin in the matter of swelling and shrinking, especially as affected by the solutions and conditions used in photographic processing."
"Motion picture film may become spotted with mineral oil in one or more of the following ways: (1) in the camera during exposure; (2) during passage of the film through a printer or processing machine; (3) when squeegeeing with a pneumatic squeegee previous to drying; and (4) during drying with compressed air containing atomized oil. If the film becomes spotted with oil previous to processing, the oil acts as a resist and causes uneven development. If the oil has access to the film during drying, the drying of the gelatin is locally retarded and spots similar to moisture markings are produced.1"
"In motion picture film laboratories sensitometers or timing machines frequently are employed for accurately determining the printing exposure required by the various scenes of a negative. One type of sensitometer consists essentially of a printing machine which exposes the negative onto positive film through a tablet made of areas of uniform density (each the size of a single motion picture frame) and of increasing density from one end of the tablet to the other. The density of the various steps of the tablet is such that with the proper time of exposure the positive film receives exposures over a distance of nine or more frames equivalent to those given by the various light steps on the printer. By examination of the developed sensitometer strip, the correctly exposed frame is then chosen by inspection and a number on the particular frame indicates the correct printer exposure (Fig. 1)."
"Micro-Cinema has been used chiefly for the demonstration of microscopic phenomena before an audience. The advantage of the motion picture over a practical microscopic demonstration is obvious. Comparatively little use, however, has been made of the micro-cinema in pure research work for the study of happenings in the microscopic world."
"While there is much truth in the old saying “There is nothing new under the sun,” it often happens that an idea or a device is tried and discarded or remains dormant for a number of years. After a time conditions change, new needs arise, difficulties and limitations disappear in the progress of events. Then the old idea is brought forth again in new clothes to be acclaimed by those to whom it appears new and strange, and to be belittled by some who have read that so-and-so did about the same thing years before."
"The standards in this section apply to the following kinds of indicating electrical instruments for direct current and for alternating current: (1) ammeters (2) voltmeters (3) wattmeters (4) reactive volt-ampere meters (5) frequency meters (6) power-factor, reactive-factor and phase-angle meters (7) synchroscopes. These standards are not intended to apply to indicating instruments provided with arrangements for curve drawing, contact making, etc. They do not apply to the following kinds of instruments: (a) small instruments of types and sizes which are used where low cost is essential; for example, small polarized-vane ammeters used on automobiles, battery-charging outfits, etc. (b) instruments constructed for very special requirements."
"The standards of this section cover the electrical and related properties of standard hard drawn aluminum conductors. The following shall be taken as normal values for standard hard drawn aluminum conductors."
"The standards in this section apply to the following types of rotating machines: 1. induction motors larger than fractional horse power; 2. induction generators, they are applicable also to induction machines in general. Alternating-current commutator motors are not covered in detail but they shall conform to these Standards as regards ratings, temperature rises and dielectric tests."
