"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The PROCEEDINGS of the Institute are published monthly and contain the papers anld the discussions thereon as presented at meetings."
"Provides a listing of current officers."
"Walter G. Cady (Member of the Board of the Institute of Radio Engineers, 1928) was born in Providence, Rhode Island, December 10, 1874. He received the Ph. B. and M. A. degrees from Brown University in 1895-96, and the Ph. D. degree from the University of Berlin in 1900. From 1895 to 1897 Dr. Cady was instructor in mathematics at Brown University. During the period of 1900-02 he was a Magnetic Observer for the Coast and Geodetic Survey. He left this service in 1902 to become an instructor in physics in Wesleyan University at Middletown, Conn. In 1903 he was promoted to Assistant Professor and in 1907 Professor and Head of the Physics Department. The professional contributions of Dr. Cady are briefly recounted. "
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Radio Engineering Department, General Electric Company, Schenectady, New York Summary-In this paper, the characteristics of broadcast antennas of various standard forms are discussed and experimental data presented on actutal installations at the South Schenectady Developmental Station. The effect on signal strength, as measured locally, of varying the antenna height is considered; and also the effect of high steel towers on antennas operated at 880 meters wavelength. Antenna ground system losses, local radiation losses, antenna directional effects and field distortion are also discussed to a limited extent."
"The development of aircraft has reached a stage where further progress depends upon the conquest of adverse meteorological conditions. The most promising avenue to such mastery of the elements is through adaptations of radio. Intensive work extending over two years has resulted in the development and practical demonstration of a complete set of radio aids to flying on the civil airways of the United States. This development was carried on by the Bureau of Standards for the Aeronautics Branch of the Department of Commerce. The radio aids, which will now be installed on the principal airways, comprise a radio beacon system and telephone service from ground to aircraft. The required radio equipment on the airplanes is reduced to a short pole antenna and a simple receiving set weighing a few pounds, including a visual indicator which tells the pilot whether he is on the course or how far off. All of the expensive and powerful apparatus necessary for the system is on the ground, maintained by the Government. The radio beacons operate in the frequency band 285 to 315 kc and the telephone stations in the band 315 to 350 kc. These are allocated to air service by the 1927 International Radio Convention. For the present the beacons are adjusted to the frequency of 290 kc and the telephone stations to 333 kc. The directive radio beacon is a special kind of radio station, usually located at an airport, just off the landing field."
"This paper deals in a general manner with the technical aspects of aircraft radio design and installation, and illustrates the trend of development during recent years. Radio conditions and installations aboard dirigibles (lighter-than-air craft) are described and compared with the more severe conditions and requirements aboard airplanes (heavier-than-air craft). The bearing of these special conditions both on receiver and transmitter design is shown, resulting in highly specialized equipment for aircraft use, with several distinct means of power supply. Described and illustrated are also various expeditionary aircraft radio installations, emergency radio equipment, some special high-frequency aircraft radio apparatus, as well as some standard installations in naval planes. Advantages and disadvantages of various directional radio applications for aircraft navigation are shown. The paper concludes with a brief description of recently developed commercial radio equipment, and an enumeration of ground radio facilities being installed by the government; these are expected to have a far-reaching influence on safety and dependability of our rapidly developing commercial air transportation."
"In the decade or so during which the problem of eliminating or at least reducing atmospheric disturbances has been given serious and systematic study we have learned, more or less definitely, what we can and cannot do in this direction. For example, we know that there are definite and cannot do in this direction. For example, we know that there are definite limits to what can be accomplished by frequency selection. We know that directional selectivity is of substantial value, particularly when the pre-dominant interference comes from a direction other than that of the desired signal, and we can calculate pretty well the gain to be expected from a given design. The object of this note is to analyze another arrangement which provides for high-frequency selection plus low-frequency balancing after detection. The broad idea of balancing out the interference is old, but I know of no general analysis of the arrangement. Furthermore the principle of balance has recently acquired fresh interest due to the system disclosed by Armstrong in which high-frequency selectivity and low-frequency balancing are essential features. Armstrong's scheme is treated in more detail in the latter part of this paper. The conclusions of this study are entirely negative, that is, no appreciable gain is to be expected from balancing arrangements. This is quite in agreement with the conclusion drawn over ten years ago by John Mills as a result of a rather extended experimental study made for the Bell System."
"The rapid development of commercial aviation has brought increased interest in the possibilities of radio as an aid to air navigation. In order that persons working in this field may have a means of ready reference to the work already done, the references on file in the US Bureau of Standards have been compiled into this bibliography. These references have been in part published in the monthly reference lists. They give a fairly complete bibliography on the subject up to June, 1928. As a revision of this bibliography may be published at a later time the US Bureau of Standards would be glad to receive any criticisms, corrections, or additions to this list. The references are classified by subjects and under each subject the references are in chronological order. The classification is according to \"A Decimal Classification of Radio Subjects - An Extension of the Dewey System,\" (Bureau of Standards Circular No. 138)."
"This is a list of references prepared by the US Bureau of Standards for the months of January to April, 1928, inclusive. It is intended to cover the more important papers of interest to professional radio engineers which have recently appeared in periodicals, books, etc. The number at the left of each reference classifies the reference by subject, in accordance with the scheme presented in \"A Decimal Classification of Radio Subjects-An Extension of the Dewey System,\" US Bureau of Standards Circular No. 138, a copy of which may be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC. The articles listed here are not obtainable from the US Government."
"Members are grouped by grade and listed by US state and city; non-US members are listed by country and city."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The PROCEEDINGS of the Institute are published monthly and contain the papers anld the discussions thereon as presented at meetings."
"Provides a listing of current officers."
"Jonathan Zenneck of Munich, Germany came to New York to receive the 1928 IRE Institute Medal of Honor. Professor Zenneck has been a Fellow in the Institute since 1915.  The professional contributions of Dr. Zenneck are briefly recounted."
"Each year the Institute awards a gold Institute Medal of Honor to that person who has made public the greatest advance in the science or art of radio communication, regardless of the time of performance or publication of the work on which the award is based. The contribution may be an unpatented or patented invention which has been completely and adequately described in a scientific or engineering publication of recognized standing, and must be in actual operation. It may also be a scientific analysis or explanation of hitherto unexplained phenomena of distinct importance to the radio art, although the application thereof need not necessarily be immediate. The advance may further be a new system of traffic regulation or control; a new system of administration of radio companies or of service of steamship, railroad or other companies; a legislative program beneficial to the radio art, or any portion of the operating or regulating feature of the art. In the past the medal has been awarded to the following engineers and scientists: Edwin H. Armstrong, 1918; E.F.W. Alexanderson, 1919; G. Marconi, 1920; R.A. Fessenden, 1921; Lee DeForest, 1922; John Stone Stone, 1923; M.I. Pupin, 1924; G.W. Pickard, 1926; L. W. Austin, 1927. The Board of Direction of the Institute at its April 4th meeting decided that the 1928 Medal of Honor should be awarded to Professor Jonathan Zenneek for his contributions to original research on radio circuit performance and for this scientific and educational contributions to the literature of the pioneer radio art."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"In this paper is described a system for producing alternating current of audible frequency of a very high degree of precision. The chief novelty in the system consists in the manner in which the energy necessary to sustain the oscillations of the quartz bar is returned to it. This \"feed-back\" is accomplished acoustically and the extremely loose coupling thereby secured insures that the generated frequency is practically uninfluenced by inertia effects of electrodes or variations in tube constants. There is also described the installation of the auxiliary apparatus to permit the continuous operation of the oscillator over very long periods of time and to measure the generated frequency with the highest possible precision."
"It is the purpose of this paper to give a theory of the effect of regeneration using the solution of a non-linear differential equation, and to present experimental verification of the theory. It is shown that: (a) as a first approximation, detection has no effect on the radio-frequency grid voltage developed under the influence of an incoming signal, (b) the amplification obtained through regeneration equals the two-thirds power of the ratio of the \"grid space\" to the amplitude obtained with zero regeneration. It is apparent from (b) that much greater gain is obtained through regeneration with weak signals than with strong signals. The verification of the theory is made with a circuit arrangement operating at 500 cycles per second. Application is made to radio frequencies using this as a model of a high-frequency system, following a theorem for model systems which is stated."
"The paper deals with the operating characteristics of the Output Transformer, which are developed in terms of the known speaker, tube and transformer constants. In the first part of the paper the general formula for the speaker current is developed and the effect of varying the transformer constants shown. The turn ratio of the transformer for maximum speaker current is considered in relation to the commonly used impedance ratio formula. The limitation of the impedance ratio formula is then pointed out and limits set for its general use. The general form of the current frequency characteristic for exponential horns and dynamic cone speakers is then obtained and a general method for matching the speaker to the output tube is given. In the latter part of the paper, curves are given to show the results obtained in the mathematical part of the paper. The curves also include the results of tests made to check the fundamental formula. The effect of the turn ratio on the form of the current frequency characteristic is shown and a method of using the turn ratio of the output transformer to match the speaker to the output tube is given. A perfect transformer is also compared with a good commercial transformer and the general effect of the leakage inductance and the self capacity of the transformer shown."
"Experiments on the frequency of piezo-electric elements are described with special reference to the effect due to supersonic sound waves generated in the air gap of the holder and due to its capacity. It is shown that a mechanical load on the crystal increases its thickness frequency and that an air gap has a similar effect. The velocity of the supersonic sound waves is about the same as for ordinary sound waves. The value found is 338.68 meters per second at 24.5C deg. An appropriate air gap gives even more high-frequency output than a mechanically-loaded crystal and procures a steady frequency operation. Two sputtered piezo-electric elements can produce a beat frequency which is correct within a few parts in 100,000. A method is shown by means of which a low-frequency standard can be obtained by harmonic division of a high frequency due to piezo-electric element."
"It is shown that ordinary amplifiers cannot produce true repeater action when aperiodic transients are impressed on the system. The output current can, however, be interpreted in terms of the coupling. For true aperiodic amplification the time constants have to be chosen such that the system gives true repeater action. An aperiodic amplifier using space-charge tubes is shown."
"The reflected effect of the primary circuit of a resonance transformer, or of the antenna circuit of a radio receiver, upon the secondary coupled to it, is discussed. Equations are given for determining the apparent change of inductance in the secondary and methods of compensating for these changes are given."
"The various factors affecting the variation of plate current of a receiving tube when the filament is heated with a.c. are analyzed, and their composite effect considered. The variation in temperature of the filament is found to be of minor importance while the predominant factor is the voltage drop along the cathode. The smallest variation in Ipis obtained from a tube having a properly designed V-shaped oxide filament. When straight filaments are used, their characteristics should be so chosen that the magnetic and electrostatic effects are neutralized."
"Certain discrepancies in published reports on this circuit are pointed out and it is shown that the frequency of oscillation is given by the real terms and the necessary condition for these oscillations to start by the imaginary terms of the general equation. Equations are set up for the frequency and for the necessary conditions for the generation of oscillations of a frequency determined by the tuning of the grid circuit. The feedback is assumed to be through the grid-plate capacity of the vacuum tube."
"In this paper the formulas for induction fields are derived in two elementary ways. From the definition of potential and by means of analogy the form of the vector potential, A = Ih/x is obtained. From this the formulas for radiation fields are given following Dellinger's derivation. The second part of the paper gives experimental data verifying the formulas for radiation and induction when the distance is short."
"A short history of the development of power supply apparatus for radio receivers is given, including a brief discussion of the technical requirements, such as the most desirable suppression characteristics, the necessity for voltage regulation, etc. The various devices which have been developed are described. The present status of the art and the scope and limitations of the different types of apparatus are discussed. The series wired radio set with common power supply for plate filament and grid circuit is discussed in some detail, and curves of the operating characteristics of such a set are given."
"This is a monthly list of references prepared by the Bureau of Standards and is intended to cover the more important papers of interest to professional radio engineers which have recently appeared in periodicals, books, etc. The number at the left of each reference classifies the reference by subject in accordance with the scheme presented in \"A Decimal Classification of Radio Subjects - An Extension of the Dewey System,\" Bureau of Standards Circular No. 138, a copy of which may be obtained for ten cents from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC, USA. The articles listed below are not obtainable from the Government. The various periodicals can be secured from their publishers and can be consulted at large public libraries."
"Applications for transfer or election to the various grades of membership have been received from the persons listed here, and have been approved by the Committee on Admissions. Members objecting to transfer or election of any of these applicants should communicate with the Secretary. These applications will be considered by the Board of Direction at its next meeting."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The PROCEEDINGS of the Institute are published monthly and contain the papers anld the discussions thereon as presented at meetings."
"Provides a listing of current officers."
"Member of the board of direction of the Institute, 1928. The professional contributions of Dr. Fuller are briefly recounted. Dr. Fuller was appointed a member of the Board of Direction of the Institute in January of 1928. He is Chairman of the San Francisco Section of the Institute, is a Fellow of both the Institute of Radio Engineers and the A.I.E.E., and a member of the American Physical Society."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"With deepest regret the Institute announces the death of Frederick Simpson. For many years Mr. Simpson was connected with the Kilbourne-Clark Corporation of Seattle in the manufacture of radio apparatus. He served with that company as chief engineer, manager, and vice-president. During the world war he served as radio material officer in the Navy at Boston, returning to civil life with the rank of Commander in the Reserve. During more recent years he was directing engineer and vice-president of the Simpson Radio Corporation, which manufactured radio apparatus embodying Mr. Simpson's inventions. At the time of his death, Mr. Simpson was in charge of radio engineering for the Robert Dollar Steamship Company. He was elected to Membership in the Institute in 1913 and was made a Fellow in 1915. He died on March 16th, 1928 at Seattle, Washington."
"A method is described by means of which the outputs of radio transmitters could be regulated by Federal authority as required by law in terms of measured radio field intensities instead of watts power in the transmitter or antenna circuits. The method was developed from surveys made on five different radio broadcast stations. For purposes of example, figures are given only for radio broadcast stations. The figures given may not be those which might be ultimately desirable for regulation purposes; however, they are usable as a means of explanation and demonstration and, therefore, serve the purpose for which this paper is intended. The method is developed on averages taken from actual measurements and is applicable to all conditions found in the broadcast band at the present time."
"In the mathematical analysis for radio-frequency amplifiers employing tuned transformer coupling, the effect of the distributed capacitive coupling. existing between the transformer windings has heretofore been neglected. General equations including this effect are here developed. It is shown that with these equations a closer agreement between computed and experimental results can be obtained. The presence of capacitive coupling changes the amount of mutual inductance necessary to obtain optimum amplification at a given frequency, at the same time reducing the optimum voltage gain. The manner of variation with frequeny of the equivalent transformer primary impedance is also altered."
"This paper deals with the radio beacon and its practical application in connection with long distance flights over water. It describes briefly the operation of the equi-signal radio-beacon system as developed by the Air Corps and Signal Corps Aircraft Radio Laboratories at Dayton, Ohio, during the past few years. The use of radio beacons as an aid to aerial navigation was considered necessary by the Army Air Corps in the plans for the flight from San Francisco to Hawaii by Lieutenant Hegenberger and Lieutenant Maitland. The Signal Corps was then requested to establish a radio-beacon station at each of the above points. The equipment for these installations was assembled and tested at the Signal Corps Aircraft Radio Laboratory and then shipped. One station was installed at Crissy Field, San Francisco and the other one was installed on the island of Maui, Territory of Hawaii. Several tests were made by these stations prior to the flight on June 28, 1927 daring which the signals from each station were heard over the entire distance of twenty-four hundred miles. The Army flight is described and the log kept by each station is shown. The beacon signals assisted materially in the problem of navigation during this flight, but unfortunately were not followed the entire distance due to difficalties with the receiving equipment. The next flight, over the same course, in which the radio beacons were used was that made by Messrs. Smith and Bronte."
"Effective heights of the Kennelly-Heaviside layer have been measured from December 19, 1927 to January 16, 1928. It is found, with the improved conditions, that the heights of successive reflections are approximately in the ratios 1, 2, 4."
"This is a monthly list of references prepared by the Bureau of Standards and is intended to cover the more important papers of interest to professional radio engineers which have recently appeared in periodicals, books, etc. The number at the left of each reference classifies the reference by subject in accordance with the scheme presented in \"A Decimal Classification of Radio Subjects - An Extension of the Dewey System,\" Bureau of Standards Circular No. 138, a copy of which may be obtained for ten cents from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC, USA. The articles listed below are not obtainable from the Government. The various periodicals can be secured from their publishers and can be consulted at large public libraries."
"Applications for transfer or election to the various grades of membership have been received from the persons listed here, and have been approved by the Committee on Admissions. Members objecting to transfer or election of any of these applicants should communicate with the Secretary. These applications will be considered by the Board of Direction at its next meeting."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Coupling to high-voltage transmission lines for purposes of carrier-current communication was first. universally made by means of coupling wires. This type of coupling usually required high-power transmitting equipment, but when coupling capacitors were substituted it was possible to reduce the carrier input to the line without affecting the received signal strength. The paper gives an approximate method for determining the effectiveness of coupling wires and coupling capacitors. No attempt is made at refinements in calculations as it is only desired to show the effect of stray capacity. Curves show the change in practise from coupling wires to coupling capacitors. It is estimated that by the early part of 1928 the total number of the two types of coupling will be equal. The electrical characteristics for different types of insulation used in coupling capacitors, based on test results is given. Some important points of design for the new cable capacitor are included."
"The standard instrument for measuring crest values of high alternating voltages at 60 cycles is the sphere-gap voltmeter, which measures a voltage by the distance which it will flash between spheres. In much of the high-voltage research, however, very high frequencies are used. For measuring the voltages used in these high-frequency tests, the sphere-gap voltmeter is used, the assumption being made that its calibration at high frequency is but little, if any, different from that at 60 cycles. In the endeavor to make the sphere-gap a standard for measuring peak values of voltage at high frequencies, as it is at present a standard at commercial frequencies, experimental data were obtained from which calibration curves for the sphere-gap voltmeter were plotted for frequencies ranging from 28,000 to 425,000 cycles per sec. for standard conditions of temperature and pressure. These curves cover a voltage range from about 10,000 to 50,000 volts, the source of the high-frequency voltage being a Poulsen arc with variable inductance and capacity in, its a-c. circuit. The results show no appreciable change in voltage required to flash across a given gap as the frequency increases until a frequency of about 20,000 cycles is reached, then a gradual decrease inl required voltage as the frequency increases from 20,000 to 60,000 cycles, after which a single curve holds for all frequencies at least up to 425,000 cycles per sec., the highest frequency tested."
"A qualitative analysis of the nature of the space charge created about a conductor in corona, particularly with respect to relative magnitudes and polarities, rather than actual quantitative measurement, is described here. This work was the principal work on corona during the past year in the Ryan High-Voltage Laboratory. In tests with the arrangements of a wire and a plane, and of a wire and a cylinder, a decided rectifying effect was discernible in the space about the conductor in corona, in that that region was built up to a unidirectional potential above ground, the magnitude and polarity of this potential depending on the voltage applied. In both of these set-ups, this net rectification, which is evidently caused by some differential action entering into the ionization process, was of a positive sign at the start of corona, but changed over to negative as the voltage was raised. In a test made on two 1.1-in. diameter, parallel concentric strand copper conductors, 1O ft. apart, the space between them was found to have assumed a potential above ground when the conductors were in corona, the sign of this charge being negative at first, and then positive as the voltage increased. Tests were also carried out on a single brush, and on a rod fitted with ``artificial'' brushes."
"This paper, after referring to the results of a previous study of the electric oscillations on the three-phase aerial line obtained by Dr. Bekku, describes the additional work done by the writer concerning the electric oscillations in the double-circuit, three-phase transmission line, and shows that there are three kinds of traveling waves. The nature of these waves, and some of the important results of the induced transients, are described. In the appendixes, it is shown briefly how these results were derived and how to calculate the line constants from the construction data of the lines. A few numerical examples are given."
"The paper deals with records which have been obtained during short circuits upon the Southern California Edison's 220-kv. system. The main features of the system are outlined, and such operating data as are necessary to afford an understanding of the various conditions which have to be met are included. The general scheme of relays is described, and the causes of flashovers and their times of occurrence are tabulated, together with the percentages which cause interruptions to service. Whether or not interruption is caused is found to depend, among other things, upon the load being carried at the time. With load below 150,000 kw., there are no interruptions unless relays are inoperative. A number of typical records of short circuits are shown and analyzed. It is shown that large amounts of power are consumed in short circuits, but that this is dependent upon the ground resistance. Practically all short circuits are single-phase to ground. The advantage of low-reactance machines is discussed and the various factors that prevent loss of synchronism pointed out. The records show that there is but little if any tendency for synchronous machines at either end of the line to fall out of step among themselves as a group, but that the sending end under certain conditions will get out of step with the receiving end."
"This paper discusses the characteristics of equipment which have been found most suitable for use on 220-kv. systems or on extensive lower voltage systems. Consideration is given to general system design, governors of prime movers, generators, excitation systems, transformers, high-voltage oil circuit breakers, transmission line, and the equipment of substations. The result of four years' operation of a 220-kv. system have proven it to be as reliable as a 110-kv. system. The economies of 220-kv. transmission have been realized."
"The principal features of this paper may be summarized as follows: For static stability calculations, power systems may be represented by a network with constant impedance and admittance branches with as many terminals as the number of synchronous machines requiring individual consideration. This method is justified because, as developed in the paper, loads may be represented by the equivalent constant admittances and synchronous machines may be replaced by their equivalent impedances. A criterion for static stability of systems is presented together with formulas for the calculation of the two-, three- and four-machine cases. It is shown that the maximum angle between machines for which synchronism can be maintained is, in general, somewhat dependent upon the inertia of the synchronous machines. Under some conditions synchronism can be maintained between two machines operating at angles greater than π/2. The delivered power corresponding to definite excitation of machines will, in general, be a maximum for a smaller angle than the maximum stable angle. While the investigations have shown that synchronism can be maintained in regions heretofore considered inherently unstable, operation in such regions is held to be inadvisable. There are a number of generalizations which may be made as to the limiting stable condition."
"The paper reviews the general characteristics of large synchronous condensers, with particular reference to the possibilities of greater standardization in condenser specifications. Particular emphasis is placed on the question of the ratio of lagging to leading kv-a. capacity, and it is concluded that about 50 per cent lagging capacity is normal, while any important increase in this ratio requires special design of greater size and cost. Attention is called to the advantage to be gained by the use of reactors in place of such oversized condensers, where extra lagging capacity is needed. Separate sections of the paper are devoted to starting and stability characteristics, and to recent improvements in the design of synchronous condensers. Finally, the use of asynchronous condensers is discussed and found to be undesirable."
"Part I is an introduction, showing the need for reliable records of power disturbances in transmission lines, and showing that the incandescent-lamp oscillograph is the only practicable recorder of such chance disturbances. Part II describes the Power Osiso which is a very compact and highly efficient oscillograph, having an instantaneous wattmeter, a permanent-magnet galvanometer, and a relay arrangement with control for automatic operation on chance disturbances. The various auxiliary apparatts, such as daylight-loading film holders, 6-volt motor, potential circuit control, etc., is also described, together with different connections for the same. Part III describes the Multi-Element Oscillograph, which gives from 3 to 9 simultaneous records on one film, also the various auxiliary apparatus and the possible combinations thereof. A detailed description is given of the automatic operation equipment and its action in recording chance disturbances."
"This paper outlines work done in connection with planning a protection scheme for the oil storage tank farms of the General Petroleum Corporation of California. The work shows that the average annual number of storms at a given location is a constant. The dielectric property of oil has no influence in causing lightning or inducing it to strike oil in storage. Tests show that excellent protection can be obtained by towers properly installed, but they do not indicate absolute immunity against hits. The work done also shows that an extensive field program, supplemented by such laboratory work as required for understanding and assisting the field program, should be carried out to extend our knowledge of lightning phenomena and protection."
"Building safe storage for the products of the oil industry is quite a different problem from making the storage already in use safe from fires started by lightning. The latter problem is discussed with some principles to be observed. Details of construction are so varied that it is difficult to give general rules. A record of several hundred installations over a period of about three years is given. Work with small models in the laboratory has been successful in some cases. It is unwise to rely too much on work of this kind, however. Since the seat of the charge under a storm cloud is largely on pipe lines, tanks, and other metal parts in the oil fields, lightning devices should be securely attached to these structures. A network of pipe lines at or near the surface makes a better ground for towers than a single shaft driven vertically downward to permanent moisture."
"This paper, which describes the development of the oil-filled type of 132,000-volt cable, has for convenience been divided into four parts. In the first part the economic and commercial aspects of the development are discussed. It is pointed out that this type of cable permits direct interconnection with high-voltage overhead lines and it is felt that the satisfactory operation of the two lines which have been placed in service this year will be an indication that 220,000-volt cable can be constructed without material changes in the design. The theory and design of the cable are completely developed in the second part. Particular reference is made to the effect on the dielectric of occluded gas and the method of eliminating trouble from this source in the oil filled type is described. The third part relates to the manufacture, inspection, and testing of the cable and equipment. The tests showed that the electrical constants of the cable were substantially unchanged by the normal temperature cycle. The installations at New York and Chicago are described in the fourth part. Inspection, indication of oil leaks, cable and joint repairs are discussed. The replacement of a length of the New York cable, which developed a leak in the sheath, is covered in detail."
"This paper gives operating records of the first year of electrical operation of the suburban service of the Illinois Central Railroad. It shows monthly curves of load, kw-hr. per car-mile, maximum demand, load factor, and temperature. It also shows monthly curves for the last four years of passengers, car-miles, seat-miles, and operating income. The improvements in service are enumerated and the general results at this date are discussed."
"This paper describes the design and performance of a 120-ton storage-battery-driven, locomotive which has been in switching service in the freight yards of the Chicago railroad terminals. It shows that this locomotive has many advantages for this service including absence of smoke, quietness, a high factor of availability, ease of control, and economy."
"Actual operating results and experiences with a mercury arc rectifier feeding a railroad are given in this paper. The rectifier is compared with synchronous converters in regard to efficiency, troubles, maintenance, and other points."
"It is the purpose of this paper briefly to discuss, from a practical standpoint, the application and design of synchronous motors for steel-mill main-roll drives, in an effort to show what their advantages and disadvantages are; where they should, and where they should not, be used; and what special precautions must be taken in the design of motors for this service."
"This paper is a general description of the interconnected power systems in the region surrounding and including Chicago as a center. The electrical energy generated in this region in 1926 was over 4,000,000,000 kw-hr. and the combined generating capacity of the three largest companies was 1,340,000 kw. The paper outlines important features of major stations and transmission and distribution systems and gives plans for the future developments. It also explains the contract for interchange of energy among the three largest companies."
"A new form of oscillograph for recording fault currents and their voltage disturbing effects in electric power systems is described. Representative records are analyzed and further applications of the instrument are suggested."
"This work is a compilation of many of the new methods for relay protection required by superpower interconnections. The ideas have been obtained from various sources and represent good present day practise. The general requirements for such interconnections are mentioned with particular reference to protection against phase-to-phase short circuits in those cases where the short-circuit current, under certain system conditions, is less than the full-load current under other conditions. The clearing of accidental grounds is discussed and a new study of residual currents on systems of different types is given. This study indicates the usefulness of certain inverse time limit relays on systems having dead grounded power transformer neutrals at all switching stations. Bus protection and \"back-up\" methods are described. Some of the new relays which have been developed, or improvements which have been made to older types in order that the new demands may be met, are described; and there is illustrated a typical relay installation similar to that now being placed in service on a 220-kv. interconnection."
"In this paper the comparatively recent discovery of generator instability is discussed. A method of testing synchronous machinery in the unstable as well as in the stable range is described. The results of tests performed on two machines is shown and discussed. The conclusion is drawn that the design of customary machines will have to be improved, synchronous condensers installed on many long lines, or inefficient underloading of units will have to be tolerated."
"This paper described the telephone toll system in the region within a radius of about 50 mi. from Chicago. In this system have been established 21 toll centers at which are handled the toll traffic of their own exchanges and 95 other exchanges in the area. Descriptions are given of the toll plan and the toll plant, methods of handling toll calls, volume of traffic handled, etc. A most important consideration is the very rapid growth taking place in toll-service requirements in this region."
"This paper covers investigations made in undertaking the design of a rectifier for use as the B power supply for radio receivers. It determines the most satisfactory type of filter circuit and the appropriate values of inductance and capacitance to give a d-c. output delivered with the least practicable voltage drop and having no fluctuations of sufficient magnitude to interfere with the proper operation of the set. A vacuum-tube peak voltmeter used to detect very small fluctuations is described."
"The design, uses, and limitations of a new circuit employing the three-element vacuum tube as a voltmeter are discussed. Two overlapping ranges of voltage, together with a single operating battery, are the unique features. The effect of wave-form and the elimination of that effect are treated."
"The paper describes experiments in study of the separate influence of residual air and moisture in impregnated paper as used for the insulation of high voltage cables. Some sixty similar samples are prepared, dried, evacuated, and impregnated under the same program, except as regards the pressure of evacuation and impregnation. In groups of three, the samples were evacuated at various absolute pressures between 2 mm. and 76 cm. Hg. The samples were brass tubes 2.54 cm. in diameter, 122 cm. long with 25 layers of wood pulp paper applied in the usual lapping spirals. Each sample was equipped with outside test and guard electrodes. Throughout their entire history, i. e., before and after impregnation, observations were made on the samples of their dielectric absorption and their final conductivity. These studies have led to the conclusions as to the influence of moisture. After impregnation, the samples are studied as to power-factor and dielectric loss over the range of electric stress 20 to 300 volts per mil, and of temperature 20 deg. cent. to 80 deg. cent. These studies have led, principally, to the conclusions of the influence of residual air. They show clearly the importance of thorough impregnation, and the conditions under which it may be accomplished. The causes of rising power-factor-voltage curves and methods of avoidance are clearly indicated. The principal results and conclusions are given at the end of the paper."
"The subject of this paper is a phenomenon of great interest and very great complexity. The electric arc is a tool of extreme power and flexibility. The electric arc can be used to melt the most refractory substances, cut the armor plates of battleships or weld together the ends of wires no thicker than a human hair. It is a wonderful tool that makes or breaks almost anything. It may unite the most indifferent elements such as nitrogen and oxygen, or break the molecule into its constituent atoms. In this paper we shall discuss only one type of application of the electric arc; namely, the application of the arc to the welding of metals, but even in these limits the field is very wide. The electric arc was discovered by H. Davy who in 1810 was experimenting with the sparking between two horizontally disposed carbon pencils. The density of the current was such that on short circuit the tips of the carbon pencils were heated to incandescence. When the electrodes were separated the electric current continued to flow across the air-gap between the carbon pencils. The air-gap was bridged by some sort of an extremely bright band which under action of the accending currents of hot air was bent upwards and formed a bow or an ``arc.'' This is the origin of the term, the ``electric arc.'' For many years the electric arc was used only as a source of light."
"In this note, the question of the effect of assuming infinite permeability in the iron on the accuracy of calculations of the interpolar fields in electric machines is studied. One can do this very easily by replacing the saturated by non-saturated poles, covered by an infinitely thin sheet of current giving the same tangential component of the field along the surface of the iron. The field produced by this sheet of current, then, represents the difference between the exterior fields of the saturated circuit and of the non-saturated circuit. In addition to this indirect method of estimating the influence of saturation, the sketch of the field between the poles and in the air-gap can also be directly developed by determining with the aid of the differential field, the point of indifference of the saturated circuit. A comparison of sketches obtained in this way shows that, for the same useful flux, the interpolar fields are almost the same in both cases. From these sketches and others which will appear shortly in the Revue Générale de l'Electricite, it is evident that the sketches and functional curves given by Messrs. Stevenson and Park, and Wieseman, in their very valuable work, can still be used even though the poles are saturated."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes a phenomenon which is used as a method of studying the development of high-voltage sparkover. It has been found that if a voltage which rises very rapidly to a value more than sufficient to cause breakdown if continuously applied is impressed upon a sphere-gap, and this is very quickly reduced to a low value, luminous streamers are produced instead of the usual intense spark. These streamers can be observed with the eye and can be recorded on a photographic plate by the use of a quartz lens. The phenomenon described and recorded is of intense interest because it presents the intermediate stages between the initiation of and the actual flashover between the spheres. The effect on time lag of flashover with special reference to the state of ionization of the gas previous to flashover is also discussed. Besides giving information on the mechanism of development of spark-over, this method of ``suppressed discharge'' has been used to determine the nature of the electrostatic field about insulators and between electrodes of various shapes."
"The general solution to the slightly damped network is expressed in terms of the undamped solution by means of series expansions. The first part of the paper gives a method for evaluating the complex roots of the determinantal equation, and the second part shows how the expansions of the first part may be correlated with the Heaviside formula to form the complete approximate solution. An example illustrates the application to a simple network."
"The principle of superposition, discussed first for dielectrics by Hopkinson, has been shown for a long time in experiment. However, its validity for the several theories which have been advanced for dielectric behavior has been shown in only a few cases. One of the exceptions is the important theory of Maxwell.2 This paper shows that the principle of superposition is a necessary consequence of Maxwell's theory. It goes somewhat further and shows that the principle is valid for any theory which leads to a system of linear differential equations with constant coefficients."
"This paper discusses the interconnection between three of the leading power supply companies in the eastern part of the country, the Philadelphia Electric Co., the Pennsylvania Power & Light Co., and the Public Service Electric & Gas Co. It outlines the physical aspects of the tie-in between the companies which is a 220-kv. ring of high-load capacity, triangular in shape with sides respectively 49 mi., 82 mi., and 77 mi. long. The advantages of the interconnection are enumerated as well as some of the operating problems. Preliminary to the discussion of the interconnection the paper discusses the Conowingo hydroelectric project, an important factor in the interconnection scheme. The plant has an initial installation of 280,000 ky-a. in generators."
"Great progress has been made. Interconnection between independent systems is primarily a protective measure. The greatest economic benefits have been realized when the interconnections have been made by subsidiary companies of one holding company. The capacity of tie lines and the amount of power interchanged has increased greatly. The size of generating units has increased, as has the size of power plants, resulting in lowered cost per kw. The problem of satisfactory voltage and power factor control has increased in complexity as has that of system load dispatching. While much improvement has been made in oil circuit breakers, they still leave much to be desired. Interconnection has made possible more economical operation of existing plants and has resulted in the use of a larger proportion of the available water on systems combining steam, storage, and run-of-river hydroelectric plants. Long-time forecasting of load and rainfall conditions is important in economical system planning. The 110-kv. and 154-kv. line construction is discussed, also the value of ground wires and lightning arresters. The growing importance of carrier current for supervisory control and communication and their application are discussed."
"This paper tells in general of the reasons for, and the advontages of, interconnection between poower supply systems. It enumerates five essential factors which. must be considered in successful operation of interconnected systems; namely, (1) dependoable communication; (2) centralized authority and control over operations; (3) location and isolation of trouble; (4) voltage regulation and control over the entire system; and (5) frequency control. A description is given of the interconnections along the entire Pacific Coast."
"The development of power stations in the Chicago District is described, showing how small stations have been replaced, and the energy supply for light, power, and traction consolidated by the use of high-voltage lines. The interconnections between stations and the developments of recent years and for the immediate future are outlined. This includes cables at 66,000 and 132,000 volts, with circuit capacities of 60,000 kv-a. A station in central Illinois, near the coal supply, is being tied in with the Chicago District. Interchange of energy between companies is conducted under an agreement, which is an important factor in the success of interconnection. Some of the operating problems are outlined briefly."
"The saturation permeameter is a device for speedy and accurate measurement of saturation value of magnetic material; that is, for measurement of the limiting value of intrinsic induction (ß) characteristic of that material. The permeameter in its present form is of the well-known bar-yoke type, with a magnetizing coil capable of producing a magnetizing force of H = 4500 g. without excessive heating. The permeameter is equipped with a compensating coil whose function is to compensate automatically for the spatial flux enclosed by the potential coil, so that the ballistic deflections indicate the saturation value without further computation or correction. The permeameter is available for accurate measurement of saturation value of such material as is saturated well within the working range of the permeameter, i. e., with a magnetizing force of H = 8000 g., or less, which includes all magnetic material used for electrical engineering purposes except those for permanent magnets and cobalt. The saturation permeameter is also available for approximately correct measurement of B or ß, for range of H below the saturation point as far down as H = 200 g. In speed of testing and accuracy of the measured saturation value, this permeameter surpasses all devices for saturation measurement developed heretofore."
"The paper gives a brief description of the manufacture of magnetic cores of compressed permalloy powder followed by information covering their magnetic properties with particular reference to their, use in loading coils. Production of the powder, and its insulation, pressing, and annealing are discussed. Under magnetic properties, permeability, core loss, and modulation are treated. Curves are given illustrating the characteristics of interest in connection, with the design and application of loading coils; and comparisons to corresponding characteristics of compressed powdered iron are made throughout."
"This paper shows that humidity affects considerably the flashover voltages of porcelain and Pyrex insulators. The flashover potential rises as the humidity is increased. The tests were made on pin-type insulators and on rods. The results show that this rising characteristic is a surface effect which varies with the absolute water content of the surrounding atmosphere."
"Visible records of the effects of lightning surges and transients on transmission lines are described in this paper, which explains the operation of a specially constructed cathoderay oscillograph. The outstanding feature of this oscillograph is its ability to record phenomena of a microsecond in duration, while at the same time the instrument is maintained in an exposed position for as much as a million times as long as the occurrence. Methods of eliminating load frequency are discussed. Different types of lightning surges are reproduced. The use of the oscillograph for making graphic records of switching surges on transmission lines is also demonstrated."
"The special case of cylindrical rotor machines has been treated previously by Boucherot and others. The present paper solves the general case, including salient pole machines. The cylindrical rotor type thus becomes merely a limiting case. The principal assumption which distinguishes the present theory from the extensively studied cylindrical rotor theory is that the total armature self-inductance is here taken as variable with respect to rotor position, whereas the previous theory of short circuits, as represented by Boucherot, for instance, assumes this inductance to be constantߞin other words, that the air-gap is uniform. The four basic concepts underlying the improvement in theory, both as applied here and in the authors' previous work on Synchronous Machines, are: 1. Characterization of the machine by four reactance coefficients, two corresponding to the main pole axis, i. e., direct axis, and two to the interpolar axis, i. e., quadrature axis. These are: xD, xD', xQ, xQ'. (See notation.) Thus the theory has been referred to, more or less aptly, as the \"Four-Constant Theory.\" 2. Resolution of flux and m. m. f. waves traveling with respect to the rotor into stationary, pulsating components in line with the direct and quadrature axes. The theory involves also, of course, the usual Blondel resolution of the stationary fundamental waves. 3. That the variable component of armature inductance varies between the direct axis value and the quadrature axis value as a second harmonic function of the electrical space angle."
"This paper presents new and simplified formulas for the armature leakage reactance of synchronous machines, and compares the results obtained with tests on 100 machines of varied types. The new formulas are characterized by novel expressions for the end leakage and for the ``air-gap'' or ``differential leakage'' reactances. Formulas for zero phase-sequence reactances are also given. The definitions of armature leakage and armature reaction reactances used are those proposed by Doherty and Nickle in 1926, and as a result the leakage reactance has a much smaller value than has heretofore been assigned to it, thus requiring a rather fundamental revision of the ordinary conceptions of the flux densities existing in the various parts of a loaded synchronous machine."
"Until somewhat recently, synchronous machine theory has been satisfied with a relatively few characteristic constants, or reactances, in terms of which the behavior of machines has been calculated. Present theory, however, requires many more coefficients. There are now generally recognized two values each of leakage, synchronous, and transient reactance which correspond to the two symmetrical axes of magnetization of the armature current and which refer to balanced operation. Negative and zero phase-sequence reactances are also employed to determine operation under unbalanced conditions, and it is possible and desirable to distinguish other reactances. In view of the increasing complexity of the subject it is felt that a critical survey of it is in order and the object of the paper has been to provide that survey. The paper has been divided into two parts. Part I is descriptive, and treats the subject with regard to those factors which are important to application or operating engineers, and to designers. In particular, the major types of reactances which include the synchronous, transient, and phase-sequence reactances, are discussed. These quantities are defined and their methods of test outlined. It appears necessary to consider a second type of transient reactance, namely sub-transient reactance. Both reactances may be determined from short-circuit oscillograms as illustrated in the paper. A table is included which gives the numerical range of reactances for the various types of synchronous machines. Part II discusses the theoretical considerations, with a view to broadening and classifying existing conceptions of reactance."
"The thermal volume meter was originally brought out by Professor Thomas, and is frequently called a Thomas meter. The principle is that the temperature of the gas is raised by means of an electrical heater, the change in temperature being accurately measured either by means of resistance thermometers connected in a wheatstone bridge network, or by means of a thermopile. It is believed that the thermocouple method is preferable to resistance thermometers, and most of the paper deals with that construction. The usual construction has walls of wood or micarta, which serve as an insulating support for the heater coils and thermocouples. The general proportions of the volume meter as to section and length are dealt with, the former being determined mainly by the mean velocity of the air, and the latter by the distance needed to give the gas an opportunity to mix after passing the heater. A sufficient number of thermocouples is required to give a good reading of the potentiometer with a comparatively low temperature rise of the gas and also to obtain a good average of the gas temperature. The details of construction are described. The equations that are suitable for calculating the volumes of the gas are then given. Then follows considerable discussion on the possible sources of error in the meter, the principal ones being The non-uniform heating of the gas. Non-uniform distribution of velocities. Heat escapement. Methods are suggested for determining the magnitude of these various conditions experimentally or by calculation."
"During the last few years there has been a very rapid increase in the rating of turbine generators. That these ratings might be possible, a large amount of investigation has been necessary; and this paper covers, in a general way, some of the problems that have been studied and solved by the engineers of the Westinghouse E. & M. Co. The present status of the design of turbine generators is given, and what the future developments must be if still larger generators are to be built."
"The paper presents a brief résumé of the problems encountered in the design of two-pole high-speed synchronous motors together with a description of how they are met. A satisfactory design is worked out. The theory of the starting winding is given briefly in non-mathematical language, and curves are presented showing the results obtained in so far as current and torque are concerned. It also outlines the applications in which these motors have been used, pointing out both the advantages and the limitations of synchronous motors. This is followed by a description of the operating characteristics and of the method of controlling the motors."
"The pioneer paper on this subject of copper losses in armature conductors was presented by A. B. Field.4 Since then Field's fundamental premises have been adopted by practically all who have contributed to this subject, both in this country and abroad, although the method of presentation has been modified as the individual thought best. Thus one of the present authors has favored a vector method of analysis that seems to him to have marked advantages. In this paper the vector method is extended to the case of the d-c. machine. Without doubt, it is generally believed that there are extra losses in the armature coil of a d-c. machine when it is undergoing commutation, but that during the major portion of the time, since the current is steady, the loss in the coil is correctly computed by squaring the value of the current and multiplying by the true or ohmic resistance of the coil. This view, however, is not correct. The disturbance in the coil current produced by the process of commutation persists throughout the cycle so that at no time is the current uniformly distributed over the cross-section of the conductor. Although the disturbance and resulting extra loss factor are greatest during commutation, the extra losses are present at all times, even while the current in the coil is steady. The procedure for finding the extra losses is simple. First, the time variation of the coil current must be known and analyzed for its harmonic components."
"When a d-c. compound motor is started, the rise of current in the series field induces a voltage in the shunt field counter to that applied, and the shunt field current may reach several times normal value in a negative direction. This current reversal gives, in effect, a differentially compounded motor during the starting period and causes the starting torque to be materially reduced. In many applications of compound motors, therefore, predetermined performance is not obtained. In particular cases where the motor is continually started and stopped, the effect may be so serious as to dictate the choice of another type of motor, or one of a special design to minimize the undesirable action. In case the compound motor is disconnected from the line while running, and reconnected with no external resistance, the delay in establishing a flux due to the damping action of the shunt field may permit excessive currents to flow. In other d-c. motors, currents induced in the solid iron portions of the frame and poles exert a damping effect similar to that of the shunt field in the compound motor, which may at times be undesirable. A study of such transients leads to means by which they may be miinimized and provides calculation methods for predetermining motor behavior."
"The design of high quality horn-type loudspeakers with moving coil drivers is considered. Efficiency and maximum output capacity obtainable from this type of loudspeaker are calculated. Methods of providing load capacity greater than that possible with a single loudspeaker are described."
"The most obvious method for determining the distortion of telegraph signals is to calculate the transients of the telegraph system. This method has been treated by various writers, and solutions are available for telegraph lines with simple terminal conditions. It is well known that the extension of the same methods to more complicated terminal conditions, which represent the usual terminal apparatus, leads to great difficulties. The present paper attacks the same problem from the alternative standpoint of the steady-state characteristics of the system. This method has the advantage over the method of transients that the complication of the circuit which results from the use of terminal apparatus does not complicate the calculations materially. This method of treatment necessitates expressing the criteria of distortionless transmission in terms of the steady-state characteristics. Accordingly, a considerable portion of the paper describes and illustrates a method for making this translation. A discussion is given of the minimum frequency range required for transmission at a given speed of signaling. In the case of carrier telegraphy, this discussion includes a comparison of single-sideband and double-sideband transmission. A number of incidental topics is also discussed."
"A brief description of the Edison System at St. Louis is given, and power supply, service restoration, and system balance are discussed. The history of the application of automatic control equipment to the system and a brief resumé of operating experiences are also given. The relation of the St. Charles St. Substation to the remainder of the system is pointed out and certain features of its design explained. The scheme of loading the machines and the method of load shifting between machines is given in detail, and a table is given to show the ``set-up'' for any load. The distinctive features of the various types of machines at this station are discussed, particular attention being given to the control of the converter with transformer taps and high-voltage revolving field booster. The scheme of automatically changing taps under load is described fully. A brief summary of the protective features on this machine is also given. The operating experience with the automatic equipment at the St. Charles St. Station is related."
"Supervisory control lines used in the remtote or automatic control of electric plants are subject to overvoltages dangerous to insulation and to operators. These overvoltages may be caused by lightning, crosses with the power lines, or induction from them. Open wire control lines are influenced by all of these, cables with grounded sheaths are immune to disturbances caused by lightning or other electrostatic induction, and are more or less safe from crosses. The ordinary cable, however, is still subject to high voltages by electromagnetic induction when a fault occurs on the power line. These voltages may be dangerous not only to apparatus, but also to the cable insulation. Protection by means of lightning arresters is therefore necessary. Calculationts show that even if the apparatus locations are protected, high voltages may occur along the line if the transmission line fault is between stations. This may cause a cable failure. It may, therefore, be advisable to protect the cable at certain intervals. Supervisory control protectors may be called upon to discharge heavy currents of appreciable duration. This requires extremely sturdy arresters. The requirements are met by a spark-gap of special design in argon at a reduced pressure. Specially made cables will shield the line against extraneous disturbances. In large installations, the use of such cables may be worthy of consideration."
"This paper deals with the interruptions due to lightning on an extensive interconnected 132-kv. system during the year 1926, a similar record covering part of the system having been reported previously.2 A layout of the system is shown and details of the type of line and tower construction are given in considerable detail. The lightning performance of different sections of the line have been reduced to a common basis and discussed from the point of view material of line structure, height of line, ground wire, and line protective equipment. Changes in tower design are discussed in the light of experience gained in the past. The work done the past year to reduce the lightning troubles at the stations is described. The efficacy of the ground wire seems very definitely shown but it is believed further study and attention should be given this matter as a means of reducing the lightning voltage on transmission lines, particularly to reducing the lightning voltage at and near a switching station. The problem of determining the damage to linie conductors, etc., is an important one. Data on this are at present incomplete, but it is planned to obtain a systematic record in the future which will, it is believed, supply valuable design information."
"Potential front high-voltage circuits is obtained by means of capacitance transformers. This potential is applied to the grid circuit of vacuum-tube amplifiers, the output from which drives a rotating type of synchroscope. Thus the vacuum-tube synchronizing equipment makes unnecessary costly high-voltage transformers, which have been almost universally used for synchronizing in the past. The paper describes the commercial apparatus, gives equations pertaining to the vacuum-tube amplifier and shows calculated and measured characteristic curves."
"This paper describes apparatus recently developed for utilizing the charging current of a condenser bushing in operating a synchronoscope, thus making a simple and inexpensive method of synchronizing at high voltage. Data are given also covering the operation of the device for different conditions of frequency, voltage, etc., thus assisting in the consideration of the adaptability of the device to other applications. An account of the first installation in the field is also given."
"To understand the effect of surface materials on metallic arc welding electrodes, something must be known as regards the fundamental theory of arc heat distribution, arc vapor resistance, and similar matters which are modified by the presence of surface materials. The character of the arc may be changed by chemical and structural variations in the surface materials. Stability is one such arc characteristic. Two types of stability are recognized,-chemical and electrical. Surface materials have a significant influence on the brittleness or ductility of weld metal. They also can be used to control the arc type, four such types being recognized. The influence of surface materials on the heating of electrodes is another phase of the matter of practical significance. Surface materials may be employed to control both the operating characteristics of the electrode and the resultant weld properties. Among the operating characteristics might be mentioned stability and rate of melting. Among the weld properties are included freedomf rom blow-holes and tensile strength. These and other practical applications of a comprehensive knowledge of surface materials are cited in this paper."
"The stability of the iron welding arc is influenced by a number of factors, such as the nature and the aerodynamic state of the surrounding atmosphere, the strength and distribution of the magnetic field, the composition of the electrode, the nature and the amount of gases occluded in the electrode, etc. In this paper, however, only the first item has been discussed in an attempt to show that the cooling of the electrode and the arc core by dissociation of the surrounding gas has the preponderent influence on the stability of the arc."
"The use of arc welding for constructing buildings, machinery, bridges, etc., has come into prominence during the past eighteen months, due to the merits of the process becoming recognized by a number of designers. Undoubtedly within the next few years the applications of the process will be extended rapidly as our available data are corroborated and amplified and as the limitations of the process become well defined. The arc welding process of joining steel members to produce a fabricated structure, either to replace riveting or to take the place of castings, will produce results not obtainable in any other way known at present. Among the advantages of arc welding are the following: 1. The weight of materials required in a member or structure can be reduced by as much as 18 per cent. 2. No material is removed from members for welded connections such as rivet holes for riveted construction. 3. The weight of connecting material in some cases can be reduced 50 per cent to 90 per cent. 4. Absolute fixation of one member to another can be easily and economically obtained. 5. Continuity of members intersecting others can be readily obtained. 6. Greater rigidity can be obtained in a structure. 7. Overlapping members can be completely sealed by weld metal, thereby excluding moisture, preventing corrosion, and making a structure easier to paint. 8. Changes in or additions to structures can be made with a great saving in both time and expence. 9."
"The object of this paper is to show how extensively electric welding is being used in the fabrication of large electrical apparatus. It outlines the use and advantages of welding for supplanting the casting and machinery of parts and describee briefly the welding equipment developed for this purpose and soms of the electrical machines produced by this method."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"At the end of the year 1926 the High-Voltage Laboratory of the Electrotechnical Institute in Leningrad undertook an experimental research in order to study the influence of internal vacua and ionization on the life duration of paper insulated high-voltage cables, as well as to clear up the conditions under which such vacua may occur. W. A. Del Mar3 drew attention to the importance of internal vacua in high-voltage cables and pointed out the three probable causes of their appearance, namely: 1. Temperature changes after installation of the cable, which produce a change of volume of air and oil in the cable in view of the different thermal expansion coefficient of lead and insulation of the cable. 2. Residual deformations, occurring when the cable is put on a reel and taken off it afterwards. S. Changes in chemical structure in the impregnating compound under the influence of ionized air, which produce a decrease of volume of the compound. The aim of the research was to clear up the part of the above mentioned causes in the formation of internal vacua, then to determine the values of those vacua and the decrease of life duration of the cable under the influence of the latter. The research is not yet finished and only its preliminary results are reported on these pages."
"The paper briefly discusses the development of the tandem type of rolling mill and the requirements of electrical drives for such mills, and presents methods of calculation of power requirements."
"Public utilities having to do with supplying electric power are continually finding themselves confronted with problems a little different from anything in the past. New interconnections of superpower plants and transmission lines often present involved metering installations. The installation described herein has to do generally with such a condition and, specifically, has to provide for metering the simultaneous composite demand of an ultimate installation of 48 separate feeder circuits. It is believed that this is the largest installation of its kind so far attempted. The importance of this particular job required a very exacting study of all factors and the operating results, to date, seem to bear out the solution. A novel scheme has been incorporated in the daily routine of handling the demand meter tapes. A general description of this is given. A few details of the physical installation are cited, which show the extreme care used through the whole installation. While this application is specifically designed for metering, the principles involved are applicable to numerous other uses, some of which are mentioned."
"This paper reviews the developments made in the impedance relay since its introduction in 1923. A brief review is given of its construction and operation. Special emphasis is placed on the methods of obtaining proper potential for the restraining elements without the use of high-tension potential transformers. The use of potential from condenser type bushings is discussed. To make possible the use of low-tension potential, methods of compensating for the voltage drop through power transformers and for the shifting of the secondary neutral point have been developed. These methods are described. Some special applications of the relay are also discussed."
"The early applications of automatic switching were confined principally to equipment which supplied or handled the outgoing power, such as conversion apparatus and outgoing feeders. As the field broadened and the capacity of the stations increased, it became necessary to provide for greater continuity of incoming power. In order to meet this requirement it has been customary to bring in two, and occasionally three, incoming lines. It is the purpose of this paper to describe briefly some of the more common forms of this type of automatic switching. By making a few minor modifications of the schemes which are described it has been possible to control automatically a complete loop or ring system. Balanced power or parallel incoming lines are quite common. Ordinarily two such lines are used, although as many as six have been contemplated. All lines are usually carrying power to the substation unless a fault has developed. When cleared of the fault, the line (or lines) is automatically replaced in service. In the case of the preferred-emergency type of equipment, it is customary for one line (the preferred) to carry the substation load. The second line (emergency or standby) takes this load upon failure of the first line. The application of these units to a system usually determines the sequence of operation between the two lines. A few typical combinations are described and illustrated. A brief description of automatic synchronizing and transformer switching has been included."
"The increased duty requirements of power station service require circuit breaker design to give maximum interrupting capacity in a minimum of space. Compact, relatively high-power breakers having all three poles in a single round tank have been designed, which, in addition to increase in the rating for a given space, give improved performance over types previously available. The relations of the current-carrying loops inside the breaker and the diversity factor afforded by the common oil volume and air space give superior results in operation. This type of design permits use in current ranges where decreased arc energy, as compared to power handled, can be secured."
"This paper is a continuation of a former one by the writer in May, 1926. Records are given of vibration in actual transmission lines under widely varying conditions and with various conductor materials. These observations indicate the limiting values of wavelength frequency and amplitude of such vibrations encountered in service. Laboratory experiments are described in which the observed conditions were artificially reproduced in a large conductor. The stresses adjacent to a point of support were studied with the aid of a microscope. The wave shape was plotted and the energy required to maintain vibration was recorded. All conductor vibration breaks observed in practise have occurred at supports or badly made joints. The conclusion is reached that if the radius of curvature at the support can be maintained at least equal to that at the center of a loop, no breakage wil occur. Mathematical expressions are given for determining the radius of curvature at the center of a loop, the bending moment at a support, and the necessary additional amount of conductor stiffness at the support to satisfy the desired condition. A simple form of stiffening device is described which even in a more crude form has been found effective in several cases of actual service."
"This paper discusses procedures followed in planning future extensions to telephone exchange plants to care for increased demand for telephone service. An outline is given of the methods employed in forecasting future demand for telephone service and in determining the most efficient design of the plant to meet the service requirements. The uses made of engineering comparisons in solving the economic phases of various kinds of telephone engineering problems are discussed, with particular reference to location and size or extent of major items of plant as well as the time whena they should be ready to give service. Emphasis is placed upon the importance of those factors less readily evaluated, such as service factors, practicability from a construction and operating standpoint, flexibility, etc."
"After a brief review of the need for reference standards in dielectric power-loss measurements at high voltage and commercial power frequencies, this paper describes a thermal method for measuring dielectric power loss in cable, utilizing the sheath temperature rise associated with the flow of heat due to the power loss within the sheath. Sources of error are discussed briefly, and results are given in comparison with measurements of dielectric power loss by the reflecting astatic electrodynamometer wattmeter using an air capacitor for phase-angle compensation. In connection with the investigation, certain possible errors in dynamometer measurements are noted, particularly the effect of humidity on power loss in the air capacitor."
"The paper describes further experiments on the drying and impregnating processes of impregnated paper insulation for high-voltage cables. Conclusions are reached as to the relative advantages of drying at atmospheric pressure and under vacuum. The qualities of the product are discussed from the standpoint of conductivity, dielectric absorption, and power factor. The influence of electric stress on impregnated paper and the progressive change in power factor under stress are studied in accelerated overvoltage tests. Evidence is presented as to the nature of certain interesting types of progressive change of power factor in their relation to the amount of residual air."
"A discussion is given of the insulation problem in relation to increased size, rating, and voltages of turbo alternators and some results of experimental studies given showing the possibilities of improving the insulation to take care of such increases. Mention is made of the effects of high voltage testing and the use of hydrogen on the insulation problem and finally an explanation of a device for the elimination of corona formed around armature coils."
"The paper is descriptive of the Gould St. Plant. Pulverized coal is prepared in a separate building. Only one boiler is provided per turbine, each boiler delivering a maximum of 520,000 pounds of steam per hour. Automatic control is provided for the electric drive of boiler auxiliaries, electric auxiliaries being used throughout the plant. 250 volt exciter and 460 volt house turbine are on main generator shaft. Switch house is of isolated phase construction with vertical operation of switches. Actual costs are given for the first unit, with estimated costs for completed plant, resulting in costs for the completed plant of $ 88 per kw. for normal output and $80 per kw. for maximum output."
"Developments in the central station art have been so rapid within the last few years that many of the recent outstanding stations differ considerably in major elements of design. In the following, are briefly outlined, high points of the analyses upon which the principal features of the Gould Street design were based."
"This paper deals with experiences in connection with the starting up and the initial operation of a steam-electric generating station, located at Baltimore, consisting of large cross-drum, sectional header, water tube boilers fitted with water cooled furnaces which are fired by pulverized coal. The plant operates at 450-lb. pressure with 725 deg. temperature steam, the turbines being fitted for four-stage bleeding. All auxiliaries are motor driven, the power being supplied either from direct-connected auxiliary generators, or from the main station bus bars through step-down transformers. This paper attempts to describe the major difficulties that were encountered in placing the plant in operation and outline the methods used in their elimination."
"The Philadelphia Electric Company, through its subsidiaries, has just completed construction of the Conowingo dam and powerhouse to develop the fall of the Susquehanna River from the tail-race of the Pennsylvania Water and Power Company's dam at Holtwood, Penna., to a point within four mi. of tidewater. This project ranks as one of the largest hydroelectric developments in the United States and is exceeded in size by the Niagara Falls development only. The speed of its construction, requiring less than two years from the start of construction operations to regular operation of the first units, is an outstanding achievement. In an average year, 1,250,000 kw-hr. will be delivered in Philadelphia at 220,000 volts, from the initial installation of seven 54,000-hp. water-wheel units, (ultimately to be increased to 11 such units), resulting in a saving of more than 750,000 tons of coal annually. These water-wheels and generators, together with the 27-ft. diameter butterfly valves installed as head gates, are the largest from the standpoint of physical dimensions yet constructed. The concrete dam of gravity type, 4630 ft. long, develops a normal head of 89ft., and has created a lake 14 mi. long. The spillway section, 2385 ft. long, has been designed to pass a maximum flood of 880,000 cu. ft. per sec. and is surmounted by movable crest gates for maintaining a constant head-water level. Relocation of 16 mi. of railroad together with many State and County roads and bridges was required in the acquisition of lands for the reservoir."
"The paper outlines the principal electrical features of the Conowingo development. This includes a description of the main units and their connections, and an outline of the station auxiliary supply and the 220,000-volt substation which it was necessary to build on the roof of the power plant. A description is included of the 220,000-volt substation at Plymouth Meeting, the Philadelphia terminus of the Conowingo lines, as well as the lines of the Pennsylvania-New Jersey Interconnection. At this substation are located the 30,000-kv-a. synchronous condensers installed for stability purposes, as well as a 66-kv. installation. Three winding 220/69/13.3-kv. self-cooled transformer banks of 130,000-kv-a. rating, arranged for tap changing under load, are installed here. A description is also included of the Westmoreland Substation where the 66-kv. lines from Plymouth Meeting tie in with the 66-kv. ``backbone'' of the Philadelphia Electric System. At this substation, 30,000-kv-a. synchronous condensers for power-factor correction are located, as is also an extensive 13,200-volt installation for controlling transmission lines to various distribution substations."
"Current from the Conowingo plant is carried fifty-eight miles to the Plymouth Meeting Substation of the Philadelphia Electric Company over two 220-kv. single-circuit steel-tower transmission lines. These lines are carried on a right-of-way which provides space for a third future line. The conductors are 795,000-cir. mil steel-reinforced aluminum. Each circuit is shielded by two 183,600-cir. mil aluminum steel-reinforced ground wires. The insulator strings consist of 14 high-strength units in suspension position and 16 units in strain position. Conductors and ground wires are carried in a new type of slip clamp in order to decrease the unbalanced longitudinal stresses on the towers in the event of wire breakage. In general, foundations are of the earth grillage type. The tower design includes a number of novel features, among them the use of combination extensions to meet flexibly the varying topographical conditions, and the narrow waist immediately below the basket."
"This paper describes the communication system which has been installed to serve the power plant at Conowingo, Maryland, and its associated transmission line. The important features to be considered in designing a telephone system for a power plant are pointed out. The types of telephone switchboard and telephone instruments chosen in this case to meet the special requirements of the generating station, together with the layout and cabling arrangement, are outlined. The paper also discusses the possible ways of providing for the needs of the load dispatcher and the plan adopted at Conowingo; the facilities provided the patrolmen for calling from points along the transmission line; the connection from the private branch exchange to the general telephone system; and the special electrical protection installed on the long lines leaving the power house."
"The quality of service that can be rendered during unavoidable system transients produced by short circuits must be given careful consideration in the analysis of proposed interconnection and transmission projects. An analysis of present systems that have grown until such limitations have apparently been reached, will frequently reveal comparatively inexpensive changes in equipment or operating practise which will permit good service to be given and defer large investments in additional lines for a considerable period. The fundamental mathematical methods for calculating system transients have been presented by other writers during the last few years. These mathematical calculations are of necessity qtite involved and consequently can only be applied to very simple power systems. The calculations must be made by thoroughly experienced engineers and the results are not readily understood by the operating staff. In the May 1926 issue of the Electric Journal, under the title ``A Mechanical Analogy to the Problem of Transmission Stability,'' Mr. S. B. Griscom proposed the use of an accurate equivalent mechanical analogy to the electrical system provided perfect springs for representing line reactance could be obtained. A simple mechanical model for qualitatively illustrating the fundamental principles has been demonstrated before various local A. I. E. E. sections and has resulted in a wide general knowledge of the transient behavior of power systems. The present paper covers the adaptation of the mechanical model principles to obtain reasonably accurate quantitative records of transients to be expected on the 220-kv. interconnection between the Philadelphia Electric Co."
"The characteristics of a squirrel-cage induction motor are investigated when the resistance rings are provided with cuts 360 electrical deg. apart and the cuts in the front ring are displaced against those in the back ring by 180 electrical deg. A theoretical investigation is given, which leads to the conclusion that splitting the rings results in an equivalent ring resistance which varies with double-slip frequency in the ratio of one to three; and the average ring resistance is twice what it was before the rings were cut. The variable rotor resistance effects a periodic fluctuation of the line current and rotor speed. The fluctuations have double-slip frequency. The theoretical conclusions are checked by tests and oscillograms. Test results show that the splitting of the rings is followed by increased rotor leakage, which results in a starting torque smaller than that corresponding to the increased resistance and original leakage."
"Since 1920, when the general subject of excitation systems was reviewed at the White Sulphur Springs Convention, two important problems regarding these systenms have arisen: One relates to the required excitation characteristics during system disturbances, and the other to the characteristics which are necessary in order to increase the maximumn power above the steady state or static limit-i. e., in order to operate the synchronous machines under the condition of dynamic stability. With respect to the former problem, the advantages and disadvantages of quick response excitation are considered. Such excitation tends, of course, to hold up the voltage during system disturbances, and is thus advantageous. However, it also increases the short-circuit current which circuit breakers must interrupt. The general trend in installing such systems is, therefore, in the direction, of requiring larger circuit breakers. Such an excitation systemn is justified in many cases, and, indeed, it is essential in some. The extent to which the quickness of response and the maximum value of the excitation voltage are carried, is a question which, at present, should be settled by the conditions of the particular case. As to increasing power limits, results are given which are very promising with respect not only to long distance transmission, but also to power systems which have approached the power limit as determinied by the condition of present normal operation. A new regulator, unique in its operating characteristic, has been."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Wound type current transformers installed in the tanks of high-voltage oil circuit breakers have been in operation for many years. The experience gained during this period has resulted in fairly clear definitions as to the types of installations to which they are best suited, and to designs of transformers which are highly reliable. The purpose of this paper is to present a brief history of some of the developments leading up to the present application of wound type current transformers in circuit breakers and to indicate some of the conditions under which they offer special advantages."
"Experience on high-voltage transmission lines has shown numerous failures of apparatus which have indicated a decided lack of coordination of the insulation strengths of the various parts of the transmission system. Apparatus offered by manufacturers for a given service shows wide variations in insulation values. Again the flashover and the breakdown values are not at present sufficiently standardized to be comparable among manufacturers of the same piece of apparatus. The standard tests on different types of apparatus are not properly correlated. This paper, besides discussing the above situation, points out the causes for the present status, and indicates the benefits to be derived by grading the insulation on the entire system. Predetermining the point of electrical breakdown on the system in the case of high voltage surges leads most logically to grading the insulation. This grading should result in fewer major service interruptions, with a localization of trouble on a link of the system where repairs can be made easily and inexpensively. The paper points out that additional information is required on surge voltage breakdown of insulation to solve the problem completely but shows that with the present information available a start in grading can be made. The different links in the transmission chain are tabulated according to their relative importance and with this as a starting point, the entire grading scheme is developed to the point of showing relative 60 cycle insulation strength required of the different apparatus used on a transmission system."
"This paper describes a new electrical instrument for automatically recording variations of electrical functions at high speed. The rate of chart motion is lower than that of the oscillograph so that the envelope of an a-c. wave is produced. This recorder has been successfully applied in the analysis of breakdowns on transmission lines, giving data used as the basis of securing improved selective relay protection and for other problems involving automatic high-speed recording."
"This paper deals with a graphic voltmeter for recording the magnitude and duration of system disturbances. It also deals with operating experiences with this device, together with the importance of the data obtained."
"Data for making preliminary estimates of speed of cars required and capacity of motor to do a given service have been rather limited. The object of this paper is to show a method whereby it is possible to provide curves which are simple to calculate and easy to apply. No mathematical formula has ever been derived to express the speed-time or current-time curves for a railway motor. Similarity between speed-time curves has been resorted to and this paper shows how this method can be used to give very accurate results by proper consideration of the various factors which influence the shape of the speed-time curve. Previous methods for estimating motor capacities are based on the horsepower of motor required, but with the advent of the self-ventilated and blown motors it is necessary to calculate the r. m. s. current for a given cycle and select a motor having this continuous rating. A method for doing this is proposed, based on similar current-time curves. The limiting values of average running speeds for given rates of acceleration and braking, and the data for obtaining motor capacity necessary at these limits are indicated on each curve. This helps one to visualize why it is not practicable to perform certain schedules on a fixed rate of acceleration and braking basis."
"Investigations into shunting of train control track circuits have been made in the field under operating conditions by observing the operation of the primary relay on a locomotive as a train runs into a track circuit in which there is a train ahead or an open switch and similar data have been obtained on the performance of the relay on trains in regular service. It is intended in this paper to present a method for predetermining the shunting characteristics of train control track circuits. The system discussed is a polyphase system of continuous inductive train control with cab signals employed on double tracked steam roads. Curves are given which describe shunting conditions in train control track circuits and data are also given for comparison describing the shunting of the track relay on the same sections of track."
"The study of physical and electrical characteristics of insulating materials is of growing importance to the electrical industry because of the ever increasing potentials employed in electric generating and distributing equipment. The particular problem presented in this paper is related to engineering practise because polarization and conduction both result in the conversion of electric energy into heat. This produces increased local and general heating, which may be contributing causes to the progressive deterioration and final breakdown of the insulation. The constant potential method explained in this paper provides a means for studying the inherent voltage-current-time relations which are masked in experiments using alternating applied potential. Part of the material contained in this paper was presented by the writer to the faculty of the Graduate School of Cornell University for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. The investigation was later continued with the joint support of the Hecksher Research Council and the General Electric Company. Several methods were tried for obtaining conducting surfaces on the specimens for constant potential tests. An improved method was devised for making tests and experimental results on four materials were obtained. Peculiar reversals were observed in the charge and discharge curves for fused quartz. The summary of experimental results is followed by suggestions for further research along similar lines."
"Several types of variable ratio frequency-changers are discussed and installations of such apparatus on the electrified section of the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad are described in some detail. These types of frequency-changers permit a flexible tie between interconnected systems, and accurate and automatic control of load regardless of variations in voltage or frequency in either system. Any desired constant load transfer in either direction may be obtained through the apparatus by manually setting a load regulating relay. Provision is made also for operating the sets as synchronous condensers to improve power factor. The functioning of regulating machines and auxiliary equipment to obtain the desired results is explained, together with a description of switching equipment installed in connection with the main units."
"This paper describes the effects experienced on the telephone circuits from the two mercury arc rectifier substations recently installed in Bridgeport, Conn., and shows in table form the relative magnitude of the interfering effects between rotating equipment and mercury arc rectifiers as a means of energizing the street railway system. The method and the type of apparatus used to reduce the effects experienced from the rectifiers are also described."
"This paper describes the Rocky River hydroelectric development of the Connecticut Light and Power Company, near New Milford, Connecticut, which is a storage development for regulating the Housatonic River below New Milford. There are no sites on the main river suitable for a large storage reservoir. It was therefore necessary to select a site on a tributary, the Rocky River. The run-off from the natural drainage area of the reservoir basin furnishes only a part of the water required to fill the reservoir, making it necessary to pump the balance from the Housatonic River against a maximum head of 240 ft. This is the first large application of pumped storage in the United States which accounts for the general interest shown in the Rocky River development. The first part of the paper deals with the factors which have to be considered in determining the economic possibilities of such a development. The second part of the paper is a description of the main features of the development itself."
"This paper and companion papers discuss the surge voltage investigation on six power systems in the lightning season of 1927. Valuable data have been secured as to the nature and polarity, magnitude, wave-front and attenuation of surges, also the effect of overhead ground wires, choke coils, and lightning arresters. Especially interesting is the attenuation formula A = k e2, the form of which indicates a close connection between attenuation and corona loss. Further investigations are being carried on in the present year to secure more complete and exact data on wave shape and attenuation, effect of ground wires, lightning arresters, and choke coils."
"An analysis of the surges recorded during 1927 on a 75-mi. 110-kv. double-circuit transmission line of the New England Power System is presented in this paper. The surges are classified according to cause of surge-voltage damping, extent, etc. General conclusions are drawn regarding the nature of surges and protection afforded by ground wires."
"During the past four years, the Consumers Power Company has been making studies of surge voltages on its 140-kv. system in Michigan. Previous Institute papers have summarized the results of these investigations up to the end of 1926. This paper describes the system, outlines the studies made during the summer of 1927, and presents the results obtained during that season."
"Data on the surge voltage investigation, carried out under the auspices of the Subcommittee on Lightning, on one of the 132-kv. lines of the American Gas and Electric Company during 1928, are presented. Most of the surges have been segregated as to cause, and plotted in summary form for more convenient use. The magnitude and character of recorded surges are discussed; and the conclusions drawn from data presented. Information on voltage surges due to lightning, switching, trip-outs, and unknown causes are presented, as well as records of lightning arrester discharge currents, voltages across choke coils, and on the ground wire. This paper is presented at this time to make available to the engineering profession some of the information obtained, before the report of the Subcommittee on Lightning is completed. As experimental work is still being done in the field during 1928, anything like a complete report cannot be made until next year."
"This paper presents the history of the operating experience and surge-voltage recorder data for the years 1926 and 1927, on the first 220-kv. line in the East. The system of the Pennsylvania Power & Light Company is described. Lightning weather data, design characteristics of the 220-kv. line involved, and details of connection and installation of surge-voltage recorders are given. The study shows the magnitude of surge voltages encountered, method of classification, effect of our overhead ground wires, etc., and points out the necessity for comprehensive lightning research, which will permit a systematic solution of transmission problems."
"High-speed circuit breakers have been successfully applied to d-c. railway systems for a number of years, but designs suitable for application on 12,000-volt single-phase systems have not been available until recently. A description of an air circuit breaker design suitable for 12,000-volt applications and having a speed of operation comparable with the d-c. type has been included. The method of applying the magnetic type of mechanism previously used for d-c. breakers to the a-c. type breaker has been described. The theory of the operation of the saturated transformer type of trip circuit used for this purpose has been given. Typical oscillograms of short circuit tests showing the high speed of operation on a-c. circuits are included. The method of obtaining selective operation in connection with railway feeder circuits has also been outlined. The use of this type of breaker on a 12,000-volt single-phase system makes possible the same degree of protection and selective operation as is now being realized on d-c. systems."
"This paper outlines the experience of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad with three high-speed oil circuit breakers which were installed in 1925 to serve an electrified branch line carrying freight and passenger traffic, both local and through. Satisfactory operation of paralleling commercial communication circuits, as well as of its own, presented an immediate problem, which after study outlined in the paper, finally yielded, and the answer, in part, was high-speed circuit breakers. The electrical and mechanical characteristics of these are set forth in detail and illustrated. A number of tests of the circuit breakers and communication circuits made by short-circuiting the 11,000-volt lines on the branch showed currents up to 3000 amperes, and openings in from one-half to one and one-half cycles, with satisfactory operation of commercial and railroad communication plant. A detailed record of the service operations of the circuit breakers along with a statement of failures is given. It is proper to say that the latter were more numerous in the early days of their use than they have been in recent months, and that a number of the faults are chargeable to the railroad's urgent need for the equipment, thereby considerably limiting the development and testing time desired by the manufacturer. While it was not discussed in detail in the paper it goes without saying that in the design and installation of the circuit breakers safety was a paramount consideration."
"This paper outlines the general requirements governing arrangements of distribution system and substation equipment for electrified railways. By way of illustration it presents a general description of the conversion and distribution facilities as recently installed in the electrification of the New York Connecting-Long Island Railroad to Bay Ridge, and in the electrification, now nearing completion, of the Philadelphia-Wilmington and West Chester lines of the Pennsylvania Railroad."
"This paper discusses the requirements for protecting the high-tension circuits of an electric car or locomotive which operates on the a-c. single-phase system of electrification. The means which must be employed to secure this protection is outlined. The types of relays used by the Pennsylvania Railroad for this purpose are described, together with the connected control circuits. These relays are known as pantograph lowering relays, and they make use of the opening of the substation breakers on a short circuit to disconnect the electrical equipment of the car or locomotive from the line by lowering the pantograph. Tests of high-speed relays recently developed indicate that these relays will give satisfactory service with high-speed circutit breakers in the trolley feeders at the substations. In conclusion, results justify the elimination of circuit breakers from electric cars and locomotives by the substitution of the pantograph lowering relay."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe briefly the distribution system of the Illinois Central Suburban Electrification and to state considerations influencing the selection of high-speed circuit breakers for d-c. feeder and machine protection. The knowledge gained by nearly two years' operating experience with this system, which contains 98 high-speed circuit breakers, and the conclusions reached, are also presented."
"The 100,000-volt transmission lines of the Public Service Company of Colorado, which were completed in 1909, extentded from the Shoshone hydro plant on the Colorado River across the Continental Divide to Denver and represent pioneering in high-voltage transmission at high altitudes. This combination of factors, coupled with a rapid expansion of the whole system in recent years called for the satisfactory solution of many problems. The paper describes the system in a general way, and outlines some of the more salient operating difficulties that have arisen from time to time as well as their remedies. Brief mention is also made of the method of load dispatching."
"This paper sets forth the features of squirreleage motor design which differentiate it from standard motors. Much of the paper is devoted to the two-speed motor with two separate stator windings having speed ratios of 2/1, 3/1, 4/1, and 6/1. The two-speed motor with a single winding is limited to the 2/1 ratio. Higher ratios are necessary for high elevator speed and low and accurate landing speed. The elevator motor is subjected to continual starting and stopping. The effects of inertia in such service are considered in connection with motor heating. The proper division of slot area between the two stator windings and the problem of building a rotor with proper characteristics on both speeds are explained. Noise elimination is necessary in elevator motors. The effect of this requirement in design is considered. The effect of rotor skew is compared to the effect of distributed winding in the stator. The quantitative effect of skew is embodied in a constant called ``skew factor.'' The possibility of transformer effects between the windings of a two-speed motor is explained and methods of correcting to eliminate circulating currents are indicated."
"This paper outlines the process of manufacture of steel pipe from flat rolled steel plates by automatic metallic arc welding. Data are given showing the physical and chemical analysis of the plate, the weld, and the welding wire, as well as the speed of welding and electrode and power consumption."
"With an ever increasing demand for poles used in the construction of power and communication lines, new sources of supply must be developed from time to time. Along the Rocky Mountain Range are found large stands of various species of timber suitable for the production of poles and so far not utilized to any appreciable extent. This paper outlines briefly the selection of lodgepole pine timber for this purpose, relates the past experience with such poles used in certain test lines, and describes in general the production and preservative treatment of the poles."
"A previous Institute paper in 1921 gave a very complete résumé of the activities of the Bell System at that time in the development of multiplex telephone and telegraph systems using carrier-current methods. A new type of carrier telegraph system was subsequently described in an Institute paper. In the present paper the authors describe developments which have resulted in improvements ments in the carrier telephone art since that time. A new, so-called type ``C'' system is described in detail, together with suitable repeaters and pilot channel apparatus for insuring the stability of operation: the line problems are considered and typical installations pictured. The growth of the application of carrier telephone systems and their increasingly important part in providing long distance telephone service on open-wire lines are shown."
"On railway or polyphase power systems having a multiplicity of parallel lines, there are unique possibilities in superimposing on the lines a frequency of the magnitude of 500 cycles, (together with the consequent apparatus), to gain selective protection under all fault conditions. The principle suggested is to measure the impedance of the power system with 500-cycle current and high-frequency relays, so placed that under abnormal conditions the impedance of a faulty line, as measured by the relays protecting that line only, is sufficiently low to cause circuit breaker operation. The advantages of such a protective system would be: 1. Perfect selectivity between parallel power lines, such that a faulty line may be isolated without disturbing other lines. 2. Instantaneous operation. S. Simultaneous operation of protective breakers at the two ends of a faulty line. 4. Protection of the line against short circuits or faults, but the avoidance of breaker operation on heavy overloads when the current rush may be greater than at short circuit. 5. A measure of the continuance of a fault, permitting automatic reclosing of circuit-breakers. This super-frequency control system brings to light a number of refreshing conceptions, and while it is not completely developed at this time, sufficient experimental work has been done to warrant presenting the results as a matter of technical interest."
"The transition from high conductivity to high resistivity which an a-c. arc undergoes on extinction is studied. Theory and approximate calculations are given for the rate of recovery of dielectric strength of the arc space for short arcs, and results are given of experiments on short arcs, and arcs in holes and slots in insulating material and insulating plates. The influence of chemical activity in arc gases is discussed. Factors contributing to the success of the a-c. oil circuit breaker are suggested."
"This paper describes a new type of generator developed to overcome certain limitations inherent in the shunt and the compound generator, when used for charging batteries by the constant potential, the modified constant potential, and the floating methods."
"There has been need in several fields of electrical engineering research for a means to study time relations, wave forms, and similar phenomena where only infinitesimal currents are obtainable. The limitations and advantages of several possible methods of investigation are briefly compared, and the conclusion reached that the ordinary oscillograph can be most profitably adapted to such work. The best form of vacuum tube amplifier for the work is then discussed, followed by a description of the steps taken in the design of a suitable resistance coupled amplifier. This amplifier is then described. The results of tests showing quality of reproduction are given in the form of oscillograms and a characteristic curve. The recommended procedure to be followed and the necessary precautions to be observed in the use of the amplifier are given, with a short discussion of the abilities and possibilities of the oscillograph in its widened field of usefulness."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper invites the attention of the engineering profession to the advantages and economies which may be obtained by coordinating both hydro and steam power stations of various kinds, and electric transmission and distribution lines serving a large industrial territory in a unified and centrally controlled system. For illustration, a general description of the generating and distribution system of the Duke Power Company, operating in the Piedmont section of the Carolinas, is given."
"High-speed circuit breakers have been successfully applied to d-c. railway systems for a number of years, but designs suitable for application on 12,000-volt single-phase systems have not been available until recently. A description of an air circuit breaker design suitable for 12,000-volt applications and having a speed of operation comparable with the d-c. type has been included. The method of applying the magnetic type of mechanism previously used for d-c. breakers to the a-c. type breaker has been described. The theory of the operation of the saturated transformer type of trip circuit used for this purpose has been given. Typical oscillograms of short-circuit tests, showing the high speed of operation on a-c. circuits, are included. The method of obtaining selective operation in connection with railway feeder circuits has also been outlined. The use of this type of breaker on a 12,000-volt single-phase system makes possible the same degree of protection and selective operation as is now being realized on d-c. systems."
"The transition from high conductivity to high resistivity which an a-c. arc undergoes on extinction is studied. Theory and approximate calculations are given for the rate of recovery of dielectric strength of the arc space for short arcs, and results are given of experiments on short arcs, and arcs in holes and slots in insulating material and insulating plates. The influence of chemical activity in arc gases is discussed. Factors contributing to the success of the a-c. oil circuit breaker are suggested."
"The inherent advantages of carrier-current telephony over high-voltage power transmission lines during the past five years have resulted in an unusually rapid development of this form of communication. To one who has not been constantly in touch with this rapid development, the necessity for the numerous types of carrier-current telephone equipment now available is not always apparent. This paper gives a brief outline of modern communication requirements in this field, the problems involved in providing this communication, and a brief outline of the different types of equipment now available to provide the required communication."
"The development of the commercial mercury arc rectifier is outlined briefly in this paper and the advantages which led to its adoption in a double-unit automatic station recently installed by the Los Angeles Railway are given. A report is made of the very satisfactory operation which has resulted. There is a description of the station, and the methods of operation and maintenance are presented."
"In view of the length of the complete report and the difficulty to condense its values into a four-page Journal abridgment, it has been decided to use the illustrations only, with the explanatory captions. Each illustration represents some unique feature of progress made during the year."
"The increased duty requirements of power station service require circuit-breaker design to give maximum interrupting capacity in a minimum of space. Compact, relatively high-power breakers, having all three poles in a single round tank, have been designed. In addition to increasing the rating for a stipulated space, these give improved performance over types previously available. The relations of the current-carrying loops inside the breaker and the diversity factor afforded by the common oil volume and air space give superior results in operation. This type of design permits use in current ranges where decreased arc energy, as compared to power handled, can be secured."
"Power-line carrier telephone systems have been in operation in this country for the past six years. This form of communication may be used either as a primary means of telephone service for the transaction of dispatching and other business, or it may be employed chiefly as an emergency service to supplement facilities the power company already has at its disposal."
"Mercury arc rectifiers alone supply the power for the electric railway system at Bridgeport, Connecticut. In this paper are given an account of the rectifier substations and some reports of the operating experience during the last several months since the stations were completed."
"To the Board of Directors: During the past year, marked progress has been made in the application of electric welding to an increasing number of industrial uses including welding of pipe, pipe lines, structures and cracking stills for gasoline production. A few outstanding applications are mentioned by way of example in the following paragraphs."
"This paper describes the communication system which has been installed to serve the power plant at Conowingo, Maryland, and its associated transmission line. The important features to be considered in designing a telephone system for a power plant are pointed out. The types of telephone switchboard and telephone instruments chosen in this case to meet the special requirements of the generating station, together with the layout and cabling arrangement, are outlined. The paper also discusses the possible ways of providing for the needs of the load dispatcher and the plan adopted at Conowingo; the facilities provided the patrolmen for calling from points along the transmission line; the connection from the private branch exchange to the general telephone system; and the special electrical protection installed on the long lines leaving the power house."
"To the Board of Directors: The application of electricity to transportation proceeded during 1927 at a healthy rate, and new developments in apparatus and equipment continued, several interesting applications being introduced during the year."
"In selecting a frequency converter, there are many things which should receive special study and consideration in order that the equipment obtained will meet the necessary requirements in the best possible way."
"Developments in the central station art have been so rapid within the last few years that many of the recent outstanding stations differ considerably in the major elements of design. In the following are briefly outlined high points of the analyses upon which the principal features of the Gould Street station design were based."
"Current from the Conowingo plant is carried fifty-eight miles to the Plymouth Meeting Substation of The Philadelphia Electric Company over two 220-kv. single-circuit steel-tower transmission lines. These lines are carried on a right-of-way which provides space for a third future line. The conductors are 795,000-cir. mil steel-reinforced aluminum. Each circuit is shielded by two 183,600-cir. mil aluminum steel-reinforced ground wires. The insulator strings consist of 14 high-strength units in suspension position and 16 units in strain position. Conductors and ground wires are carried in a new type of slip clamp in order to decrease the unbalanced longitudinal stresses on the towers in the event of wire breakage. In general, foundations are of the earth grillage type. The tower design includes a number of novel features, among them the use of combination extensions to flexibly meet the varying topographical conditions, and the narrow waist immediately below the basket."
"To the Board of Directors: The Committee on Electrochemistry and Electrometallurgy makes its annual report."
"This paper develops a formula for calculating the capacitance between two wires of a three-conductor cable. A direct method of calculation is employed, based on the work of Doctor H. B. Dwight. This method gives accurate results independent of empirical or restricted premises."
"A most interesting program particularly attractive to members in the South has been arranged for the Regional Meeting which will be held October 29–31 in Atlanta, Ga., with headquarters at the Atlanta-Biltmore Hotel."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Recent student meetings and related events are listed."
"Irving W. Phillips, formerly electrical engineer with Perry and Whipple, is now with Knight C. Richmond, engineer and architect, Providence, R. I."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 1216 Engineering Bldg., 205 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 WEST 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"In the problem of inductive coordination of power and communication systems, residual voltages and currents in the power lines are an important element; yet it is apparent that they are not, in general, well understood. Studies have been made, and others are under way by well-equipped organizations, which will add much to the data concerning them. In this paper the general principles which apply are reviewed briefly and applied to typical power circuits and networks, and oscillograms are shown which verify the theory presented."
"To the Board of Directors: Your committee is pleased to present the following statement covering the progress of development in applications in the iron and steel industry during the year ending July 31, 1928."
"This paper outlines the general requirements governing arrangements of distribution system and substation equipment for electrified railways. By way of illustration, it presents a general description of the conversion and distribution facilities as recently installed in the electrification of the New York Connecting Railroad-Long Island Railroad to Bay Ridge, and in the electrification, now nearing completion, of the Philadelphia-Wilmington and West Chester lines of the Pennsylvania Railroad."
"The study of physical and electrical characteristics of insulating materials is of growing importance to the electrical industry because of the ever-increasing potentials employed in electric enerating and distributing equipment. The particular problem presented in this paper it related to engineering practise because polarization and conduction both result in the conversion of electric energy into heat. This produces increased local and general heating, which may be contributing causes to the progressive deterioration and final breakdown of the insulation. The constant potential method explained in this paper provides a means for studying the inherent voltage-current-time relations which are masked in experiments using alternating applied potential. Part of the material contained in this paper was presented by the writer to the faculty of the Graduate School of Cornell University for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. The investigation was later continued with the joint support of the Heckscher Research Council and the General Electric Company. Several methods were tried for obtaining conducting surfaces on the specimens for constant potential tests. An improved method was devised for making tests and experimental results on four materials were obtained. Peculiar reversals were observed in the charge and discharge curves for fused quartz. The summary of experimental results is followed by suggestions for further research along similar lines."
"To the Board of Directors: The principal work of the Committee this year has been first, — arranging for and the actual preparation of papers for presentation at meetings of the Institute, of which there have been one or more presented at practically every meeting of the Institute, and second, — the work of standardization, the result of which is reported below."
"This paper and companion papers discuss the surge voltage investigation on six power systems in the lightning season of 1927. Valuable data have been secured as to the nature and polarity, magnitude, wave-front and attenuation of surges; also the effect of overhead ground wires, choke coils, and lightning arresters. Of special interest is the attenuation formula A = k e2, the form of which indicates a close connection between attenuation and corona loss. Further investigations are being carried on in the present year to secure more complete and exact data on wave shape and attenuation, effect of ground wires, lightning arresters, and choke coils."
"This paper describes a fundamental principle of thermionic gas tube operation, by which cathode disintegration may be entirely avoided; and a new type of cathode which requires much less heat energy than any hitherto used. With these improvements hot cathode gas tubes appear to be practical, and their fundamental characteristics as lamps, rectifiers, and “thyratrons” are briefly described."
"The paper gives first a brief history of the series of improvements to better operating conditions over the Cascade Range which have been undertaken by the Great Northern Railway since the line was put in operation in 1893. The paper next gives (Part II) a description and the principal operating characteristics of the motor-generator type of locomotives now in service on the electrified section from Skykomish (Washington) to Cascade Tunnel Station, and to be used through the new tunnel and extension of electrification to Wenatchee when work now in progress is completed. Part III gives a description of the electric transmission and distribution system along the railroad line with particular emphasis on the relay protection designed to guard the system so far as practicable against interruption of power supply at the locomotives. Part IV describes the three-point power supply and includes a description of the frequency converter stations at Skykomish and Wenatchee for converting the 110,000-volt, 60-cycle, three-phase power purchased at these points to 25-cycle, single-phase power required for the traction service."
"This paper describes the recently constructed electrolytic zinc plant of the Sullivan Mining Company, located near Kellogg, Idaho. The first unit which has just been completed has a capacity of 50 tons of slab zinc per day. Provision has been made for two additional units which will bring the capacity up to 150 tons per day. The “Tainton-Pring” electrolytic process, which uses strong acid for leaching and high-current density for electrolysis, is employed in this plant. The metallurgical process and the physical layout of the plant are briefly described, after which there follows a general discussion of the electrical features."
"This paper presents the history of the operating experience and surge voltage recorder data for the years 1926 and 1927, on the first 220-kv. line in the east. The system of the Pennsylvania Power & Light Company is described. Lightning weather data, design characteristics of the 220-kv. line involved, and details of connection and installation of surge voltage recorders are given. The study shows the magnitude of surge voltages encountered, method of classification, effect of our overhead ground wires, etc., and points out the necessity for comprehensive lightning research, which will permit a systematic solution of transmission problems."
"The heat resistance of the soil surrounding underground cable ducts is usually large, and the path of the heat through the soil is not simple, especially when there are several adjacent ducts. This heat resistance and the path of the heat flow may be determined graphically, but except in the simpler cases, this method becomes very difficult. The heat resistance of any one of several ducts can be calculated theoretically by making assumptions of unknown magnitudes. To check these calculations by testing actual installations would be slow and expensive. Advantage may be taken of the similarity between the flow of heat and the flow of electricity to set up and test the electrical equivalent of any duct system. In this way, the theoretical results can be checked readily with a minimum outlay of equipment. Results obtained by this method show the theoretical calculations to be accurate even for close spacing and also give a picture of the actual path of the heat from a group of several ducts. Thus, the heat resistance of a duct may be found quite accurately if the specific heat resistance of the soil is known."
"Variable speed drive for ring spinning frames, used in making yarns, has many advantages provided the driving mechanism has certain suitable characteristics. In this paper, the conditions which must be met are outlined, and it is shown that the most satisfactory method of drive is by means of the a-c., three-phase, shunt-characteristic, brush-shifting variable-speed motor."
"The paper is descriptive of the Gould St. Plant. Pulverized coal is prepared in a separate building. Only one boiler is provided per turbine, each boiler delivering a maximum of 520,000 lb. of steam per hour. Automatic control is provided for the electric drive of boiler auxiliaries, electric auxiliaries being used throughout the plant; a 250-volt exciter and 460-volt house turbine are on main generator shaft. Switch house is of isolated phase construction with vertical operation of switches. Actual costs are given for the first unit, with estimated costs for completed plant, resulting in costs for the completed plant of $88 per kw. for normal output and $80 per kw. for maximum output."
"In 1777, one hundred and fifty-one years ago, Dr. George Christoph Lichtenberg, Professor of Physics in the University of Göttingen, observed that under certain conditions an electric discharge produced curious and strangely beautiful figures. Lichtenberg's apparatus and circuit arrangement were very simple and can readily be reproduced. Place a pane of glass on a metal plate connected through a spark-gap to the outside coating of a Leyden jar. Connect the tinfoil on the inside of the jar to a metallic electrode, touching the upper surface of the glass plate. When the Leyden jar is discharged, figures are produced on the glass surface around the point of contact of the electrode. These figures may be made visible by sifting some light powder, (such as lycopodium), over the glass surface. By using flower of sulphur and finely powdered red lead, or other colored powders, the different shapes of the negative and positive figures may be shown in an impressive manner. With the discovery of photography almost a century after Lichtenberg's day, a much more convenient method was obtained for visualizing the phenomena. In 1888, J. Brown and E. T. Trouvelet found that figures similar to those obtained by Lichtenberg could be obtained photographically by replacing the glass or rubber plate with a photographic plate; the emulsion side being placed in contact with the electrode. On developing the exposed plate, very beautiful figures were obtained. As the photographic plate makes a permanent record greatly superior to the dust figures, the latter are seldom used, and the photographic records are generally referred to as Lichtenberg figures although photographic Lichtenberg figures would be more specific. (To give a general view of the phenomena discussed, a number of typical positive and negative Lichtenberg figures for various forms of impressed electric surges or impulses were shown on the screen. The true Lichtenberg figures were differentiated from figures produced by brush discharges and glide sparks.)"
"On the evening of Tuesday, November 13th, the New York Section of the Institute will hold its first meeting of the administrative year 1928–29. Dr. Karl K. Darrow, of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, will give a lecture on “Crystals and Waves.” This address of a semi-popular character, will be an account of the interactions of crystals with X-rays and electrons, showing that crystals are periodic arrangements of atoms and that electrons and X-rays are periodic similar waves. The talk will be illustrated with lantern slides."
"The Engineering Societies Library is suffering under the same strain to balance service and income as every college and university. In ten years the number of users has more than doubled and the total expense has risen accordingly."
"Carl C. Nelson has resigned from the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co. at East Pittsburgh, Pa. to identify himself with the Electric Machinery Company, Minneapolis, Minn."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Recent student meetings and related events are listed."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 1216 Engineering Bldg., 205 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 WEST 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary: temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Presents the title page for this issue of the publication."
"The opening article in the JOURNAL for November, 1927, gave an outline of the changes proposed for the publications of the A. I. E. E. and these changes were adopted by the Board of Directors at its meeting on December 16th, after a careful canvas of the situation by the Publication Committee. They are being put into effect as rapidly as possible and it is expected the new plans will be in full operation within the next two months."
"Actual operating results and experiences with a mercury arc rectifier feeding a railroad are given in this paper. The rectifier is compared with synchronous converters in regard to efficiency, troubles, maintenance and other points."
"A new form of oscillograph for recording fault currents and their voltage disturbing effects in electric power systems is described. Representative records are analyzed and further applications of the instrument are suggested."
"This paper is a general description of the interconnected power systems in the region surrounding and including Chicago as a center. The electrical energy generated in this region in 1926 was over 4,000,000,000 kw-hr. and the combined generating capacity of the three largest companies was 1,340,000 kw. The paper outlines important features of major stations and transmission and distribution systems and gives plans for the future developments. It also explains the contract for interchange of energy among the three largest companies."
"This paper covers investigations made in undertaking the design of a rectifier for use as the B power supply for radio receivers. It determines the most satisfactory type of filter circuit and the appropriate values of inductance and capacitance to give a d-c. output delivered with the least practicable voltage drop and having no fluctuations of sufficient magnitude to interfere with the proper operation of the set. A vacuum-tube peak voltmeter used to detect very small fluctuations is described."
"In this paper the comparatively recent discovery of generator instability is discussed. A method of testing synchronous machinery in the unstable as well as in the stable range is described. The results of tests performed on two machines is shown and discussed. The conclusion is drawn that the design of customary machines will have to be improved, synchronous condensers installed on many long lines, or inefficient underloading of units will have to be tolerated."
"At the end of the year 1926 the High-Voltage Laboratory of the Electrotechnical Institute in Leningrad undertook an experimental research in order to study the influence of internal vacua and ionization on the life duration of paper insulated high-voltage cables, as well as to clear up the conditions under which such vacua may occur. W. A. Del Mar3 drew attention to the importance of internal vacua in high-voltage cables and pointed out the three probable causes of their appearance, namely: 1. Temperature changes after installation of the cable, which produce a change of volume of air and oil in the cable in view of the different thermal expansion coefficient of lead and insulation of the cable. 2. Residual deformations, occurring when the cable is put on a reel and taken off it afterwards. 3. Changes in chemical structure in the impregnating compound under the influence of ionized air, which produce a decrease of volume of the compound. The aim of the research was to clear up the part of the above mentioned causes in the formation of internal vacua, then to determine the values of those vacua and the decrease of life duration of the cable under the influence of the latter. The research is not yet finished and only its preliminary results are reported on these pages."
"The general solution to the slightly damped network is expressed in terms of the undamped solution by means of series expansions. The first part of the paper gives a method for evaluating the complex roots of the determinantal equation, and the second part shows how the expansions of the first part may be correlated with the Heaviside formula to form the complete approximate solution. An example illustrates the application to a simple network."
"The principle of superposition, discussed first for dielectrics by Hopkinson, has been shown for a long time in experiment. However, its validity for the several theories which have been advanced for dielectric behavior has been shown in only a few cases. One of the exceptions is the important theory of Maxwell.2 This paper shows that the principle of superposition is a necessary consequence of Maxwell's theory. It goes somewhat further and shows that the principle is valid for any theory which leads to a system of linear differential equations with constant coefficients."
"This paper described the telephone toll system in the region within a radius of about 50 mi. from Chicago. In this system have been established 21 toll centers at which are handled the toll traffic of their own exchanges and 95 other exchanges in the area. Descriptions are given of the toll plan and the toll plant, methods of handling toll calls, volume of traffic handled, etc. A most important consideration is the very rapid growth taking place in toll-service requirements in this region."
"M. R. Sullivan: Speaking as a telephone traffic engineer, I should like to endorse what Mr. Chamberlin has said with respect to the traffic features involved in advance planning of telephone toll plants."
"An A. I. E. E. Winter Convention of outstanding interest and importance is promised in the program planned for the 1928 meeting which will be held February 13–17 with headquarters at the Engineering Societies Building, New York City. Technical sessions of highest merit, lectures, inspection trips, medal presentations and social features have been planned which will surely draw a large attendance."
"The Annual Meeting of the Assembly of American Engineering Council will be held in Washington, D. C., January 10, 1928. The Administrative Board for 1927 will hold its last meeting the afternoon of January 9th. The Mayflower Hotel will be the headquarters for the Meeting. The Annual Dinner of the Council will be held on the evening of January 10th. The honor guest and principal speaker this year will be Sir Esme Howard, Ambassador from Great Britain to the United States. Many other notables will be present. All meetings held under the auspices of American Engineering Council are open to the public, and especially are all members of member-organizations invited to attend."
"The Engineering Foundation aims to undertake the class of researches that individuals, industrial organizations, colleges, and governmental bureaus are not likely to choose. Certain much-needed fundamental investigations can best be initiated or organized by such an institution as the Foundation. Great care is taken not to infringe on ground that can best be explored by spontaneous, individualistic effort."
"OSWALD DALE, for the past six years in charge of development engineering, sales of varnished insulations and radio products for the Acme Wire Co., New Haven, Conn., has now been chosen vice-president of The Wheeler Insulated Wire Company, Bridgeport, Conn."
"Unified Transportation for Boston, by W. S. Kelley, Consulting Engineer. November 8. Attendance 200."
"The first day of the Regional Meeting of the Great Lakes District, held at Chicago November 28–30, 1927, was devoted to a Student Convention consisting of a technical session during the morning, a District Conference on Student Activities in the afternoon, and a smoker in the evening. Extensive plans had been made for the morning and afternoon sessions under the leadership of Professor J. F. H. Douglas, Chairman of the District Committee on Student Activities, who presided at both meetings."
"The library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is adminstered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blvd., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"ALBERT, CHARLES, Cable Inspection, Electrical Testing Laboratories, 80th St. & East End Ave., New York; for mail, Brooklyn, N. Y."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Henry H. Humphrey, vice-president of the Institute 1906–1908 was born June 23, 1862, at Coolville, Ohio, and was graduated from Ohio University, Athens, Ohio, in 1884 with the degree of A. B. The following year he took post-graduate work in electrical engineering at Cornell; in 1886 he received the degree of M. S. from that college. The summer vacations of 1884 and 1885 were spent on United States Coast and Geodetic Survey work in southern Ohio."
"The 100,000-volt transmission lines of the Public Service Company of Colorado, which were completed in 1909, extended from the Shoshone hydro plant on the Colorado River across the Continental Divide to Denver and represent pioneering in high-voltage transmission at high altitudes. This combination of factors, coupled with a rapid expansion of the whole system in recent years, called for the satisfactory solution of many problems. The paper describes the system in a general way, and outlines some of the more salient operating difficulties that have arisen from time to time, as well as their remedies. Brief mention is also made of the method of load dispatching."
"Principles to be followed in transmission-line construction in order to reduce damage from lightning are recommended in this paper. The major recommendations are as follows: (1) Keep transmission conductors low and arrange horizontally, (2) use ground wires, (3) use sufficient insulation but of a sufficiently low value near stations to protect apparatus, (4) install lightning arresters at the transformers. The arguments leading to these recommendations are outlined in the paper."
"Experience on high-voltage transmission lines has shown numerous failures of apparatus which have indicated a decided lack of coordination of the insulation strengths of the various parts of the transmission system. Apparatus offered by manufacturers for a given service shows wide variations in insulation values. Again the flashover and the breakdown values are not at present sufficiently standardized to be comparable among manufacturers of the same piece of apparatus. The standard tests on different types of apparatus are not properly correlated. Besides discussing the above situation, this paper points out the causes for the present status and indicates the benefits to be derived by grading the insulation on the entire system. Predetermining the point of electrical breakdown on the system in the case of high voltage surges leads most logically to grading the insulation. This grading should result in fewer major service interruptions, with a localization of trouble on a link of the system where repairs can be made easily and inexpensively. The paper points out that additional information is required on surge-voltage breakdown of insulation to solve the problem completely but shows that with the present information available a start in grading can be made. The different links in the transmission chain are tabulated according to their relative importance and with this as a starting point, the entire grading scheme is developed to the point of showing relative 60-cycle insulation strength required of the different apparatus used on a transmission system. It is shown; 1, that at the present time transmission systems in general, are designed without proper consideration from the standpoint of surge voltages which may be imposed upon them; 2, that the grading scheme proposed is possible, although requiring additional operating data and data from the manufacturers to be fully effective; 3, that grading should result in less costly designs and installations; 4, that the net effect will be better performance of the transmission system in service."
"With an ever-increasing demand for poles used in the construction of power and communication lines new sources of supply must be developed from time to time. Along the Rocky Mountain Range are found large stands of various species of timber suitable for the production of poles and so far not utilized to any appreciable extent. This paper outlines briefly the selection of lodgepole pine timber for this purpose, relates the past experience with such poles used in certain test lines, and describes in general the production and preservative treatment of the poles."
"The paper outlines the principal electrical features of the Conowingo development. This includes a description of the main units and their connections, an outline of the station auxiliary supply, and the 220,000-volt substation which it was necessary to build on the roof of the power plant. A description is included of the 220,000-volt substation at Plymouth Meeting, the Philadelphia terminus of the Conowingo lines, as well as the lines of the Pennsylvania-New Jersey Interconnection. At this substation are located the 30,000-kv-a. synchronous condensers installed for stability purposes, as well as a 66-kv. installation. Three-winding, 220/69/13.3-kv. self-cooled transformer banks of 100,000-kv-a. rating, arranged for tap changing under load, are installed here. A description is also included of the Westmoreland Substation where the 66-kv. lines from Plymouth Meeting tie in with the 66-kv. “backbone” of The Philadelphia Electric System. 30,000-kv-a. synchronous condensers for power-factor correction are located at this substation, as is also an extensive 13,200-volt installation for controlling transmission lines to various distribution substations."
"The unusual features of the design and construction of the dam, power station, and hydraulic equipment, together with a general description of the entire project, are included in this article."
"This paper deals, in a general way, with the several systems of automatic block signaling, particularly the a-c. system, and the apparatus commonly used to insure continuity of power supply. It covers briefly the older phases of the subject and more specifically the later applications. The most modern system of continuous inductive train control, the code system, has required the development of frequency-converting apparatus for this use. Within the past three years, a number of frequency-converting automatic substations has been installed by the railway companies. The class of apparatus used in these stations is discussed, including some details of installations on the Pennsylvania and Long Island Railroads."
"There seems to be a certain amount of uncertainty among authors as to just what is a correct definition of resonance in a parallel circuit such as shown of Fig. 1. The most common definition is that resonance is that condition which makes the total reactance, or susceptance, equal to zero. This is the condition for unity power factor. In some definitions the further condition is added that at resonance the total impedance of the circuit is a maximum. The A. I. E. E. Standardization Rules,1 for instance, say that resonance is the condition of maximum impedance obtained by varying L or C, and nothing is said about zero reactance or unity power factor. These differences in definitions have led to this investigation."
"To the Board of Directors: The Committee on Communication submits the following report as a summary of the progress which has been made in the electrical communication art during the past year."
"In hydroelectric surveys it is difficult to fix the positions of the soundings when the survey ship is beyond the range of visibility of shore objects; the radio-acoustic method is designed to help in meeting this difficulty. Temporary shore stations are set up, each equipped with a microphone placed in the water in a known position and connected with an amplifier ashore through a cable; the amplifier is in turn connected through a relay to an automatic key driven by clockwork, which causes a radio transmitter to send out a characteristic signal whenever the microphone is disturbed. When the position of the ship is wanted, a small bomb is fired in the water alongside the ship; the instant of the explosion is automatically recorded on a chronograph aboard the ship. The sound of the explosion disturbs the shore station microphone and the resulting characteristic radio signals of the shore stations are received on board the ship and also recorded on the chronograph. Thus the ship obtains the time of travel of sound in water from her position to each of the shore station microphones, which are in known positions. The speed of sound in sea water being known, the ship's position is thus fixed. The method has been used successfully in the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey with the ship 75 mi. or more away from the shore stations. A device for quick plotting on the field sheet is described. The accuracy of the method is discussed."
"It is a well-known fact that the electrical field in any hollow or cavity in a solid conductor is either zero or very nearly approaches zero. This follows directly from the inverse-square law."
"To the Board of Directors: In addition to conducting its usual activities during the current year, this Committee has endeavored to establish a closer contact with those committees of other organizations whose interests lie in a large measure within the field with which it is concerned. It was felt that such cooperation would be mutually beneficial and through the medium of the Institute publications would result in the presentation of some material of general interest which would otherwise receive only limited circulation. It is believed that the present report has benefited very materially by this policy."
"To the Board of Directors: This Report was compiled by the members of the Committee, assisted by about 35 experts who contributed material or passed upon statements embodied in the report, which will be printed in full in the Institute's T RANSACTIONS. Following is a review of its general features."
"The program of the Regional Meeting to be held at Atlanta, Ga., with headquarters at the Atlanta Biltmore, October 29–31, has now taken definite shape. Four technical sessions, one general session and a Student session are scheduled. Inspection trips and entertainment are also being planned. The complete program is given below."
"Will E. Melarkey, formerly of Oakland, Calif., has removed to Honolulu where after October 1, he will represent the General Electric Company, with W. A. Ramsay, Ltd."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 1216 Engineering Bldg., 205 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 WEST 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"For many years the A. I. E. E. Summer Conventions have presented programs in which the technical features and the entertainment and social features have been pretty evenly balanced, and the program of the Denver Convention, printed in this issue, is no exception to this rule. The advantage of acquaintantship and social intercourse among the membership is obvious and was recognized when the Board of Directors many years ago ruled that the technical sessions at Summer Conventions should be confined to the mornings, leaving the balance of each day for entertainment and amusements."
"On railway or polyphase power systems having a multiplicity of parallel lines, there are unique possibilities in superimposing on the lines a frequency of the magnitude of 500 cycles, (together with the consequent apparatus), to gain selective protection under all fault conditions. The principle suggested is to measure the impedance of the power system with 500-cycle current and high-frequency relays, so placed that under abnormal conditions, the impedance of a faulty line, as measured by the relays protecting that line only, is sufficiently low to cause circuit breaker operation. The advantages of such a protective system would be: 1. Perfect selectivity between parallel power lines, such that a faulty line may be isolated without disturbing other lines. 2. Instantaneous operation. 3. Simultaneous operation of protective breakers at the two ends of a faulty line. 4. Protection of the line against short circuits or faults, but the avoidance of breaker operation on heavy overloads when the current rush may be greater than at short circuit. 5. A measure of the continuance of a fault, permitting automatic reclosing of circuit-breakers. This super-frequency control system brings to light a number of refreshing conceptions, and while it is not completely developed at this time, sufficient experimental work has been done to warrant presenting the results as a matter of technical interest."
"This paper outlines the process of manufacture of steel pipe from flat rolled steel plates by automatic metallic arc welding. Data are given showing the physical and chemical analysis of the plate, the weld, and the welding wire, as well as the speed of welding and electrode and power consumption."
"During the last few years there has been a very rapid increase in the rating of turbine generators. A considerable amount of development work has been necessary in order to make these increases possible, and this paper gives a summary of the problems which have been encountered, and solved, by engineers of the Westinghouse Elec. et Mfg. Co. The present status of the design of turbine generators is given, and the probable directions of future developments are indicated."
"Great progress has been made. Interconnection between independent systems is primarily a protective measure, but the greatest economic benefits have been realized when the interconnections have been made by subsidiary companies of one holding company. The capacity of tie lines and the amount of power interchanges has developed greatly. The size of generating units has increased, as has the size of power plants, resulting in lowered cost per kw. The problem of satisfactory voltage and power factor control has increased in complexity as has that of system load dispatching. While much improvement has been made in oil circuit breakers, they still leave much to be desired. Interconnection has made possible more economical operation of existing plants and has resulted in the use of a larger proportion of the available water on systems combining steam, storage, and run-of-river hydroelectric plants. Long-time forecasting of load and rainfall conditions is important in economical system planning. The 110-kv. and 154-kv. line construction is discussed; also the value of ground wires and lightning arresters. The growing importance of carrier current for supervisory control and communication and their application are reviewed."
"The fundamental mathematical methods for calculating system transients have been presented by other writers during the last few years. These mathematical calculations are of necessity quite involved and consequently can be applied only to very simple power systems. In the May 1926 issue of the Electric Journal, under the title “A Mechanical Analogy to the Problem of Transmission Stability” Mr. S. B. Griscom proposed the use of an accurate equivalent mechanical analogy to the electrical system provided perfect springs for representing line reactance could be obtained. The present paper covers the adaptation of the mechanical model principles to obtain reasonably accurate quantitative records of transients to be expected on the 220-kv. interconnection between the Philadelphia Electric Co., Pennsylvania Power & Light Co., and the Public Service Electric & Gas Co. These records are obtained by taking motion pictures of the equivalent mechanical system. Resistance or reactance short circuits on transmission lines are duplicated mechanically by applying forces of the proper magnitude and direction to the spring representing the line in trouble, and clearing this spring at each end by blowing fusible links from relays timed to represent the circuit breaker operations on the electrical system."
"The early applications of automatic switching were confined principally to equipment which supplied or handled the outgoing power; such as conversion apparatus and outgoing feeders. As the field broadened and the capacity of the stations increased it became necessary to provide for greater continuity of incoming power. In order to meet this requirement it has been customary to bring two, and occasionally three, incoming lines. It is the purpose of this paper to describe briefly some of the more common forms of this type of automatic switching. By making a few minor modifications of the schemes which are described it has been possible to automatically control a complete loop or ring system. Balanced power or parallel incoming lines are quite common. Ordinarily two such lines are used, although as many as six have been contemplated. All lines are usually carrying power to the substation unless a fault has developed. When cleared of the fault, the line (or lines) is automatically replaced in service. In case of the preferred — emergency — type of equipment, it is customary for one line (the preferred) to carry the substation load. The second line (emergency or standby) takes this load upon failure of the first line. The application of these units to a system usually determines the sequence of operation between the two lines. A few typical combinations are described and illustrated. A brief description of automatic synchronizing and transformer switching has been included."
"To understand the effect of surface materials on metallic arc welding electrodes, something must be known as regards the fundamental theory of arc heat distribution, arc vapor resistance and similar matters which are modified by the presence of surface materials. The character of the arc may be changed by chemical and structural variations in the surface materials. Stability is one such arc characteristic. Two types of stability are recognized, — chemical and electrical. Surface materials have a significant influence on the brittleness or ductility of weld metal. They also can be used to control the arc type, four such types being recognized. The influence of surface materials on the heating of electrodes is another phase of the matter of practical significance. Surface materials may be employed to control both the operating characteristics of the electrode and the resultant weld properties. Among the operating characteristics might be mentioned stability and rate of melting. Among the weld properties are included freedom from blow-holes and tensile strength. These and other practical applications of a comprehensive knowledge of surface materials are cited in this paper."
"FREQUENTLY, it becomes necessary for various reasons to study the relations between the output and the plant capacity of part of an electric system as distinguished from the whole capacity and the whole load. For example, it may be desired in a system of, say, 100,000-kw. capacity, to know how many kilowatt-hours will be absorbed by the load between the 50,000-kw. and 75,000-kw. loads, or how many kilowatt-hours lie below or above the 50,000-kw. line. One instance when such information is valuable is in estimating fuel cost for a year in the future. When operating steam plants where the system contains units of higher and lower fuel economies and where it is desired to get the greatest use out of the more efficient units and hold those of lower efficiencies for peak loads, the course can well be to forecast the output of each kind of plant and to predict the amount of fuel to be required by each."
"This paper discusses the interconnection between three of the leading power supply company's in the eastern part of the country, the Philadelphia Electric Co., the Pennsylvania Power & Light Co. and the Public Service Electric & Gas Co. It outlines the physical aspects of the tie-in between the companies which is a 220-kv. ring of high-load capacity, triangular in shape with sides respectively 49 mi., 82 mi., and 77 mi. long. The advantages of the interconnection are enumerated as well as some of the operating problems. Preliminary to the discussion of the interconnection the paper discusses the Conowingo hydroelectric project, an important factor in the interconnection scheme. The plant has an initial installation of 280,000 kv-a. in generators."
"The paper gives a brief description of the manufacture of magnetic cores of compressed permalloy powder followed by information covering their magnetic properties with particular reference to their use in loading coils. Production of the powder, and its insulation, pressing and annealing, are discussed. Under magnetic properties, permeability, core loss, and modulation are treated. Curves are given illustrating the characteristics of interest in connection with the design and application of loading coils; and comparisons to corresponding characteristics of compressed powdered iron are made throughout."
"During the past four years, the Consumers Power Company has been making studies of surge voltages on its 140-kv. system in Michigan. Previous Institute papers have summarized the results of these investigations up to the end of 1926. This paper describes the system, outlines the studies made during the summer of 1927, and presents the results obtained during that season."
"The paper briefly discusses the development of the tandem type of rolling mill, and the requirements of electrical drives for such mills; and presents methods of calculation of power requirements."
"IN the March, 1927 issue of the A. I. E. E. JOURNAL there appeared a very interesting article on this subject by Dr. A. E. Kennelly."
"A program of excellent technical papers and most enjoyable recreational features has been scheduled for the 1928 Summer Convention which will be held in Denver, June 25–29, with headquarters at the Cosmopolitan Hotel."
"Announcement is made of the election of W. J. Serrili, assistant general manager of the United Gas Improvement Company of Philadelphia to succeed C. E. Skinner as chairman of the Standards Committee. Mr. Skinner has served the committee for the past three years, during which time the national standardization work has doubled in volume. The executive committee to serve under Mr. Serrili is a large one of broad representation, including the American Institute of Architects, the U. S. Department of Commerce, the American Railway Association, the American Mining Congress, the Panama Canal, U. S. Departments of the Interior, Agriculture, Labor, War, the Navy Department, the American Society for Testing Materials, a Telephone Group, Fire Protection group, Safety group, Society of Automotive Engineers, several industrial interests, The American Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the four National Engineering Societies, Civil, Mechanical, Mining, and Electrical Engineers Societies."
"At its recent meeting in Milwaukee, the Administrative Board of the American Engineering Council, endorsed the creation of a commission of engineers as proposed in the Douglas Bill to investigate the physical problems connected with flood control and development of the Colorado River. The program contemplated by the Douglas Bill was approved “subject to the report of the aforesaid commission of present expenditures on the Colorado River confined only to flood protection.”"
"Theodore Beran, commercial vice-president of the General Electric, in charge of the New York District, has retired, effective May 1. Until his election as vice-president in 1926, Mr. Beran had been manager of the district since 1903."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Following extensive plans made by the District Committee on Student Activities, the programs given below were presented on Friday morning May 11 in connection with the Regional Meeting of District No. 1, held at New Haven, Connecticut, May 9–12, 1928."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y. — W. V. Brown, Manager. 1216 Engineering Bldg., 205 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 WEST 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"This committee gave a complete and comprehensive résumé last year of the progress made and the trend in the art of power generation. Many of the important features of that report still describe the present practise in the various branches of power station development, and for this reason it was thought inadvisable to attempt a similar undertaking so soon thereafter. Some interesting material however, has already been collected and will be included in next year's report."
"In a discharge tube containing cold electrodes there is a very high-voltage drop at the cathode. Positive ions falling through this drop result in the emission of a small primary electron current which maintains the discharge by ionization by collision. Thus, we see that the function of the high cathode drop is the production of this primary electron current."
"A brief discussion is given of the various forms of electrical discharges as they are characterized by the physicists. Oscillographic records secured of voltages and currents, both before and during the flashovers, are reproduced and discussed. Polarity tests, in which the electrode shape and spacing were found to determine the sign of the half-cycle at which flashovers would start, are described. Photographic results obtained with moving films are illustrated, showing the various stages of a flashover from the formation of the corona discharges through the initial sparkover to the development of the half-cycle arc channels. The flashovers studied ranged from several feet to 22 ft. in length. Spectrographic analyses of the different stages of a flashover are described, wherein it is possible to gain some knowledge of several factors contributing to the conductivities of the various stages. Several of the spectra obtained are illustrated and a comparison spectrum of lightning is given. With the knowledge gained from the laboratory studies the probable history of a high-voltage a-c. flashover is summarized."
"For the most part, this paper is a discussion of the mechanism of insulator flashover. The breakdown of air between electrodes, with particular consideration of the effect of various factors upon the flashover characteristics of insulator strings equipped with arcing rings, is discussed. It is shown that critical dimensions and spacings of arcing rings exist for a given insulator string. If the arcing rings are designed to lie on the safe side of this critical point, cascading flashovers will not occur: if the arcing ring dimensions are below the critical values, cascading may or may not occur, depending upon the nature of the applied voltage wave. Data from tests, which determined the limiting physical dimensions of arcing rings will prevent cascading under all types of impressed voltages, are presented."
"The authors describe recent activities of the Bell System in the development of long distance multiplex telephone systems using carrier current methods. A new, so-called type C system which supplants earlier types of equipment is described in detail, together with suitable repeaters and pilot channel apparatus for insuring the stability of operation: the line problems are considered and typical installations pictured. The growth of the application of carrier telephone systems and their increasingly important part in providing long distance telephone service on open-wire lines are shown."
"Wound type current transformers installed in the tanks of high-voltage oil circuit breakers have been in operation for many years. The experience gained during this period has resulted in fairly clear definitions as to the types of installations to which they are best suited, and to designs of transformers which are highly reliable. The purpose of this paper is to present a brief history of some of the developments leading up to the present application of wound type current transformers in circuit breakers and to indicate some of the conditions under which they offer special advantages."
"Data on the surge voltage investigation, carried out under the auspices of the Subcommittee on Lightning, on one of the 132-kv. lines of the American Gas and Electric Company during 1928, are presented. Most of the surges have been segregated as to cause, and plotted in summary form for more convenient use. The magnitude and character of recorded surges are discussed, and the conclusions drawn from data presented. Information on voltage surges due to lightning, switching, trip-outs, and unknown causes, are presented, as well as records of lightning arrester discharge currents, voltages across choke coils, and on the ground wire. This paper is presented to make available to the engineering profession at this time some of the information already obtained, pending the complete report of the Subcommittee on Lightning. As experimental work is still being done in the field during 1928, anything approaching a complete report cannot be made until next year."
"Improved forms of drive for cotton cards and roving frames have until recently, received less attention than most other applications in the textile industry. In this article there is a discussion of the forms of drive available for three classes of machinery, together with a discussion of the factors which must be considered in selecting a drive under particular conditions."
"Data for making preliminary estimates of speed of cars required, and capacity of motor to do a given service have been rather limited. The object of this paper is to show a method whereby it is possible to provide curves which are simple to calculate and easy to apply. No mathematical formula has ever been derived to express the speed-time or current-time curves for a railway motor. Similarity between speed-time curves has been resorted to and this paper shows how this method can be used to give very accurate results by proper consideration of the various factors which influence the shape of the speed-time curve. Previous methods for estimating motor capacities are based on the horsepower of motor required, but with the advent of the self-ventilated and blown motors it is necessary to calculate the r. m. s. current for a given cycle and select a motor having this continuous rating. A method for doing this is proposed, based on similar current-time curves. The limiting values of average running speeds for given rates of acceleration and braking, and the data for obtaining motor capacity necessary at these limits are indicated on each curve. This helps one to visualize why it is not practicable to perform certain schedules on a fixed rate of acceleration and braking basis."
"To the Board of Directors: Only the following excerpts from the Committee's Report are noted here. For the detailed report on these and other applications, and of further Committee activities, reference should be made to the full report."
"This is a report of some of the work done at the Ryan High-Voltage Laboratory, Stanford University, during the school year of 1927–28. A new method of measuring high voltages, in which the current through a water resistor is recorded on an oscillograph, is described. Over a million volts to ground were measured with an accuracy believed to be better than 2 per cent. A calibration of the meter sphere-gap was determined for voltages. up to 1100 kv. and the arc-over voltages for point-gaps were determined for distances up to 30 ft. Point-to-plane arc-over voltages also were measured. Included in the report are some tests made in connection with the shielding of the water resistor determining to what extent capacity currents were causing error. Sphere-gaps were used also in connection with the determination of the arc-over voltages of the point-gaps, to determine whether there was any high frequency set up by the heavy corona streamers from the point that could not be recorded by the oscillograph. The procedure of taking an oscillogram of the corona current from a pointed electrode a million volts above ground is described. The practicability of he use of the meter sphere-gap for voltage measurement is discussed."
"From the switching service point of view, circuit breakers as a whole may be divided roughly into general classifications dependent upon the time required to isolate portions of the circuit under conditions of fault or to clear the circuit under any predetermined condition. Of these, the conventional normal-speed breaker constitutes by far the largest class in general use."
"Gaseous-conductor lamps are finding a wide field of application in advertising and display lighting. A brief discussion of the theory of the high-voltage type is included. The electrical characteristics of typical high-voltage lamps were investigated by the use of indicating instruments, Duddell, and cathode ray oscillographs. Characteristic curves, data and oscillograms are given. Power-factor improvement was studied and data covering two methods of correction are included."
"Some 15 years ago in a substation supplying power to an interurban electric railway system it was demonstrated that electro-mechanical devices could be made to operate the apparatus so successfully that human attendance might not be necessary. Since that time, the development of these automatic devices has been extremely rapid and as a result of the progress in this branch of the art, the automatic substation of today has reached a high state of development."
"To the Board of Directors: The Committee on Automatic Stations was appointed April 8, 1927. This, its first annual report, will give a general description of automatic station development during the past decade, and will enlarge upon some of the more important new features brought forward during the past year. Research, operation, standards, bibliography, and suggestions for future study will each receive attention."
"The present contribution is for the purpose of deriving a logical formula to be used as a guide in the determination of the minimum safe horizontal spacing of transmission line conductors, and is offered for discussion. By minimum safe horizontal spacing is meant the least spacing that will insure safety against short circuits between conductors due to their swinging together out in the span, under the influence of wind or ice, and has no relation to the separation of conductors transversely at the towers, as required for securing the necessary clearance to the tower structure. The latter separation is usually controlling, but a number of cases occur where the getting together in the span requires a wider spacing, such, for example, as long spans or two circuit horizontal arrangements of conductors."
"Provides a complete list of the available A.I.E.E. Standards, showing date of latest edition, prices, etc. is provided along with news of new standards and new standards projects."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Recent student meetings and related events are listed."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 1216 Engineering Bldg., 205 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 WEST 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary: temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Excerpts from letters of appreciation."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Index of papers, discussions, reports, etc."
"The advantage of the storage-battery locomotive with respect to safe haulage in gassy coal mines is emphasized in a paper by L. C. Ilsley issued by the United States Bureau of Mines. In coal mining, the application of the storage-battery locomotive is chiefly in gathering service in competition with animal or cable-reel locomotives. The locomotive delivers empty cars to the rooms or working places where the coal is being mined and hauls the loaded cars from the rooms. The length of haul depends upon the distance of the junction point from the active workings of the mine. As a rule, the haulage from the junction point to the foot of the shaft or bottom of the slope is done by trolley locomotives, but in some instances, where the grades permit, the main-line haulage work is performed by storage-battery locomotives."
"An analysis of the surges recorded during 1927 on a 75-mi. 110-kv. double-circuit transmission line of the New England Power System is presented in this paper. The surges are classified according to cause of surge-voltage damping, extent, etc. General conclusions are drawn regarding the nature of surges and protection afforded by ground wires."
"A discussion is given of the insulation problem in relation to increased size, rating, and voltages of turbo alternators, and some results of experimental studies are given showing the possibilities of improving the insulation to take care of such increases. Mention is made of the effects of high-voltage testing and the use of hydrogen on the insulation problem, and finally, an explanation of a device for the elimination of corona formed around armature coils."
"This paper outlines the experience of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad with three high-speed oil circuit breakers which were installed in 1925 to serve an electrified branch line carrying freight and passenger traffic, both local and through. Satisfactory operation of paralleling commercial communication circuits, as well as of its own, presented an immediate problem, which after study outlined in the paper, finally yielded, and the answer, in part, was high-speed circuit breakers. The electrical and mechanical characteristics of these are set forth in detail and illustrated. A number of tests of the circuit breakers and communication circuits made by short-circuiting the 11,000-volt lines on the branch showed currents up to 3000 amperes, and openings in from one-half to one and one-half cycles, with satisfactory operation of commercial and railroad communication plant. A detailed record of the service operations of the circuit breakers along with a statement of failures is given. It is proper to say that the latter were more numerous in the early days of their use than they have been in recent months, and that a number of the faults are chargeable tot he railroad's urgent need for the equipment, thereby considerably limiting the development and testing time desired by the manufacturer. While it was not discussed in detail in the paper it goes without saying that in the design and installation of the circuit breakers safety was a paramount consideration. The illustrations will provide an index of this in the general arrangement of equipment, and also in the screen placed horizontally around the structure at the floor level to prevent curious small boys from climbing in to investigate."
"This paper discusses procedures followed in planning future extensions to telephone exchange plants to care for increased demand for telephone service. An outline is given of the methods employed in forecasting future demand for telephone service and in determining the most efficient design of the plant to meet the service requirements. The uses made of engineering comparisons in solving the economic phases of various kinds of telephone engineering problems are discussed, with particular reference to location and size or extent of major items of plant as well as the time when they should be ready to give service. Emphasis is placed upon the importance of those factors less readily evaluated, such as service factors, practicability from a construction and operating standpoint, flexibility, etc."
"This paper describes the effects experienced on the telephone circuits from the two mercury arc rectifier substations recently installed in Bridgeport, Conn., and shows in table form the relative magnitude of the interfering effects between rotating equipment and mercury arc rectifiers as a means of energizing the street railway system. The method and the type of apparatus used to reduce the effects experienced from the rectifiers are also described."
"Several types of variable ratio frequency changers are discussed and installations of such apparatus on the electrified section of the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad are described in some detail. These types of frequency changers permit a flexible tie between interconnected systems, and accurate and automatic control of load regardless of variations in voltage or frequency in either system. Any desired constant load transfer in either direction may be obtained through the apparatus by manually setting a load-regulating relay. Provision is made also for operating the sets as synchronous condensers, to improve power factor. The functioning of regulating machines and auxiliary equipment to obtain the desired results is explained, together with a description of switching equipment installed in connection with the main units."
"This paper deals with a graphic voltmeter for recording the magnitude and duration of system disturbances. It also deals with operating experiences with this device, together with the importance of the data obtained."
"This paper describes a new electrical instrument for automatically recording variations of electrical functions at high speed. The rate of chart motion is lower than that of the oscillograph so that the envelope of an a-c. wave is produced. This recorder has been successfully applied in the analysis of breakdowns on transmission lines, giving data used as the basis of securing improved selective relay protection and for other problems involving automatic high-speed recording."
"Investigations into shunting of train control track circuits have been made in the field under operating conditions by observing the operation of the primary relay on a locomotive as a train runs into a track circuit' in which there is a train ahead or an open switch and similar data have been obtained on the performance of the relay on trains in regular service. It is intended in this paper to present a method for predetermining the shunting characteristics of train control track circuits. The system discussed is a polyphase system of continuous inductive train control with cab signals employed on double-tracked steam roads. Curves are given which describe shunting conditions in train control track circuits and data are also given for comparison describing the shunting of the track relay on the same sections of track."
"To the Board of Directors: The activities of the Committee on Applications to Marine Work this year were devoted chiefly to the dissemination of the Marine Standards (A. I. E. E. Standard No. 45), cooperation with the N. F. P. A. (Committee on Fire Detection and Alarm), cooperation with the American Marine Standards Committee on specifications for water tight receptacles and the expenditure of further efforts to induce the U. S. Steamboat Inspection Service to recognize and properly classify the electrical engineer on shipboard."
"Within a relatively short time conditions in transmission systems as regards continuity of service and maximum power have radically changed. A few years ago, the amount of power transmitted over important lines was relatively small compared with their ultimate transmitting capacity. In such cases, the systems were inherently stable, and there was a reasonable margin of power with respect to load swings and short circuits. Automatic voltage regulators were used at that time chiefly for maintaining more uniform voltage conditions than could be obtained by intermittent adjustment by hand control. Different types of regulators for this purpose have given satisfactory service for a number of years. However, conditions have gradually changed. Within the last few years the power to be transmitted has increased to such an extent that it has now become necessary to consider means seriously for increasing the maximum power and for insuring continuity of service during transient disturbances, such as load swings and short circuits. The object of this paper is to present the results of an extended investigation along these lines. A new regulator is described which will accomplish the above purposes, and the theoretical analysis is confirmed by test results."
"To the Board of Directors: In reviewing recent progress made in the application of electrical power in mines, one is inclined to conclude that it has been effected by the general economic conditions prevailing in the mining industry. Overproduction facilities in men and mines, labor problems, and freight rates are factors which are vitally influencing the prosperity and accomplishments of the business."
"In order to increase the activities and usefulness of the committee it seemed desirable to appoint working subcommittees to take charge of the several important divisions of the work. The following have been appointed:"
"Where single-conductor braided, cable is used in conduit, a discharge which may destroy the cable sometimes occurs between the braid and the duct. This can be prevented by the use of a metal covering, or with certain braids. Seine twine braid with weatherproof finish has given trouble in locations where flame-proofed asbestos braid has proved satisfactory. Asbestos braid is superior to cotton braid. The article cites actual experiences encountered, tests made, and remedies used. It is hoped that further thought will be given to this subject and a more satisfactory way found for preventing the trouble."
"As we close the forms for this month's issue of the Journal, the Summer Convention of the A. I. E. E. is being held at Denver, Colorado, and from the indications of the first two days of the meeting, a most successful convention may be predicted. The first day was devoted to conferences of Institute Officers and Section Delegates, held under the auspices of the Committee on Sections and Branches. These conferences occupied the entire day, and in the evening an informal reception was enjoyed. On Tuesday morning the first order of business was the Annual Meeting, a brief account of which is included in this issue."
"Mr. R. F. Schuchardt, Electrical Engineer, Commonwealth Edison Company, Chicago, was elected President of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers for the year beginning August 1, 1928 as announced at the Annual Convention of the Institute held in Denver, June 25–29, and in accordance with the report of the Committee of Tellers, which is published on the preceding page."
"At its meeting held on May 18, 1928, the formation of a Section at Dallas, Texas, was authorized by the Board of Directors. The organization meeting of the Section was held on June 2. George A. Mills and A. Chetham-Strode, who had previously been designated temporary Chairman and Secretary, respectively, were elected to those offices for the year beginning August 1, 1928. The other members of the Executive Committee are B. D. Hull; J. B. Thomas, Chairman, Meetings and Papers Committee; T. C. Ruhling, Chairman, Membership Committee; L. T. Blais-dell, Chairman, Entertainment Committee. Marked interest in Institute activities was shown at the meeting."
"The Twenty-Fifth Anniversary Meeting of the Philadelphia Section was held at the Engineers' Club on the evening of June 11, 1928, and was preceded by a dinner, also at the Club."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied, sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 1216 Engineering Bldg., 205 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 WEST 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"The Board of Examiners, at its meeting held June 13, 1928, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the National Secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"One of the outstanding features of the coming Winter Convention is the “Electrical Communication” session scheduled for Thursday morning, February 16. At this session greetings will be exchanged between the Institute and its sister society in London, England, by radiotelephone which will be heard by the members of both societies at meetings held simultaneously. Nothing could better illustrate the wonderful and spectacular advances in the art of electrical communication than a comparison of this meeting with one held by the Institute twelve years ago under the leadership of General John J. Carty, at that time president of the A. I. E. E."
"FIG. 1 shows the 132-kv. transmission network in question. It comprises approximately 910 mi. of actual line, about one-third of which is double-circuit, the actual circuit miles being approximately 1245. The major portion of this network was placed in operation very late in 1925, in 1926, or early in 1927."
"THE term “stability” of the welding arc can be interpreted in various ways and in accordance with conditions under which the welding arc is used."
"Potential from high-voltage circuits is obtained by means of capacitance transformers. This potential is applied to the grid circuit of vacuum tube amplifiers the output from which drives a rotating type of synchroscope. Thus the vacuum tube synchronizing equipment makes unnecessary costly high-voltage transformers which have been almost universally used for synchronizing in the past. The paper describes the commercial apparatus, gives equations pertaining to the vacuum tube amplifier and shows calculated and measured characteristic curves."
"This paper, which describes the development of the oil-filled type of 132,000-volt cable, has for convenience been divided into four parts. In the first part the economic and commercial aspects of the development are discussed. It is pointed out that this type of cable permits direct interconnection with high-voltage overhead lines and it is felt that the satisfactory operation of the two lines which have been placed in service this year will be an indication that 220,000-volt cable can be constructed without material changes in the design. The theory and design of the cable are completely developed in the second part. Particular reference is made to the effect on the dielectric of occluded gas and the method of eliminating trouble from this source in the oil filled type is described. The third part relates to the manufacture, inspection and testing of the cable and equipment. The tests showed that the electrical constants of the cable were substantially unchanged by the normal temperature cycle. The installations at New York and Chicago are described in the fourth part. Inspection, indication of oil leaks, cable and joint repairs are discussed. The replacement of a length of the New York cable, which developed a leak in the sheath, is covered in detail."
"The design, uses, and limitations of a new circuit employing the three-element vacuum tube as a voltmeter are discussed. Two overlapping ranges of voltage, together with a single operating battery, are the unique features. The effect of wave-form and the elimination of that effect are treated."
"This paper gives operating records of the first year of electrical operation of the suburban service of the Illinois Central Railroad. It shows monthly curves of load, kw-hr. per car-mile, maximum demand, load factor and temperature. It also shows monthly curves for the last four years of passengers, car-miles, seat-miles and operating income. The improvements in service are enumerated and the general results at this date are discussed."
"It is the purpose of this paper briefly to discuss, from a practical standpoint, the application and design of synchronous motors for steel-mill main-roll drives, in an effort to show what their advantages and disadvantages are; where they should, and where they should not, be used; and what special precautions must be taken in the design of motors for this service."
"This paper is a compilation of many of the new methods for relay protection required by superpower interconnections. The ideas have been obtained from various sources and represent good present day practise. The general requirements for such interconnections are mentioned with particular reference to protection against phase-to-phase short circuits in those cases where the short-circuit current, under certain system conditions, is less then the full-load current under other conditions. The clearing of accidental grounds is discussed and a new study of residual currents on systems of different types is given. This study indicates the usefulness of certain inverse time limit relays on systems having dead grounded power transformer neutrals at all switching stations. Bus protection and “back-up” methods are described. Some of the new relays which have been developed, or improvements which have been made to older types in order that the new demands may be met, are described; and there is illustrated a typical relay installation similar to that now being placed in service on a 220-kv. interconnection."
"Great interest has developed in the Winter Convention of the Institute which will be held in New York City, February 13–17, with headquarters at the Engineering Societies Building. The technical sessions are especially noteworthy and in addition, there will be lectures, inspection trips, medal presentations and social features."
"The Regional Meeting to be held in St. Louis, March 7–9, 1928, by the South Western District of the Institute, will offer many timely subjects in its technical program as well as very enjoyable social features. The Hotel Coronado has been chosen as an ideal headquarters for this meeting."
"R. B. RANSOM has been appointed resident agent in charge of the Hartford office of the General Electric Co., succeeding Mr. Gregory."
"Power Plant Development, by C. F. Hirshfeld, Detroit Edison Co. Electric League Room, Hotel Statler, 8:00 p. m. February 16."
"Recent student meetings and related events are listed."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blvd., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"ANDERSON, ELMER F., Testman, General Electric Co., Schenectady; for mail, Scotia, N.Y."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"On account of the constant expansion of Institute activities, it has become increasingly evident that all National and Regional meetings should be carefully coordinated. With this object in view, all applications for meetings are now referred to the Committee on Coordination of Institute Activities before a schedule for a year is adopted."
"A simplified method of calculating the performance of a tuned amplifier circuit is given and the effect of the various circuit constants on the characteristics is shown. The predicted results are found to check experimental observation quite closely. Curves showing the performance obtained with various types of tubes are also given. The factors affecting the stability are pointed out and typical methods for suppressing undesired oscillations are given, together with the principles involved."
"Supervisory control lines used in the remote or automatic control of electric plants are subject to overvoltages dangerous to insulation and to operators. These overvoltages may be caused by lightning, crosses with the power lines, or induction from them. Open wire control lines are influenced by all of these, cables with grounded sheaths are immune to disturbances caused by lightning or other electrostatic induction, and are more or less safe from crosses. However, the ordinary cable is still subject to high voltages by electromagnetic induction when a fault occurs on the power line. These voltages may be dangerous not only to apparatus, but also to the cable insulation. Protection by means of lightning arresters is therefore necessary. Calculations show that even if the apparatus locations are protected, high voltages may occur along the line if the transmission line fault is between stations. This may cause a cable failure. It may, therefore, be advisable to protect the cable at certain intervals. Supervisory control protectors may be called upon to discharge heavy currents of appreciable duration. This requires extremely sturdy arresters. The requirements are met by a spark-gap of special design in argon at a reduced pressure. Specially made cables will shield the line against extraneous disturbances. In large installations, the use of such cables may be worthy of consideration."
"In the analysis or solution of a-c. problems, it is frequently necessary to convert vector quantities from the exponential or polar form into complex numbers, or vice versa. This paper describes: a. A device by means of which such conversions may be performed mechanically. b. A device by means of which vector quantities expressed exponentially may be added or subtracted without prior conversion into the complex numbers. c. A slide rule with trigonometric and hyperbolic scales so disposed that conversions of vector quantities from one mathematical form into another, or the evaluation of trigonometric or hyperbolic functions of complex variables may be obtained with ordinary slide rule ease and rapidity."
"The object of this paper is the development of an empirical method of determining leakage and fringing fluxes in an electromagnetic system. Certain assumptions are made; namely, (a) the reluctance of the iron parts of the magnetic circuit are negligible as compared with that of the air-gaps; (b) the leakage and fringing components of the flux follow paths of convenient geometric shape. Formulas are derived for leakage and fringing fluxes as percentage of the main flux which crosses the gap from the pole face, for two cases, (1) a pole core of circular section and (2) one of rectangular section. Calculations of these fluxes, in percentage of the main flux, are given over a convenient range of gap lengths, coil lengths and distance of coil from pole face. It is seen that both leakage and fringing depend to a considerable extent on all these factors. Calculations are made to determine the flux density at various points along the core length and these show a wide variation in density in accordance with the dimensions of the magnetic circuit. An experimental check was made of certain of the calculated results, and the agreement obtained was as close as could be expected, the derivation being within the limits of error of observation. The paper is not a complete discussion of the subject but it is hoped to develop it still further in a subsequent paper."
"Until somewhat recently, synchronous machine theory has been satisfied with a relatively few characteristic constants, or reactances, in terms of which the behavior of machines has been calculated. Present theory, however, requires many more coefficients. There are now generally recognized two values each of leakage, synchronous, and transient reactance, which correspond to the two symmetrical axes of magnetization of the armature current and which refer to balanced operation. Negative and zero phase-sequence reactances are also employed to determine operation under unbalanced conditions, and it is possible and desirable to distinguish other reactances. In view of the increasing complexity of the subject it is felt that a critical survey of it is in order and the object of the paper has been to provide that survey. The paper has been divided into two parts. Part I describes and treats of the subject with regard to those factors which are important to application or operating engineers, and to designers. In particular, the major types of reactances which include the synchronous, transient, and phase-sequence reactances, are discussed. These quantities are defined and their methods of test outlined. It appears necessary to consider a second type of transient reactance; namely sub-transient reactance. Both reactances may be determined from short-circuit oscillograms as illustrated in the paper. A table is included which gives the numerical range of reactances for the various types of synchronous machines. Part II discusses the theoretical considerations, with a view to broadening and classifying existing conceptions of reactance. It includes the effect of external reactance on negative phase-sequence reactance and the variation in this latter quantity, depending upon whether current or voltage is impressed on the machine. An important aspect of the division of synchronous reactance into armature reaction and leakage reactance is discussed. Transient reactance is shown to be the difference between synchronous reactance and the ratio of the mutual reactance between armature and field and the total field reactance. Calculations are included to show that the short-circuit and open-circuit time constants are related to each other in a simple manner. The appendixes cover the following subjects: a. Application of the Principle of Superposition to Synchronous Machine Analysis. b. Replacing the Effect of Induced Field Currents by Employing Transient Instead of Synchronous Reactances. c. Significant Rotor Circuits in Addition to the Main Field Winding (which effect transient reactances). d. The Negative Phase-Sequence Reactance of a Synchronous Machine with Negative Phase-Sequence Voltage Impressed. e. Construction of Equivalent Circuits: Concept of Field Leakage Reactance. f. Calculation of Total Field Reactance. g. Relation of the Mutual Reactance Between Armature and Field to the No-Load Excitation Current. h. Relation Between Three-Phase and Single-Phase Reactances. i. Discussion of the System of Notation Used in the Paper. j. Per-Unit Representation of Quantities."
"Since 1920, when the general subject of excitation systems was reviewed at the White Sulphur Springs Convention, two important problems regarding these systems have arisen: One relates to the required excitation characteristics during system disturbances, and the other to the characteristics which are necessary in order to increase the maximum power above the steady slate or static limit — i. e., in order to operate the synchronous machines under the condition of dynamic stability. With respect to the former problem, the advantages and disadvantages of quick response excitation are considered. Such excitation tends, of course, to hold up the voltage during system disturbances, and is thus advantageous. However, it also increases the short-circuit current which circuit breakers must interrupt. The general trend in installing such systems is therefore in the direction of requiring larger circuit breakers. Such an excitation system is justified in many cases, and, indeed, it is essential in some. The extent to which the quickness of response and the maximum value of the excitation voltage are carried, is a question which, at present, should be settled by the conditions of the particular case. As to increasing power limits, results are given which are very promising with respect not only to long distance transmission, but also to power systems which have approached the power limit as determined by the condition of present normal operation. A new regulator, unique in its operating characteristic, has been developed which makes it possible to sustain stable operation under the condition of dynamic stability, thus increasing the maximum power by taking advantage of a heretofore unexploited range of operation of synchronous machines. Comparative test results are given for different types of regulators. The new regulator alone showed extraordinary gain, giving an increase of maximum power from a steady state (steady-field excitation) value of 110 kw., to a maximum of 415 kw., on a system comprising a synchronous generator supplying power directly to a synchronous motor. This shows the extent of improvement obtainable in the machines themselves. With an artificial 500-mile straightaway transmission line between the machines, a maximum power (received at the motor) equal to 90 per cent of the “infinite bus” value was obtained. The infinite bus value was 61 kw., 55 kw. was obtained, 44 kw. being the steady state power limit. The excitation system, as controlled by the new regulator, provides a component of excitation voltage which is at all instants equal to the i r drop in the field circuit during the necessary small oscillation under dynamic stability. The i r drop is therefore compensated, the characteristic of the regulator being to introduce the effect of negative resistance. And with zero effective field resistance, the maximum power corresponds to the condition of constant flux linkages — the power under that condition is greatly increased above the constant field current value. This condition is approached by the new regulator."
"This paper is a continuation of a former one presented by the writer, in May, 1926. Records are given of vibration in actual transmission lines under widely varying conditions and with various conductor materials. These observations indicate the limiting values of wavelength frequency and amplitude of such vibrations encountered in service. Laboratory experiments are described in which the observed conditions were artificially reproduced in a large conductor. The stresses adjacent to a point of support were studied with the aid of a microscope. The wave shape was plotted and the energy required to maintain vibration was recorded. All conductor vibration breaks observed in practise have occurred at supports or badly made joints. The conclusion is reached that if the radius of curvature at the support can be maintained at least equal to that at the center of a loop, no breakage will occur. Mathematical expressions are given for determinining the radius of curvature at the center of a loop, the bending moment at a support, and the necessary additional amount of conductor stiffness at the support to satisfy the desired condition. There is described a simple form of stiffening device which even in a more crude form has been found effective in several cases of actual service."
"This paper outlines superexcitation as it will be applied to the synchronous condensers purchased for Plymouth Meeting, the receiver substation of the 220-kv. Conowingo transmission lines. In it are discussed the design limits of the excitation equipment as chosen and the emergency condenser output expected from, it, are evaluated."
"After a brief review of the need for reference standards in dielectric power loss measurements at highvoltage and commercial power frequencies, this paper describes a thermal method for measuring dielectric power loss in cable, utilizing the sheath temperature rise associated with the flow of heat due to the power loss within the sheath. Sources of error are discussed briefly and results are given in comparison with measurements of dielectric power loss by the reflecting astatic electrodynamometer wattmeter, using an air capacitor for phase-angle compensation. In connection with the investigation, certain possible errors in dynamometer measurements are noted, particularly the effect of humidity on power loss in the air capacitor."
"This paper tells in general of the reasons for, and the advantages of, interconnection between power supply systems. It enumerates five essential factors which must be considered in successful operation of interconnected systems; namely, (1) dependable communication; (2) centralized authority and control over operations; (3) location and isolation of trouble; (4) voltage regulation and control over the entire system; and (5) frequency control. A description is given of the interconnections along the entire Pacific Coast."
"IT is the author's wish to present a picture, necessarily very briefly sketched, of the physical makeup of the transoceanic telephone circuit, why it has been given its present form, and what further improvements are expected as a result of development work now under way."
"Until recently, the application of incandescent lamps to certain decorative and display uses has been hampered because lamps fitted with the standard Edison screw base were too bulky and lamps for use on regular lighting circuit voltages could not be made easily with the small candelabra screw base. One base was too large to permit the desired delicacy of design in equipment in which the lamps were to be used; the other was too small from a standpoint of lamp performance and manufacturing difficulty."
"A program of excellent technical papers and most enjoyable recreational features has been scheduled for the 1928 Summer Convention which will be held in Denver, June 25–29, with headquarters at the Cosmopolitan Hotel."
"Albert J. Pyle, formerly of Wilmington, Del., is now associated with the Ford Instrument Co., Long Island City, N. Y., as technical writer."
"Annual Meeting. Speaker: Pres. Bancroft Gherardi, Vice-President and Chief Engr., American Tel. & Tel. Co. (National President, A. I. E. E.) May 24."
"Recent student meetings and related events are listed."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance, Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y. — W. V. Brown, Manager. 1216 Engineering Bldg., 205 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 WEST 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"Time and distance were annihilated in a spectacular way when, for the first time in history, two gatherings of engineers, one in New York and the other in London, talked freely and easily to each other, and their remarks were heard by hundred of people gathered in the auditoriums in both cities as readily as if all the speakers were on the same platform."
"This paper describes a phenomenon which is used as a method of studying the development of high-voltage sparkover. It has been found that if a voltage which rises very rapidly to a value more than sufficient to cause breakdown, if continuously applied, is impressed upon a sphere-gap and this is very quickly reduced to a low value, luminous streamers are produced instead of the usual intense spark. These streamers can be observed with the eye and can be recorded on a photographic plate by the use of a quartz lens. The phenomenon described and recorded is of intense interest because it presents the intermediate stages between the initiation of and the actual flashover between the spheres. The effect on time lag of flashover, with special reference to the state of ionization of the gas previous to flashover, is also discussed. Beside giving information on the mechanism of development of sparkover, this method of “suppressed discharge” has been used to determine the nature of the electrostatic field about insulators and between electrodes of various shapes."
"The thermal volume meter was originally brought out by Professor Thomas, and is frequently called a “Thomas Meter.” The principle is that the temperature of the gas is raised by means of an electric healer, the change in temperature being accurately measured either by means of resistance thermometers connected in a wheastone bridge network, or by means of a thermopile. It is believed that the thermocouple method is preferable to resistance thermometers, and most of the paper deals with that construction. The usual construction has walls of wood or micarta which serve as an insulating support for the heater coils and thermocouples. The paper deals with the general proportions of the volume meter as to section and length, the former being determined mainly by the mean velocity of the air, and the latter by the distance needed to give the gas an opportunity to mix after passing the heater. A sufficient number of thermocouples is required to give a good reading of the potentiometer with a comparatively low temperature rise of the gas and also to obtain a good average of the gas temperature. The details of construction are described. Equations suitable for calculating the volumes of the gas are then given. Then follows considerable discussion on the possible sources of error in the meter, the principal ones being: a. The non-uniform heating of the gas. b. Non-uniform distribution of velocities. c. Heatescapement. Methods are suggested for determining the magnitude of these experimentally or by calculation. There are several minor sources of error, such as: 1. Time lag of meter. 2. Unsteady source of e. m. f. 3. Instrument errors. 4. Heat flow along thermocouple wires. 5. Loss of pressure in passing through the meter. 6. Variation of specific heat and humidity. Most of these are shown to be of negligible effect. Some notes on design are given, which include means of calculating the proportions of the heater. In Appendix I the advantages and disadvantages of various methods of measuring gas volumes are included. In Appendix II will be found some notes on comparison of resistance thermometers and thermocouples for temperature measurement. In Appendix III consideration is given to the electrical machine as a thermal volume meter."
"A brief description of the Edison System at St. Louis is given, and power supply, service restoration, and system balance are discussed. The relation of the St. Charles St. Substation to the remainder of the system is pointed out and certain features of its design explained. The scheme of loading the machines and the method of load shifting between machines is given in detail. The distinctive features of the various types of machines at this station are discussed, particular attention being given to the control of the converter with transformer taps and high-voltage revolving field booster. The scheme of automatically changing taps under load is described fully. A brief summary of the protective features on this machine is also given. The operating experience with the automatic equipment at the St. Charles St. Station is related."
"This paper shows that humidity affects considerably the flashover voltages of porcelain and PYREX insulators. The flashover potential rises as the humidity is increased. The tests were made on pin-type insulators and on rods. The results show that this rising characteristic is a surface effect which varies with the absolute water content of the surrounding atmosphere."
"The object of this paper is to show how extensively electric welding is being used in the fabrication of large electrical apparatus. It outlines the use and advantages of welding for supplanting the casting and machinery of parts and describes briefly the welding equipment developed for this purpose and some of the electrical machines produced by this method."
"The saturation permeameter is a device for speedy and accurate measurement of saturation value of magnetic material; that is, for measurement of the limiting value of intrinsic induction (β) characteristic of that material. The permeameter in its present form is of the well-known bar-yoke type, with a magnetizing coil capable of producing a magnetizing force of H = 4500 g. without excessive heating. The permeameter is equipped with a compensating coil whose function is to compensate automatically for the spatial flux enclosed by the potential coil, so that the ballistic deflections indicate the saturation value without further computation or correction. The permeameter is available for accurate measurement of saturation value of such material as is saturated well within the working range of the permeameter, i. e., with a magnetizing force of H = 3000 g., or less, which includes all magnetic material used for electrical engineering purposes except those for permanent magnets and cobalt. The saturation permeameter is also available for approximately correct measurement of B or β, for range of H below the saturation point as far down as H = 200 g. In speed of testing and accuracy of the measured saturation value, this permeameter surpasses all devices for saturation measurement developed heretofore."
"The special case of cylindrical rotor machine has been treated previously by Boucherot and others. The present paper solves the general case, including salient pole machines. The cylindrical rotor type thus becomes merely a limiting case. The principle assumption which distinguishes the present theory from the extensively studied cylindrical rotor theory is that the total armature self-inductance is here taken as variable with respect to rotor position, whereas the previous theory of short circuits, as represented by Boucherot, for instance, assumes this inductance to be constant — in other words, that the air-gap is uniform. Expressions are derived for the short-circuit currents in the armature and field, for voltage induced in the open phase, and for voltages across external reactances in the armature and field circuits. Comparison of calculated and test curves for these quantities are shown in Figs. 5 to 8, for a 7000-kv-a., 385-rev. per min., salient pole alternator, and in Figs. 11 to 25 for a 20-hp., 1800-rev. per min. induction machine (cylindrical rotor). These show satisfactory agreement. The mathematical work and definitions are in Appendixes as follows: A. Summary of Equations. B. Armature Current. C Field Current. D. Voltage Across External Reactance in Armature Circuit. E. Voltage Across the Open Phase. F. Voltage Across the Open Phase. G. Variation of Armature Inductance with Position. H. Decrement Factors. I. Reactances — Definitions and Relations."
"This paper describes apparatus recently developed for utilizing the charging current of a condenser bushing in operating a synchronoscope, thus making a simple and inexpensive method of synchronizing at high voltage. Data are given also covering the operation of the device for different conditions of frequency, voltage, etc., thus assisting in the consideration of the adaptability of the device to other applications. An account of the first installation in the field is also given."
"Our earth is not a neutral body. It is coated with a layer of negative electricity of such amount that, at the surface, there is an electrical potential gradient of the order of 150 volts per meter. This potential gradient diminishes with altitude until, at an altitude of 10 kilometers, it becomes insignificant compared with its value at the surface. The potential gradient, and so the negative charge on the earth's surface, goes through fairly regular variations throughout the day and throughout the year; variations amounting to 50 per cent or more of its value."
"IN receiving this great honor, I do so with feelings of deep gratitude and not without a sense of humility, for I realize that the brain of the individual has its limits as a storehouse, and that with knowledge continually increasing, any one mind can take in only a small portion of the rapidly accumulating body of engineering information. In these days, intellectual specialization is absolutely necessary, and whatever I have been able to accomplish is the result of specialization and the cooperation of many individuals."
"I SHOULD like to say a few words this evening about a subject which has interested me deeply for several years; namely, the use of very high-voltage in vacuum tubes."
"The most obvious method for determining the distortion of telegraph signals is to calculate the transients of the telegraph system. This method has been treated by various writers, and solutions are available for telegraph lines with simple terminal conditions. It is well known that the extension of the same methods to more complicated terminal conditions, which represent the usual terminal apparatus, leads to great difficulties. The present paper attacks the same problem from the alternative standpoint of the steady-state characteristics of the system. This method has the advantage over the method of transients that the complication of the circuit which results from the use of terminal apparatus does not complicate the calculations materially. This method of treatment necessitates expressing the criteria of distortionless transmission in terms of the steady-state characteristics. Accordingly, a considerable portion of the paper describes and illustrates a method for making this translation. A discussion is given of the minimum frequency range required for transmission at a given speed of signaling. In the case of carrier telegraphy, this discussion includes a comparison of single-sideband and double-sideband transmission. A number of incidental topics are also discussed."
"All plans are completed for the Regional Meeting which will be held March 7–9 in St. Louis, with headquarters at the Hotel Coronado. This meeting was announced in the February JOURNAL, page 154, and with the exception of substituting one technical paper, no changes have since been made in the arrangements. The change consisted in withdrawing the paper Electric Equipment for Oil and Gas Locomotives and placing in the program the paper Drive of Tandem Rolling Mills, by A. F. Kenyon, Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company."
"The Winter Convention held in New York, February 13–17, followed the tradition of its predecessors in presenting a program of very substantial technical papers, but offered in addition a number of lighter features which attracted large and interested audiences. The total attendance of members and guests numbered about 2000."
"OWING to the deep significance and historic value of the joint session with the British Institution of Electrical Engineers held during the midwinter convention through the medium of transatlantic telephony, the proceedings of this meeting are published herewith in full. Preliminary to the joint session, a paper was presented by Mr. O. B. Blackwell discussing the technical problems involved in transatlantic telephony. Following Mr. Blackwell's remarks, Mr. K. W. Waterson outlined the operating problem of this service. Both of these papers will appear in a future issue of the JOURNAL. At the close of Mr. Waterson's address, President Gherardi called upon Mr. Charlesworth to say a few words in regard to the meeting in London and to arrange for the joint session."
"One of the most impressive and enjoyable functions of the Winter Convention was the dual medal presentations which took place on Wednesday evening, February 15th. The ceremonies were witnessed by an audience that filled the Engineering Auditorium to capacity, and seated on the platform were many of the well-known leaders in the engineering profession, several of them former Edison medalists. The presentation of the Edison Medal to Dr. W. D. Coolidge was followed by the presentation of the John Fritz Medal to General John J. Carty, Bancroft Gherardi, President of the A. I. E. E. presided during the first ceremony."
"The Board of Trustees (three from each of four societies) conducts the business committed to United engineering society by its Founder Societies under its charter, the Founder's Agreement and the Library Agreement."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Recent student meetings and related events are listed."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers, The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blvd., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"For many years the Institute has taken a very active and helpful interest in students preparing for the profession of electrical engineering, and certain provisions made during the past few years have greatly increased the effectiveness of its participation in their development. Such provisions have been made because electrical engineering students of today will be leaders in the Institute of the future, and contacts formed now are of mutual advantage."
"The design of high-quality horn-type loudspeakers with moving coil drivers is considered. Efficiency and maximum output capacity obtainable from this type of loudspeaker are calculated. Methods of providing load capacity greater than that possible with a single loudspeaker are described."
"When a d-c. compound motor is started, the rise of current in the series field induces a voltage in the shunt field counter to that applied, and the shunt field current may reach several times normal value in a negative direction. This current reversal gives, in effect, a differentially compounded motor during the starting period and causes the starting torque to be materially reduced. In many applications of compound motors, therefore, predetermined performance is not obtained. In particular cases where the motor is continually started and stopped, the effect may be so serious as to dictate the choice of another type of motor or one of a special design to minimize the undesirable action. In case the compound motor is disconnected from the line while running and reconnected with no external resistance, the delay in establishing a flux due to the damping action of the shunt field may permit excessive currents to flow. In other d-c. motors, currents induced in the solid iron portions of the frame and poles exert a damping effect similar to that of the shunt field in the compound motor, which may at times be undesirable. A study of such transients leads to means by which they may be minimized and provides calculation methods for predetermining motor behavior."
"Public utilities which have to do with supplying electric power are continually finding themselves confronted by problems a little different from anything in the past. New interconnections of superpower plants and transmission lines often present involved metering installations. The installation herein described has to do, generally, with such a condition and specifically has to provide for metering the simultaneous composite demand of an ultimate installation of 48 separate feeder circuits. It is believed that this is the largest installation of its kind so far attempted. The importance of this particular job required a very exacting study of all factors and the operating results, to date, seem to bear out the solution. A novel scheme has been incorporated in the daily routine of handling the demand meter tapes. A general description of this is given. A few details of the physical installation are cited, which show the extreme care used through the whole installation. While this application is specifically designed for metering, the principles involved are applicable to numerous other uses, some of which are mentioned."
"This paper presents new and simplified formulas for the armature leakage reactance of synchronous machines, and compares the results obtained with tests on 100 machines of varied types. The new formulas are characterized by novel expressions for the end leakage and for the “air-gap” or “differential leakage” reactances. Formulas for zero phase-sequence reactances also are given. The definitions of armature leakage and armature reaction reactances used are those proposed by Doherty and Nickle in 1926, and as a result, the leakage reactance has a much smaller value than has been assigned to it heretofore, thus requiring a rather fundamental revision of the ordinary conceptions of the flux densities existing in the various parts of a loaded synchronous machine."
"THE introduction of telephone communication between Great Britain and the United States required the fitting together of the practises of two telephone organizations. The development of usage between subscribers in the two countries involves questions of different telephone habits and experience. It may help to define the problem of setting up a service of this kind if at the start I mention one or two of the most important characteristics of long distance service in the two countries which illustrate outstanding points of difference."
"The use of arc welding for constructing buildings, machinery, bridges, etc., has come into prominence during the past eighteen months, due to the merits of the process becoming recognized by a number of designers. Undoubtedly within the next few years the applications of the process will be extended rapidly as our available data are corroborated and amplified and as the limitations of the process become well defined. The arc welding process of joining steel members to produce a fabricated structure, either to replace riveting or to take the place of castings, will produce results not obtainable in any other way known at present. Among the advantages of arc welding are the following: 1. The weight of materials required in a member or structure can be reduced by as much as 18 per cent. 2. No material is removed from members for welded connections such as rivet holes for riveted construction. 3. The weight of connecting material in some cases can be reduced 50 per cent to 90 per cent. 4. Absolute fixation of one member to another can be easily and economically obtained. 5. Continuity of members intersecting others can be readily obtained. 6. Greater rigidity can be obtained in a structure. 7. Overlapping members can be completely sealed by weld metal, thereby excluding moisture, preventing corrosion, and making a structure easier to paint. 8. Changes in or additions to structures can be made with a great saving in both time and expense. 9. More pleasing designs and in some cases, designs impossible by other processes, can be produced. 10. The welding process is practically noiseless."
"This paper reviews the developments made in the impedance relay since its introduction in 1923. A brief review is given of its construction and operation, with special emphasis on the methods of obtaining proper potential for the restraining elements without the use of high-voltage potential transformers. The use of potential from condenser-type bushings is discussed. To make possible the use of low-voltage potential, methods of compensating for the voltage drop through power transformers and for the shifting of the secondary neutral point have been developed, These methods are described. Some special applications of the relay are also discussed."
"The development of power stations in the Chicago District is described, showing how small stations have been replaced, and the energy supply for light, power, and traction consolidated by the use of high-voltage lines. The interconnections between stations and the developments of recent years and for the immediate future are outlined. This includes cables at 66,000 and 132,000 volts, with circuit capacities of 60,000 kv-a. A station in Central Illinois, near the coal supply, is being tied in with the Chicago District. Interchange of energy between companies is conducted under an agreement, which is an important factor in the success of interconnection. Some of the operating problems are outlined briefly."
"Without doubt, it is generally believed that there are extra losses in the armature coil of a d-c. machine when it is undergoing commutation, but that during the major portion of the time, since the current is steady, the loss in the coil is correctly computed by squaring the value of the current and multiplying by the true or ohmic resistance of the coil. This view, however, is not correct. The disturbance in the coil current produced by the process of commutation persists throughout the cycle so that at no time is the current uniformly distributed over the cross-section of the conductor. Although the disturbance and resulting extra loss factor are greatest during commutation, the extra losses are present at all times, even while the current in the coil is steady."
"THE calculation of the alternating current resistance ratio due to skin effect or proximity effect has been worked out for many shapes and combinations of conductors but often without recourse to experimental results. It is, accordingly, the purpose of this work to check calculations with tests for the type of calculation recently developed, covering the losses in several round wires connected in parallel, of which the arrangement is such that unequal currents flow in the different wires. The experimental results with which the calculated results are to be compared are those presented by A. E. Kennelly and H. A. Affel2 in 1916 for seven-strand cables. Their work covered radio frequencies up to 100,000 cycles in rather small conductors. The derivations as presented here are applicable to all frequencies and sizes of conductors."
"An excellent program is arranged for the Regional Meeting which will be held in Baltimore, April 17–20, under auspices of the Middle Eastern District. The Hotel Belvedere will be headquarters for the meeting. The program will be as published in the March JOURNAL, page 218, except that the paper Behavior of Dielectrics announced for the afternoon session on April 17 will not be presented. Also, contrary to the former announcement, this session will be held in the Civil Engineering Building of Johns Hopkins University. All other sessions will be at the Hotel Belvedere."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Recent student meetings and related events are listed."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects., copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance. Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers. The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 53 West Jackson Blvd., Room 1736, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 West 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription rate of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"This title naturally suggests a discussion of ways and means of making most effective contact with civic problems and of the duty of engineers to apply their special talents on matters of public welfare."
"Fundamentally, the choice of line conductors and of line voltage for any transmission line is based upon economic law. While the law is simple enough, its application is quite involved. A mathematical statement of the law as applied to transmission line design was presented in a previous paper1 but the utility of the conclusions there reached was somewhat limited by the lack of suitable constants. The present paper provides suitable constants through which the application of the theory previously developed is extended to all types of transmission line conductors now in general use in America The paper concludes with a set of calculated curves for which the most economical line voltage and the most economical conductor area can be read off for a transmission line project of any assumed length and transmitting any assumed amount of power. The results obtained from the curves are found to agree very well with good engineering practise."
"In an earlier paper4 has been described a series of studies of the influence of residual air and moisture in impregnated paper insulation, such as used in high-voltage cables. Briefly, the method used was to prepare samples in groups of three, to dry them in accordance with a standard program, to impregnate them at different values of absolute air pressure, and to study the resulting influence on the power-factor — voltage curves. This gave information as to the influence of residual air. Separate studies were made of the dielectric absorption and residual conductivity of the paper before and after impregnation for different states of initial dryness. These studies, in conjunction with the resulting power-factor — voltage curves, gave information as to the influence of moisture."
"This paper describes the Rocky River hydroelectric development of The Connecticut Light and Power Company, near New Milford, Connecticut, which is a storage development for regulating the Housatonic River below New Milford. There are no sites on the main river suitable for a large storage reservoir. It was therefore necessary to select a site on a tributary, the Rocky River. The run-off from the natural drainage area of the reservoir basin furnishes only a part of the water required to fill the reservoir, making it necessary to pump the balance from the Housatonic River against a maximum head of 240 ft. This is the first large application of pumped storage in the United States, which accounts for the general interest shown in the Rocky River development."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe briefly the distribution system of the Illinois Central Suburban Electrification and to state considerations influencing the selection of high-speed circuit breakers for d-c. feeder and machine protection. The knowledge gained by nearly two years' operating experience with this system, which contains 98 high-speed circuit breakers, and the conclusions reached, are also presented."
"Following the successful use of conduit of creosoted yellow pine in the eastern and southern part of this country, similar duct made of Douglas fir was introduced on the Pacific Coast in 1911. Manufacture was undertaken in the Puget Sound territory; and extensive use of the duct has since been made for both main and subsidiary communication subways in all parts of Washington, Oregon and California, excepting Southern California where its field has been limited by economical considerations to lateral or subsidiary construction. This conduit was also considered satisfactory, until the latter part of 1923, when corrosion developed on some newly placed telephone cables, and the attending circumstances were such as to indicate that the duct itself might be responsible. It is with the identification of this corrosion and the determination and application of methods of allaying it that this paper is concerned."
"What has the engineer contributed to civilization? Have his contributions been major factors in its development? It is important that we should know the answers to these questions, for sooner or later the standing of the engineer in the world in which we live depends upon these answers. To get them it is necessary to consider the development of civilization."
"Early in the history of the development of the a-c. generator, it was recognized that there were losses present under load conditions in addition to the no-load losses and the armature copper loss due to load current. Because no one had a satisfactory means of measuring this loss it was not included in the early definitions of conventional efficiency. As competition increased and economic pressure demanded higher and higher efficiencies, the necessity of approximating this loss was apparent."
"The paper presents a brief re´sume´ of the problems encountered in the design of two-pole high-speed synchronous motors, together with a description of how they are met. A satisfactory design is worked out. The theory of the starting winding is given briefly in non-mathematical language, and curves are presented showing the results obtained in-so-far as current and torque are concerned. It also outlines the applications in which these motors have been used pointing out both the advantages and the limitations of synchronous motors. This is followed by a description of the operating characteristics and of the method of controlling the motors."
"This paper outlines the present status of lightning arrester application on transmission lines and suggests future investigations to determine the most effective design and method of application. Information from klydonograph tests is presented to show that lightning arresters are needed on both high-voltage and low-voltage lines. It is suggested that present practise in both design and application has limitations which may be overcome with the result of better protection which will be economically justified."
"There has been need in several fields of electrical engineering research for a means to study time relations, waveforms, and similar phenomena where only infinitesimal currents are obtainable. The limitations and advantages of several possible methods of investigation are compared briefly, and the conclusion reached that the ordinary oscillograph can be most profitably adapted to such work. The best form of vacuum tube amplifier for the work is then discussed, followed by a description of the steps taken in the design of a suitable resistance coupled amplifier. This amplifier is then described. The results of tests showing quality of reproduction are given in the form of oscillograms and a characteristic curve. The recommended procedure to be followed and the necessary precautions to be observed in the use of the amplifier are given with a short discussion of the abilities and possibilities of the oscillograph in its widened field of usefulness."
"To the Board of Directors: The personnel of the Committee and its general policies have been practically the same as during the preceding Institute year, so that this report is essentially a continuation of the last year's report. A steady endeavor has been made during the year to connect some practical engineering problems with the achievements and efforts of modern physics, both experimental and mathematical. In these endeavors we have been materially assisted by the two liaison representatives of the American Physical Society, authorized by the Board of Directors in 1927. As a further step in the same direction, the Committee arranged for a general lecture on The Nature of the Electric Arc, which was ably delivered by Professor K. T. Compton at the 1927 Summer Convention in Detroit."
"To the Board of Directors: The Committee on Instruments and Measurements is at present studying several pertinent phases of electrical measurements through standing subcommittees as follows:"
"The characteristics of a squirrel-cage induction motor are investigated when the resistance rings are provided with cuts 360 electrical degrees apart and the cuts in the front ring are displaced against those in the back ring by 180 electrical degrees. There is given a theoretical investigation which leads to the conclusion that splitting the rings results in an equivalent ring resistance which varies with double-slip frequency in the ratio of one to three; and the average ring resistance is twice what it was before the rings were cut. The variable rotor resistance effects a periodic fluctuation of the line current and rotor speed. The fluctuations have double-slip frequency. The theoretical conclusions are checked by tests and oscillograms. Test results show that the splitting of the rings is followed by increased rotor leakage, which results in a starting torque smaller than that corresponding to the increased resistance and original leakage."
"A varied and comprehensive program is arranged for the Pacific Coast Convention of the Institute, which will be held August 28–31, with headquarters in the Davenport Hotel, Spokane, Wash. The technical sessions, inspection trips and social events all promise to be excellent."
"One of the most successful of the Institute's Summer Conventions was held June 25 to 29 in Denver, Colorado, with headquarters at the Hotel Cosmopolitan. A very fine technical program and unusually attractive entertainment were offered to the 500 members and guests who attended; also a number of committee and business meetings were held."
"Recent and future section meetings are listed."
"Recent student meetings and related events are listed."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"The Library is a cooperative activity of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is administered for these Founder Societies by the United Engineering Society, as a public reference library of engineering and the allied sciences. It contains 150,000 volumes and pamphlets and receives currently most of the important periodicals in its field. It is housed in the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West Thirty-ninth St., New York. In order to place the resources of the Library at the disposal of those unable to visit it in person, the Library is prepared to furnish lists of references to engineering subjects, copies or translations of articles, and similar assistance, Charges sufficient to cover the cost of this work are made. The Library maintains a collection of modern technical books which may be rented by members residing in North America. A rental of five cents a day, plus transportation, is charged. The Director of the Library will gladly give information concerning charges for the various kinds of service to those interested. In asking for information, letters should be made as definite as possible, so that the investigator may understand clearly what is desired. The library is open from 9 a. m. to 10 p. m. on all week days except holidays throughout the year except during July and August when the hours are 9 a. m. to 5 p. m."
"Under joint management of the national societies of Civil, Mining, Mechanical and Electrical Engineers cooperating with the Western Society of Engineers, The service is available only to their membership, and is maintained as a cooperative bureau by contributions from the societies and their individual members who are directly benefited. Offices: — 31 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., — W. V. Brown, Manager. 1216 Engineering Bldg., 205 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Ill., A. K. Krauser, Manager. 57 Post St., San Francisco, Calif., N. D. Cook, Manager. MEN AVAILABLE. — Brief announcements will be published without charge but will not be repeated except upon requests received after an interval of one month. Names and records will remain in the active files of the bureau for a period of three months and are renewable upon request. Notices for this Department should be addressed to EMPLOYMENT SERVICE, 31 WEST 39th Street, New York City, and should be received prior to the 15th day of the month. OPPORTUNITIES. — A Bulletin of engineering positions available is published weekly and is available to members of the Societies concerned at a subscription of $3 per quarter, or $10 per annum, payable in advance. Positions not filled promptly as a result of publication in the Bulletin may be announced herein, as formerly. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS. — Members obtaining positions through the medium of this service are invited to cooperate with the Societies in the financing of the work by contributions made within thirty days after placement, on the basis of one and one-half per cent of the first year's salary; temporary positions (of one month or less) three per cent of total salary received. The income contributed by the members, together with the finances appropriated by the four societies named above will it is hoped, be sufficient not only to maintain, but to increase and extend the service. REPLIES TO ANNOUNCEMENTS. — Replies to announcements published herein or in the Bulletin, should be addressed to the key number indicated in each case, with a two cent stamp attached for reforwarding, and forwarded to the Employment Service as above. Replies received by the bureau after the positions to which they refer have been filled will not be forwarded."
"Reports recent Membership applications, elections, transfers, etc."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Lists the Name, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's sections."
"Lists the Name, Location, Chairman and Secretary of the Institute's branches."
"There is probably no field of human endeavor in which hand labor has been more completely replaced by labor-saving devices than in the field of manufacturing. The design and employment of special tools together with semi- and full automatic machinery for operating them have reached a high stage of development and are probably more responsible than any other factors for the present age being generally referred to as the industrial age. The notable economies of present day manufacture result no more from the rapid production of parts thus made possible than from the interchangeability of these parts because of the accuracy with which they have been produced."
"This paper describes the experimental determination of the frequency of free electrical oscillation of straight rods and circular loops. The results agree more closely with the formula of Abraham than with that of MacDonald. For three rods whose lengths were 300 cm., 250 cm. and 227.1 cm., the ratio of wave length at resonance to rod length had the values 2.11, 2.13 and 2.13, respectively. Measurements taken upon 250 cm. rods bent into circular arcs of different radii gave values of the ratio of resonant wave length to arc length which passed through a minimum value and were virtually independent of the radius of the arc over a wide range, deviating markedly only at the extreme value of minimum radius possible and infinite radius. The extreme measured range of the ratio was 2.05 to 2.166. The wave lengths were measured upon a pair of Lecher wires and a very satisfactory meter for the rapid comparison of waves of short length was found to be a quarter wave length Lecher frame. This frame showed a constant end correction so that λ = 4(d + 3.1), d being the length of the parallel rods."
"The adaptation of a bridge circuit due to M. Wien together with apparatus and procedure is described which permits measurement of capacitance in terms of resistance and frequency with an accuracy comparable to that of the primary standards. Among its advantages over the Maxwell method commonly employed are the use of a single frequency voltage and the fact that there is no general limitation placed on the type of condenser which may be measured or on the frequency at which the measurement may be made. The method is also applicable to the determination of inductance since its unit, like that of capacitance, may be derived from the units of resistance and frequency."
"Constant resistance recurrent networks, that is, networks whose iterative impedances are a pure constant resistance at all frequencies, form here the basis of a method of distortion correction which is applicable to any electrical circuit. The paper takes up first the general problem of distortion correction, then this method of correction and its application in the following Parts and supplementary Appendices."
"A quantitative measure of “information” is developed which is based on physical as contrasted with psychological considerations. How the rate of transmission of this information over a system is limited by the distortion resulting from storage of energy is discussed from the transient viewpoint. The relation between the transient and steady state viewpoints is reviewed. It is shown that when the storage of energy is used to restrict the steady state transmission to a limited range of frequencies the amount of information that can be transmitted is proportional to the product of the width of the frequency-range by the time it is available. Several illustrations of the application of this principle to practical systems are included. In the case of picture transmission and television the spacial variation of intensity is analyzed by a steady state method analogous to that commonly used for variations with time."
"Two previous papers before the American Institute of Electrical Engineers discussed the activities of the Bell System in the development of multiplex telephone and telegraph systems using carrier current methods. The present paper describes developments which have resulted in improvements in the carrier telephone art during the past few years. A new, so-called type “C” system is described in detail, together with suitable repeaters and pilot channel apparatus for insuring the stability of operation; the line problems are considered and typical installations pictured. The growth of the application of carrier telephone systems and their increasingly important part in providing long distance telephone service on open-wire lines are shown."
"Effect of Grounding on Telephone Interference.1 J.J. Pilliod. This paper, presented before the Pittsburgh Section of the Association of Iron and Steel Electrical Engineers in February 1928, is a rather complete although non-mathematical presentation of the inductive effects of power lines on nearby communication circuits. The production of noise on the latter circuits and the production of voltages sufficiently high to be prejudicial to the operators and users of these circuits are separately discussed. Comparisons are drawn between the inductive action of grounded and ungrounded power lines. Although free from mathematics, the paper Rives a very good outline of the interference problem and points out the many opportunities presented for cooperative effort both in connection with original design and with reduction of interference on existing lines."
"J. H. Kasley, Wheeling Technical College; Westinghouse Machine Company, 1898–1902; Western Electric Company, Inspection Branch, N. Y. C., 1905–07; Chief Process Inspector, New York and Hawthorne, 1908–09; Chief of Manufacturing Layout Department, 1913; Planning Engineer, 1915; Assistant Technical Superintendent, 1920; Superintendent of Manufacturing Planning, 1926; Hawthorne Works Operating Superintendent, 1927–."
"The growing practical importance of transients and other non-periodic phenomena makes it desirable to simplify the application of the Fourier integral in particular problems of this kind and to extend the range of problems which can be solved in closed form by this method. Unless the physicist or technician is in a position to evaluate the definite integrals which occur, by mechanical means, he is usually entirely dependent upon the results obtained by the professional mathematician. To facilitate the use of the known closed form evaluations of Fourier integrals many of them have been compiled and tabulated in Table I. They are presented, however, not as definite integrals but as paired functions, one function being the coefficient for the cisoidal oscillation (or complex exponential) and the other function the reciprocally related coefficient for the unit impulse. This arrangement simplifies the table and promises to be most convenient in practical applications, since it is the coefficients of which immediate use is made, just as in the case of the Fourier series. Applications of the tabulated coefficient pairs to 85 transient problems are given, together with all necessary details, in Table II."
"This paper discusses the advantages to be gained in certain types of large scale production by the substitution of automatic machine gaging for hand testing. For testing carbon protector blocks, a machine has been developed which accepts all blocks in case a certain dimension lies between 0.0024″ and 0.0032″ and rejects those when the dimension is 0.0023″ or less or 0.0033″ or more. This machine will effect a saving of $8000 per year over the cost of hand gaging on an output of 4,500,000 blocks. The saving effected by another recently developed machine replacing a manual test is approximately $1200 a year on a production of 2,500,000 pieces, but a far more important consideration than this money saving is the elimination of an operation so monotonous that it was difficult to keep any operator on it for more than a brief period. The author points out that in some instances automatic machine gaging of the entire product will cost less than a sampling inspection in which there must be included in the direct cost of inspection the cost of some additional supervision and control."
"MEASUREMENT of wave-lengths is the subject which we shall now consider. So entitled, the topic seems unpromising, as some dry exercise in mensuration; but in truth it is distinguished for beauty and variety, and implicated with the whole of modern physics. This is not measurement of the lengths of palpable objects, as pieces of lumber or cloth, which are laid alongside of a yardstick or clamped in the jaws of a gauge. In optics, the methods of measuring wavelengths are the methods of proving that waves exist, therefore of testing the undulatory theory of light. One could not reasonably ask for evidence of light-waves more convincing than the concord of the values obtained for the wave-length say of sodium yellow light, by all the diverse instruments which act by causing interference or diffraction: Newton's tapering film of air between a lens and a plate, Fraunhofer's grid of iron wires, the tilted mirrors of Fresnel, Michelson's echelon, and all the many gratings and interferometers continually in use in laboratories and classrooms. Wave-lengths of X-rays are computed from the diffraction-patterns imposed on X-ray beams by intercepting crystals, and these patterns were the evidence which showed some fifteen years ago that the rays are of the nature of undulations, though it could not disprove that in some paradoxical way they are also of the nature of corpuscles. From similar diffractionpatterns imposed by crystals on electron-streams it follows that these also are partly of the nature of waves, and again the patterns have supplied the values of the wave-lengths."
"When a multi-channel communication circuit includes a non-linear element such as a ferromagnetic core coil, distortion of the wave form impressed upon the circuit is produced. In terms of the single frequency components, this distortion is manifested in the appearance of new components. This distortion may give rise to the reduction of quality in any channel, and it may also introduce crosstalk and interference, which consists of new frequencies not present in the impressed wave of any channel under consideration, produced by independent channels. In view of the recent increased use of multi-channel systems, it has become necessary to investigate the effects of this type of distortion, to determine the dependence of this distortion upon the properties of the magnetic materials constituting the cores of inductance coils and transformers, as well as upon the circuit impedances, and to determine those constants of core materials which are significant in the distorting process. The behavior of magnetic materials to complex waves of magnetizing force is ordinarily a highly involved process, so that a direct correlation between distortion and some of the easily measured constants of materials is a matter of some difficulty. It has been established experimentally, as a confirmation of theoretical speculations, that the third harmonic e.m.f. generated by a sinusoidal wave of magnetizing force may serve as an index of the distortion with a complex wave of magnetizing force. This relation is valid for low flux densities and for frequencies at which the screening effect of eddy currents is not important. The paper is therefore devoted to an investigation of the third harmonic production in its dependence upon the properties of hysteresis loops. These loop constants in turn are shown to be deducible from AC bridge measurements on a coil of known dimensions having a core of the magnetic material under investigation. The loop constants for a few materials are included in the text. An analogy exists between the treatments of hysteresis loop and of three-element vacuum tube characteristics which enables us to compare simplifying relations introduced by Rayleigh and by H. J. van der Bijl in the two cases. The theoretical deductions are found to be in general agreement with experiment, and are applied to a number of cases of practical interest. These include the effects of air gaps and dilution, and the choice of core material in third harmonic production by inductance coils and transformers. Finally, the amount of third harmonic current flowing out of long lines is deduced with both lumped and continuous loading."
"THE present development of air transport is bringing out its need for adequate communication in much the same manner as the earlier development of railway operations disclosed for that industry the necessity of special communication services if speed and density of traffic were to be obtained with safety. The electric telegraph by a most fortunate coincidence was available just at the time the railways required it; and as the demand for speed became pressing the telephone was perfected. Today the railways of the country, in general, use the telegraph for administrative messages, where a written record is wanted, and use the telephone for despatching, where speed and accuracy are primary requirements."
"Infiuence of Carbon and Silicon Variations in Grey Cast Iron.1 D. G. ANDERSON and G. R. RESSMER. In this short article the author gives the results of a series of tests of grey cast irons with different carbon and silicon contents. Three series were run in each of which the silicon content was kept constant and the amount of carbon varied. The results indicated that with two percent silicon the carbon content may be reduced without materially increasing the amount of combined carbon. This results in some improvement in the physical properties of the iron."
"GEORCE A. CAMPBELL, B.S., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1891; A.B., Harvard, 1892; Ph.D., 1901; Gottingen, Vienna and Paris, 1893–96; Mechanical Department, American Bell Telephone Company, 1897; Engineering Department, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, 1903–19; Department of Development and Research, 1919– Research Engineer, 1908–. Dr. Campbell has published papers on loading and the theory of electric circuits, including electric wavefilters, and is also well known to telephone engineers for his contributions to repeater and substation circuits."
"Various ways of determining the acoustic impedance and the absorption coefficient of porous materials from measurements on the standing waves in tubes are discussed. In all cases the material under investigation is placed at one end of the tube and the sound is introduced at the other end. Values of the coefficient of absorption of a number of commonly used damping materials as obtained by one of the methods are given. Several types of built-up structures are shown to have a greater absorption coefficient for low frequency sound waves than is conveniently obtainable by a single layer of material."
"THE theory of electrical transmission along straight parallel guiding conductors is of fundamental importance to the communication engineer. In its original, and largely in its present day form, it involves only relatively simple concepts which go back to the early work of Kelvin and Heaviside. In accordance with these concepts the transmission phenomena are completely determined by the self and mutual impedances of the conductors and the self and mutual capacities (together with the dielectric leakage). As a consequence, the phenomena are completely expressed in terms of the propagation constants and corresponding characteristic impedances of the possible modes of propagation deducible from these underlying concepts."
"EVERY day we base conclusions on the results of the process commonly known as “sampling.” For example, if five times in a week a man has waited ten minutes or more for his trolley at a street corner, he may conclude that the transportation facilities are poor. Or again, if a housewife has bought ten loaves of bread at a certain store and has found five of them not as fresh as might be desired, she decides that in the future she will buy her bread elsewhere. Both of these conclusions are based on an intuitive application of sampling theory. Such examples could be multiplied indefinitely."
"This paper describes precision high-frequency measurements of a fundamental type, special emphasis being placed on the measuring circuits rather than on the types of apparatus measured. Standards of frequency, resistance, capacitance, and inductance are discussed briefly. Bridge measurements are described for the measurement of frequency, inductance, effective resistance, capacitance, dielectric loss, capacitance balance and inductance balance. Circuits for the measurement of other high-frequency characteristics such as attenuation, gain, and cross-talk are included."
"This article is taken from the manuscript prepared by the author for his address at the joint meeting of Section B of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Physical Society on December 28, 1927, at Nashville, Tennessee. An account of this work giving fuller experimental details is given by Davisson and Germer in the December, 1927, issue of the Physical Review. These experiments are fundamental to some of the newer theories in physics. Until they were performed, it could be said that all experimental facts about the electron could be explained by regarding it as a particle of negative electricity. It now appears that in some way a “wave-length” is connected with the electron's behavior. The work thus shows an interesting contrast with the discovery of A. H. Compton that a ray of light (a light pulse) suffers a change of wave-length upon impact with an electron, the change of wave-length corresponding exactly to the momentum gained by the electron. Until Compton's work, all the known facts about light could be explained by thinking of light as a wave motion. The Compton effect seems to prove the existence of particles of light. Physics is thus faced with a double duality. Compton showed that light is in some sense both a wave motion and a stream of particles. Davisson and Germer have now shown that a beam of electrons is in some sense both a stream of particles and a wave motion. At the same time, theoretical advances have been made which seem to pave the way for an understanding of this curious situation. A general account of these new developments was given by K. K. Darrow in his series “Contemporary Advances in Physics” in the Bell System Technical Journal for October, 1927. Some remarks on the relation of the Davisson and Germer experiments to the new mechanics were given in this article, p. 692 et seq. — Editor."
"The term grid current modulator is used to describe those vacuum tube circuits in which modulation is initially produced in the grid circuit of a three-electrode vacuum tube due to the non-linear grid current-grid voltage relation. Comparison with a representative plate current modulator using the same tubes and the same plate potential shows that by modulating at maximum efficiency in the grid circuit and using the plate circuit solely for amplification, the maximum power output is increased about eight times, the power efficiency is increased about five times and the ratio of sideband output to signal input is increased approximately three times. Under these conditions more carrier input power is needed for the grid than for the plate modulator. This improved performance has been made possible by a detailed study of the fundamental processes involved and by a design of the tubes and associated equipment, such as transformers and filters, to permit these fundamental processes to operate to their best advantage. Normally modulation is also produced in the plate circuit which is shown to be out of phase with that produced in the grid circuit. By inserting high impedances to the input frequencies in the plate circuit, plate circuit modulation is prevented, and the reduction of grid circuit sideband is likewise avoided. By including in the grid circuit an impedance which is high to the desired sideband frequencies, the maximum grid sideband voltage is obtained. In this way the power and modulating efficiencies of the tube circuit are made maximum. Where modulation occurs only in the plate circuit of a tube, the sideband amplitude is proportional to the product of the amplitudes of the input frequencies when these amplitudes are small. In the present type of grid current modulator the sideband amplitude is proportional to the smaller of the two input amplitudes provided the ratio between these is greater than about 3/2. This feature makes the modulator particularly valuable in communication systems. The article concludes with an application of the fundamental principles involved to an experimental carrier telephone system in which the operating features of tubes, filters, and transformers are discussed."
"This paper describes a telephone receiver of the moving coil type which is particularly adaptable to the horn type of loud speaker and which represents a notable advance over similar devices at present available. Its design is such as to permit of a continuous electrical input of 30 watts as contrasted with the largest capacity heretofore available of about 5 watts. In addition, measurements show that the receiver has a conversion efficiency from electrical to sound energy varying between 10 and 50 per cent in the frequency range of 60 to 7,500 cycles. Throughout most of this range, its efficiency is 50 per cent or better. This contrasts with an average efficiency of about 1 per cent for other loud speakers either of the horn or cone type. Combining the 50 fold increase in efficiency with a 5 or 6 fold increase in power capacity, a single loud speaker unit of the type here described is capable of 250 to 300 times the sound output of anything heretofore available. This device is in commercial use in connection with the Vitaphone and Movietone types of talking motion pictures. As commercially produced in quantities numbering several thousand, an average efficiency of the order of 30 per cent has been realized."
"A Photo-electric Process of Halftone Negative Making Applicable over Telephone Lines.1 H. E. IVES. The commercial process of making halftone engravings breaks the picture up into a large number of dots by means of a screen. Unless special intermediate processes are adopted this does not reproduce the tones correctly because the size of the dots is not directly proportional to the light intensity. This paper describes an adaptation of the photo-electric system of picture transmission, as an alternative for use of screen, which produces individual dots more accurately proportional in size to the light intensity."
"E. C. WENTE, A.B., University of Michigan, 1911; S.B. in Electrical Engineering, Mass. Inst. of Technology, 1914; Ph.D., Yale University, 1918; instructor in physics and mathematics, Lake Forest College. 1911–12; Engineering Department, Western Electric Company, 1914–16, 1918–24; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1924–. Mr. Vente has worked principally on general acoustic problems and on the development of special types of acoustic devices."
"On February 16th last, a joint session of the Institution of Electrical Engineers in London and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in New York was made possible by the transatlantic telephone. The audience in New York numbered over one thousand and that in London was several hundred. The two audiences Were called to order at 10:30 A.M. New York time by Mr. Bancroft Gherardi, president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, and several papers were read both in New York and London to which the two audiences listened simultaneously. This joint meeting marks such an important milestone in the history of electrical communication that its entire proceedings are reproduced herewith. They are entirely self explanatory."
"This paper, which, as it was read, was prefatory to the joint meeting, describes in rather non-technical terms the engineering problems involved in developing the transatlantic radio trunk by means of which the American telephone system of some 18,000,000 stations can communicate with the English telephone system of about 1,500,000 telephones, and also with the telephone systems of other European countries."
"This paper describes some of the differences in operating practice on the two sides of the Atlantic and plans which were worked out for taking account of them in the handling of commercial transoceanic calls. Difference in the language is also another problem which has required solution. Data are included giving an idea as to the extent to which the transatlantic connection was used during its first year, there having been established during this time a total of something over 2,300 connections."
"The importance of the rôcle played by the steady state phase characteristics of long cable circuits has recently been emphasized in telephone and telegraph transmission. In this paper an analytical exposition of the theory of phase distortion is followed by a consideration of various methods of phase distortion correction with particular reference to terminal phase compensating networks and to the application of the lattice network to the loaded line as a terminal phase corrector."
"The invention of permalloy and its application to submarine cables have led to the installation of transoceanic cables of many times the traffic-carrying capacity of the former non-loaded cables. This paper relates briefly the history of the development of permalloy-loaded cables and discusses certain outstanding problems concerned with their design, construction and operation. In a concluding general survey the field of usefulness of loaded submarine telegraph cables is considered. To a considerable extent the paper is a critical summary of material previously published by members of the staff of the Bell Telephone Laboratories. Its scope is indicated by the sub-titles as follows: Loaded Cables Now in Service Historical Remarks Permalloy and Its Application to Cables Principles of Design of Loaded Cables Principles Involved in Operation Apparatus for Restoration of Signals Apparatus for Automatic Operation Electrical Measurements of Loaded Cables A General Survey"
"The rapid development in the technique of wire transmission and the increasing complexity of the problems involved calls for a more adequate theoretical guide and a more rigorous transmission theory. This paper gives an account, practically without mathematics, of classical transmission theory and its limitations; of the several ways the problem may be attacked more fundamentally and rigorously, and the lines along which transmission theory must be extended, as the writer has come to view the problem in the light of his own experience."
"FOR twenty years and more we have been hearing continually about the conflict between the corpuscular and the undulatory theories of light, and it is possible that for years to come we may be hearing about a similar contest between the wave-theory and the particle-theory of matter. Furthermore, there are intimations that if an adequate theory either of light or of matter ever is attained, it will involve conceptions of waves which in certain limiting cases approach to conceptions of particles. Already it is established that the appropriate way to attack the typical problems of the atom consists in setting up a wave-equation, and dealing with it in the same manner as one adopts to solve the typical problem of acoustics: how to determine the resonance-frequencies of a piece of elastic matter, such as a taut wire or a drumhead or a column of air in a tube. Therefore it seems opportune to restudy, with care and in detail, the great classical example of a wave-theory highly developed and widely successfulthe great theory of light dimly foreshadowed by Huygens, endowed with its essen tial attributes by Young and Fresnel and Kirchhoff and a host of their coevals, utilized in the design of a multitude of ingenious instruments, perfected by Maxwell and connected with the theory of electricity and magnetism, and serving to this day as the basis for the theory of quanta. So doing, we shall be reminded of many triumphs of the past century of physical research, discoveries which in their time were as exciting as new quantum phenomena in ours; we shall notice certain achievements themselves as recent as those of quanta, and perhaps not less impressive; we shall retrace the reasonings which led to certain conclusions which the quantum-theories, unable to do without them and yet incompetent to derive them, have taken bodily over from their forerunner; we shall reconsider the evidence which in the litigation of a century ago caused the verdict to be rendered in favour of the wave-theory over the particle-theory; and perhaps incidentally we shall be drilling ourselves to test the evidence lately submitted and still to be submitted in the appeal of that case, and in the hearing of that other which impends."
"T H E manufacture of telephone cable consists essentially of insulating copper wire with paper, twisting two insulated wires together to form a pair, again twisting to form a quad if quadded cable is to be made, stranding these pairs or quads into a compact core, removing moisture, covering the core with a continuous sheath of lead or lead alloy, testing the completed cable and packing it for shipment."
"A bridge circuit fur measuring time intervals from about one ten-thousandths of a second up to several seconds is described and its operation explained. The device is fairly accurate and easy to operate and gives the results of measurements in fractions of a second directly. Its calibration can readily be determined mathematically since it is dependent only upon the values of certain capacities and resistances used in the measuring circuit."
"This paper outlines a method of rating manufactured product. In the particular form here described, the rate has been found very useful for measuring the quality of communication equipment and materials entering the plant of the Bell System. While the primary object is control of quality of finished product, it is proving useful for measuring the workmanship of individual operators and groups of operators engaged in similar production work. Particular attention is directed to the statistical aspects of the rate to show how it can assist in controlling quality."
"A Note on the Thermionic Work Function of Tungsten.1 C. DAVISSOX and L. H. GERMER. It has been pointed out that the authors in a previous paper2 had neglected to apply a correction for the “Schottky Effect” to their results. The present note applies this correction which is found to be comparatively small and does not materially affect the results given before. A fuller discussion of the interpretation of the work function measurements previously reported is also included in this note."
"O. B. BLACKWELL, B.S. in electrical engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After graduation, he entered the Engineering Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company as engineer and in 1919 was made Transmission Development Engineer. Mr. Blackwell has general supervision of transmission developments and by virtue of his position has been prominently associated with progress in long distance wire and radio telephony."
"Fellow Members, Guests, and Visitors of the Society: This meeting is the realization of an ambition of many years standing in our Society that we might some time gather in this center of production and get better acquainted with those responsible for production."
"Mr. Douglas Fairbanks: We are here tonight to do honor to the gentlemen who are responsible for the mechanical and scientific instruments with which motion pictures are made—to you who make and perfect the tools and have made possible the achievements of motion pictures today."
"The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is an interesting experiment in organization engineering. It is an attempt to combine in one unified body the members of several associated but diversified creative arts, on a basis of friendly co-operation for the common good."
"The amateur motion picture movement having reached important proportions without any particular reference to its big brother, the professional motion picture, now finds itself very definitely concerned with the professional through the entry of several of the large producing companies into this new field of film distribution. Conversely, the professional field has for some months shown a very definite interest in the development of the amateur industry. Therefore, it may be helpful toward a mutually pleasant and profitable relationship between these two branches of the motion picture industry, to outline briefly the significant amateur developments which have a bearing on professional activity in this field, as well as to attempt translating these developments and tendencies into possible guides for future action."
"I have chosen this subject at the risk of covering ground which may be familiar to many of you because I regard the maintenance and development of the foreign field for American motion pictures as perhaps the most important single factor confronting the trade today. No other major industry in this country depends on foreign markets for its profits in any such degree as does the film industry. Over 30 per cent of the gross revenues from all sources on American films come from outside the United States and in the case of certain individual companies this percentage total runs even higher. In other words, if for any reason the returns from abroad were eliminated or even seriously curtailed, it would place the film business and its allied trades in a rather unfortunate position."
"A scenario writer is a Creative Genius who writes a magnificent scenario which would have been a great picture if a Stupid Director had not ruined it. A director is a God-given Personage, who would have made a great picture if the scenario writer and the actors had not been impossible. An actor is a Divinely-inspired Superman who would have given a great performance had not the scenario writer, the director, and the producer been insane. And a producer is a Heaven-sent Blessing to Mankind who would have produced a great picture had not the scenario writer, the director, and the actors murdered his original conception."
"In gathering together the material for this talk on the art director, it has been my endeavor to present a part of the science of motion picture production with which I feel sure the majority of you are quite unfamiliar, and yet it is necessary for a complete understanding of the various factors which enter into the making of a motion picture."
"In the past two years the employment of extras has been centralized in a free employment bureau, owned and operated by the members of the Association of Motion Picture Producers. Prior to this, extra players either secured employment through commercial casting offices, paying a fee of from 7 per cent to 10 per cent of each day's check, or they made the daily rounds of the studios, soliciting work. With the development of the industry, the producers felt that more attention should be given to the industrial problems of the industry. At the suggestion of Mr. Hays, Miss Mary Van Kleek, of the Russell Sage Foundation, made a brief survey and among her recommendations suggested a special study of employment. This study was carried on for a year, with the co-operation of the State Labor Commissioner, and in January, 1925, the Central Casting Corporation was established."
"It is the purpose of this paper to present a brief sketch of a method of recording and reproducing sounds to accompany the action of motion pictures and to demonstrate one form of the results."
"The art of recording and reproducing motion pictures is going to be expanded. In a short time general use of “speaking film” processes will be a matter of fact. In the following lines I will try to give a short review of the principles involved in the acoustics of recording and reproducing rooms and I hope my paper may be of some interest to those who will devote themselves sooner or later to that new division of the motion picture art."
"I suppose there has never been an invention quite like radio vision, radio movies, and “television.” Certainly no other invention has ever had so much anticipatory publicity. The method and mechanism which has now been demonstrated was fully described and illustrated in public documents as long ago as 1884, and its attainment has been predicted by writers ever since."
"The motion picture has provided us with a method by which a scene or a number of scenes may be re-enacted many times and simultaneously in many places. When proper attention is paid to the photographic technique, the screen result is a satisfactory representation of the brightness values of the corresponding picture areas. Assuming that the brightness or tone values of the subject have been reproduced correctly, the result may still be unnatural in appearance because of faulty perspective. The distortion produced by sitting too far from the axis of projection in the theater is of course very well known. In the present paper, a form of perspective distortion will be considered which would exist even if it were possible to view the picture from a point on the axis of projection. It will be shown that, under given conditions, there is only one point along the axis of projection for which the perspective is correct. This point should obviously be chosen in approximately the center of the theater in order that the average amount of distortion over the whole auditorium may be a minimum."
"The management of motion picture theaters has been developed to a high degree and has risen to the dignity of a profession. There are over fifteen thousand persons in the United States who are managing theaters of different types, and the experiences of these men have developed certain definite methods, which, in a measure, constitute a practice which controls the different phases of theater management."
"The embellishment of the entertainment program with artistic lighting effects is prevalent in many of the finest motion picture theaters. Changing color effects are produced by the use of numerous flood and spot lights controlled by elaborate systems of dimmers, and pleasing ornamental designs are procured by the projection of lantern slides either singly or in multiple. Such effects are usually of the static type although a certain amount of mobility can be obtained by the use of devices for fading-out one design and simultaneously fading-in another, and by variable color filters which can be moved across the optical axis of the projecting system. In general, however, the element of motion with its powerful appeal to the average motion picture audience is entirely lacking."
"An account was recently published by E. P. Wightman and one of us1 concerning the development of silver bromide grains. Motion photomicrographs of the progress of development were made at that time by E. P. Wightman, using a four mm. water immersion objective immersed in a drop of dilute developer placed on a single-grain layer plate. The optical resolution obtainable by this method leaves much to be desired, and the presence of so much liquid between the objective and object slide gives rise to difficulties resulting from vibration and striation. Recently, a method has been devised which permits the use of a 1.8 mm, oil immersion objective. The consequent resolution is considerably enhanced and the difficulties of the former method are minimized."
"During the past six or seven years scenes involving the making of motion pictures in airplanes have been included in a number of photoplays. About a year and a half ago production was started on a war epic of the air which was to be entitled Wings and in making this picture many problems in aerial cinematography were solved."
"The still picture plays a very important part in the motion picture industry, although, with the exception of a few who come into daily contact with it, its importance and its uses are but slightly known. To be sure, one says, almost immediately, “Why of course they are used to advertise the picture.” This is correct, but there are equally important minor roles to be played by the still pictures before they are used for advertising purposes."
"In an industry demanding continuous technical evolution, such as that of motion picture production, it is well to make a periodical examination of the results achieved in order that we may properly orient ourselves and obtain a more complete idea of the next moves to be made. Such a summation constitutes a mental vantage point from which one may view the trail ahead. The following is an attempt to cover this requirement insofar as it applies to the field and functions of the motion picture production laboratory, but refers more particularly to the laboratory having a weekly capacity of about three million feet of the highest grade release."
"The negative developing machine recently installed by the Universal Pictures Corporation is an improved Spoor-Thompson Patent machine, manufactured by the Bennett Laboratories of Hollywood, who have the exclusive rights of manufacture."
"The exigencies of the art of motion picture photography have been instrumental in creating a constant demand for photographic objectives possessing the largest possible aperture compatible with the degree of sharpness and depth of focus which are requisite for the obtention of pleasing photographic results."
"A Great many people have said recently, and some of them may have believed it, that the artistic future of the motion picture was in the hands of the amateur. They were of course using the word amateur as an antithesis to everything bad in professional practice. The word professional can be used outside of its proper meaning either as a compliment or as an insult, either to designate seriousness of purpose and knowledge of means, or on the other hand, standardization at the expense of feeling, perfunctory haste in production, and callous and inappropriate imitation of known commercial successes. But really there are only three kinds of pictures, good, bad, and medium. Everyone has seen bad films with plenty of the latest professional surface glitter and good films in which every drawback known to photography has not upset the well-conceived plan or the good luck of the director. Certainly what is called the amateur spirit, the desire for sincerity and freshness of treatment, is not incompatible with a professional desire to have your film a success. More good amateur films have been made by professionals or semi-professionals than by strict amateurs, the strict amateurs having only the one slightly disheartening advantage that their films do not have to be cut up and titled by ill-disposed distributing organizations."
"Photographic sensitometry was first put on a scientific basis by Hurter and Driffield (J. Soc. Chem. Ind., 9: pp.455-469) in 1890 with their classic paper, Photo-chemical Investigations and a New Method of Determination of the Sensitiveness of Photographic Plates. Hurter and Driffield used a sperm candle (the British standard of candle-power at that time) for their illumination. While many improvements have been made in their sensitometric procedure, a satisfactory standard quality of illumination has not yet been generally adopted. In both research and the testing of light sensitive materials, particularly those used for negatives, light sources having relatively low color temperatures (such as the candle, acetylene flame, or Mazda B or C lamp) will not give data consistent with actual practice. Different types of photographic emulsions (ordinary, orthochromatic, and panchromatic) have widely different spectral sensitiveness, and relative speeds determined by the use of unfiltered artificial illuminants will be radically different from the relative speeds under sunlight, to which the great majority of photographic negative materials are exposed. The problem has been thoroughly considered in a report on “The Unit of Photographic Intensity” (Special Committee, Optical Society of America, L. A. Jones, Chairman, J.O.S.A. & R.S.I., 12: pp. 567–586; June, 1926)."
"Photographing the Mt. Everest climb certainly lives in my memory as the most difficult task I have ever encountered in open-air naturalistic photography. It was a privilege for me to act as picture historian for this famous expedition and perhaps the following notes from experiences gained may be of interest and utility to other photographers who may undertake motion picture photography at high altitudes."
"THE event of the first six months of 1928 that attracted the greatest public attention was, of course, the sound or talking motion picture. The technical press has also paid considerable attention to sound production to the exclusion of other familiar subjects. The amateur motion picture is beginning to take a prominent part in the literature, and as this is an attractive field of endeavor for the inventor a large number of technical articles have been published. In general, the literature of motion pictures has taken a great increase during the last few months, so great an increase in fact that in making up this report some thought had to be given to the subject of economy of space, or otherwise it would get out of reasonable bounds."
"BECAUSE something new has happened to the motion picture industry, this gathering is full of new faces. So, in behalf of the new talking motion picture engineers, it is proper to explain and define at the outset just what this film business is. To be exact, it, consists simply in selling to a motion picture exhibitor his own state of anticipation about what he thinks an audience will think about some shadows which we will rent to him for a few hours on some future date. That is, I submit, highly intangible merchandise."
"NOW that the plump motion picture prodigy has been given a voice and one has heard him utter words, sometimes a trifle too sonorous, it remains for the child to be taught to talk intelligently, or in a less recitational tone than has been the case so far with most dialogue films. The fact that the shadow is heard means that more and more will be expected from the screen, but, so far, in a number of instances the vocal end has weakened the acting, for the players in their anxiety to reach the microphone have forgotten that words arc not enough; that they must be accompanied by facial expressions and gestures."
"THIS report of progress in the motion picture industry is composed of abstracts taken from the public press and from technical journals and transactions of scientific societies. The items reported therefore consist of opinions, plans, hopes, as well as the facts of solid accomplishment and the vital statistics of the industry. The report is necessarily brief and incomplete, but it is hoped that it indicates clearly the several strong trends that are moving the industry at the present time."
"IN THE following paper I am going to attempt to deal with some of the problems of directing, and especially with the mechanics of the direction of motion."
"AMOTION picture director in many respects occupies a position analogous to the leader of an orchestra. The leader has to wave a baton in order to get the right tempo. He has to see that the bassoon does not come in while the violin is playing its solo. Likewise a motion picture director has to hold together all the departments, he has to see that they all function on time, and that everything meets on the little set where the camera is going to turn for a few minutes."
"IT IS unfair of the scientific world to expect the cinematographer to assume the responsibility of securing satisfactory pictures of of the vari-colored effects that are only too often placed on the set much against his will. There are many influences that demand the use of colors without the slightest consideration of their photographic value, yet the responsibility of the result lies with the cinematographer."
"IN USING the picture Sunrise as subject matter for a discussion of “Dramatic Cinematography,” there are numerous and various elements to be taken into consideration. In the development of the modern photoplay or motion picture, considerable advance has been made in the psychological treatment of the story chosen to be filmed. Heretofore, unfortunately, stories have been treated in the literary fashion of animated scripts or photo versions of stage plays; that is, a superabundance of conversational titles with incidental action in picture form has resulted. I believe, however, that Sunrise is the fore-runner of a new type of picture play in which thought is expressed pictorially instead of by titles. I am sorry to say that Sunrise as released, contains twice as many titles,-more or less explanatory-v-as the original script contained. This was done as a concession to the great public, which presumably cannot as yet take its entertainment by seeing and thinking for itself. The script of Sunrise, however, written very cleverly by Carl Mayer, has a mood or sense of dramatic feeling and timing, that makes it rather simple to visualize the action. From this script then, dealing with drama in picture form, it became a matter of reducing the action described to definite scenes in sets or settings designed to create a series of impressions, which make up the picture. In the case of Sunrise, some two hundred sketches were made by Rochus Gliese the Art Director or Visualizer, representing the two hundred scenes from the script, from which small plaster models were made of the more important sets. These gave the cinematographers firsthand information before actual photographing commenced so that all the lighting possibilities would be arranged and prepared, before the real sets were finished."
"THERE have been several papers on color cinematography presented to the Society from time to time and the fundamental principles underlying the various additive and subtractive methods have been so well covered that I do not wish to take up your time or cumber the TRANSACTIONS with repetitions."
"IT IS possible that no other product of human ingenuity, which is so widely used as the lens, is less understood or more prolific in giving birth to fantastic notions. It seems probable that one reason for this may lie in the fact that our complete knowledge of the geometry of image formation is so recent. Another reason probably lies in the relatively small number of people who are trained in the science of lens design. It is not unlikely that the world's supply of people who could design a useful photographic objective starting with nothing but a glass catalog and a table of logarithms or a computing machine, would fall far short of filling this room. Another reason certainly lies in the too often fantastic claims of the manufacturers. The optical industry, although insignificant in total volume of business in comparison with the motion picture industry, steel, or motors has been and still is highly competitive. Hence we have many kinds of lenses which hard-working advertising men have to try to sell. It should not be surprising if some of the less responsible invent some literature which may slightly mislead the uninformed nor is it to be expected that there will not be many people who are convinced thereby, and who enthusiastically believe they see the proof of the claims in the results they obtain."
"MANY of us remember Lyman H. Howe who toured this country for several years, with his famous travel pictures. He began before the birth of the Nickelodeon and continued to be a success for a number of years after our present movie palaces became established. Let us analyze his methods. Most of his subjects were photographed with short focal length lenses. He then brought his audience right into the scene by making his projected picture nearly large enough to fill the average stage opening. It appears that this, together with especially good projection for that time, was the greatest factor of his continued success. The above is cited merely to show that motion pictures of greatly enlarged dimensions are really nothing new."
"INASMUCII as the next meeting of our Society will convene in Hollywood, the home of production and production interests, at the risk of being accused of repetition I am moved to embrace the opportunity thus presented of directing the attention of producers and all those engaged in production activities to the very vital part which the theater projectionist and his work plays in the success of any production and of all productions and indicating how completely till producer must rely upon and is literally at the mercy of, the skill, the care, and the knowledge which the theater projectionist is able to and does put into the placing of his product before the theater going public, at its full measure of artistic value, and therefore at its full measure of box office drawing power."
"BEFORE the principles of the measurement of pulsating currents can be fully understood it is necessary to know the meaning of the terms, “alternating current,” “pulsating current,” and “direct current,” and the characteristics of each form of current."
"ALFRED WEINGARTEN, citizen of Poland, but resident of Berlin, is the inventor and patentee (U.S. Patent No. 1564161-Dec. 1, 1925) of a new and apparently quite practical process for the production of motion picture positives in quantity. In Herr Weingarten's film no silver compounds arc used, resulting in a considerable saving in the cost of raw stock."
"THE fundamental principles underlying the preparation of first quality duplicate negatives were established by Capstaff and Seymour1 in a paper published less than two years ago, and shortly afterwards practical instructions on the use of duplicating film were issued.2 Since the appearance of these publications, however, further experience has been gained relative to the use of duplicating film, and the present paper contains practical notes summarizing the results of this experience."
"MOISTURE plays an important part in determining many of the properties of motion picture film. The amount of moisture to be found in film is approximately a linear function of the relative humidity of the atmosphere with which the film is in equilibrium. The moisture content of a number of uncoated samples of film base which had been stored at room temperature (70° F.) at different humidities varied from 1.2% at a relative humidity of 20% to 4.1% at a relative humidity of 95%."
"THE problem of the spring-driven camera has engaged the attention of inventors for many years. About fourteen years ago, when the Aeroscope-the compressed air-driven camera of Proszinski-was being marketed, I saw the first example of such an apparatus. It was made for Mr. Cherry Kearton who required it for his natural history work. The model in question was not a success, although some pictures were produced by it. The great outstanding difficulty was the speed regulation and the pictures produced by it were therefore defective. What length of film it would run with one winding, I do not know; I merely mention it as being the first spring-driven camera of which I have any knowledge."
"THE term “Magnascope” was created by our organization for popular publicity purposes, and as it is reasonably exact and fairly descriptive, has been retained. Size, however, is not the sole consideration and the word “Magnascope” is in a sense a misnomer. The contrast between the small and large picture is impressive but a very effective illusion of growth is also secured by the gradual withdrawal of the maskings. It is quite possible that the large picture more closely approximates the natural range of vision and is therefore easier on the eye."
"NEWCOMERS in the technical branch of the motion picture industry are usually unfavorably impressed with the intermittent movement of the projectors in universal use. It has been said that nature abhors a vacuum, and it may similarly be said that the mind of the mechanical engineer abhors an intermittent movement. In the projection machine of today, the visiting engineer finds a mechanism of steel feeding a fragile ribbon of celluloid by imparting rapid jerks applied through unyielding sprockets meshing with perforations in the celluloid. It requires no great perspicacity to see that an arrangement of this kind must lead to trouble of various kinds, and most of you will agree with the writer when he says that the intermittent movement constitutes a great hindrance to the simplification of projection apparatus. With the introduction of talking picture apparatus a move in the direction of simplicity will undoubtedly be made and it is the thought of this writer that it is the duty of the Society to study and to encourage development in the field of optical intermittent projectors with the idea of eliminating as much of the existing troubles as possible."
"THE problem of the spring-driven camera has engaged the attention of inventors for many years. About fourteen years ago, when the Aeroscope-the compressed air-driven camera of Proszinski-was being marketed, I saw the first example of such an apparatus. It was made for Mr. Cherry Kearton who required it for his natural history work. The model in question was not a success, although some pictures were produced by it. The great outstanding difficulty was the speed regulation and the pictures produced by it were therefore defective. What length of film it would run with one winding, I do not know; I merely mention it as being the first spring-driven camera of which I have any knowledge."
"CINEMATOGRAPHY as practiced today has come to be a very complicated process. The Last Laugh, Variety, and Metropolis, all German made pictures started a tremendous competition among our producers. These pictures gave a new meaning to camera technique and caused a change in the methods of picture construction which are nothing less than revolutionary."
"A PAPER dealing with relative visual and photographic efficiencies of illuminants1 was published from this laboratory some years ago. This was followed by a communication in which the use of artificial light in the motion picture studio was discussed.2 Since that time considerable progress has been made in the production of artificial light and many new and improved light sources have become available for use in the studio. During the past two or three years great improvement has been made in the photographic materials applicable to motion picture work, both with respect to the total or white light speed and from the standpoint of the sensitivity of all to the wave-lengths of radiation within the visible spectrum. The data relative to the photographic characteristics of illuminants published in the communications mentioned above covered the field very satisfactorily at the time, but in order to bring this information up to date, it now seems desirable to publish further information applying particularly to the more modern light sources and photographic materials. That these values may be of immediate practical use the measurements have been made by a very direct experimental method. It seems desirable, however, before taking up the discussion of this method and the results, to consider briefly some of the theoretical relationships involved in the determination of the photographic characteristics of a light source. For a more complete treatment of this phase of the subject reference should be made to the previous publications."
"THE investigation on the adaptability of incandescent tungsten filament lamps for the purpose of lighting motion picture sets is still under intensive study and therefore this communication can deal only with conclusions of a general practical nature which have been derived from the extensive series of tests which have been conducted recently by the American Society of Cinematographers under the auspices of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and the Motion Picture Producers' Association."
"THE outstanding advance of the motion picture producing industry during the year just past has been the business approach to every phase of its operation; paralleled by technical developments in film emulsions, both factors have profoundly affected studio lighting practice. One result has been a rapid trend toward incandescent lighting."
"ADISTINCTION must be clearly drawn between the physical phenomena of a tungsten filament and the similar phenomena when the tungsten is part of an incandescent lamp. Therefore this paper is composed of two main parts: the first of which gives a brief outline of the characteristics of pure tungsten wire in vacuo; and the second which deals with the tungsten lamp of commerce."
"FOR a number of years there have been commercially available several flame arc carbons which produce light of various colors but there have been no data generally available as to the visual candle power or the distribution of the energy of these lights in various parts of the spectrum until the publications by Coblenz, Dorcas, and Hughes1 and M.J. Dorcas2 within the past two or three years. These publications have given data as to the energy distribution of some of these arcs but nothing as to the visual candle power and the energy efficiency. Their data also, are as a rule, not at currents and voltages ordinarily encountered in the studio."
"AT THE fall Meeting of our Society, held at Lake Placid, it was my pleasure to outline the progress made in the use of tungsten filament globes in motion picture production up to that time. Since that date, largely due to the co-operation of the American Society of Cinematographers, The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and the Motion Picture Producers Association, unusual progress has been made toward solving the many problems which this form of lighting has presented."
"ALTHOUGH I have titled this paper as dealing with trick photography, this term has been discarded in Hollywood in favor of the term “special process work.”"
"IN NEW LONDON, a few weeks ago, “The Patriot,” one of the finest motion pictures ever made, opened to an audience of barely three hundred people. In a rival theatre, “The Perfect Crime,” a sound picture with little else to recommend it had a packed house and lines before the box-office."
"THE motion picture is being born all over again. Sound synchronization is bringing to the motion picture theatre a second chapter of progress, not alone because of the great interest shown by the public in sound synchronization but because of the re-created interest that it has brought to the entire industry. The advent of sound or talking motion pictures has resulted in the quickening of the pulse of many in every department of motion picture production. All in the motion picture world are taking stock of themselves and are giving more serious thought than ever to their future. They all realize that they must adjust themselves to the new conditions brought on because of this development. Therefore, if sound synchronization accomplishes nothing else, it has brought a new note of responsibility to the industry, and consequently it will mean that we are facing a period that will see not alone a continued development of sound motion pictures but also the raising of the level of the silent motion pictures. It is to be expected that the advocates of the silent motion picture will make every effort to hold their place with the public. All this will result in a higher standard of entertainment, be it silent or with sound. This cannot help but hold the attention of the public, and the new condition brought about should therefore benefit everyone."
"A SUMMARY and survey of the sound recording situation in Hollywood must include activities of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences as representing the five production branches of the industry."
"IN THE early communication of man, gestures, grimaces and vocal sounds probably played equally important parts. Although all three have survived, the voice has become the one most universally used. With the invention of the telephone and the phonograph it became possible for man to communicate at a distance and to perpetuate his speech. Now man may communicate at a distance and perpetuate, not only his speech, but his grimaces and gestures as well."
"SOUND may be defined as the sensation resulting from the action of an external stimulus on the sensitive nerve apparatus of the ear. It is a species of reaction to this external stimulus, excitable only through the ear, and distinct from any other sensation."
"THAT sound as perceived by the ear is the result of a disturbance in the air was known to the ancient Greeks, and that objects are set in vibration by intense sounds must have been observed by primitive man, but it was not until 1857, or less than a century ago, that the first instrument was constructed for making a graphical record of sound waves. In that year Léon Scott patented in France an instrument which he called the phonautograph."
"IN ORDER to reproduce in the theatre the pictorial record of events accompanied by the sound associated with those events, it is, of course, necessary to add some additional equipment to that installed to produce the silent motion picture. It is the purpose of this paper to outline and discuss briefly the major items of this equipment as used in the Western Electric sound projector systems."
"The first part of this paper has described the equipment employed for sound reproduction in theatres. It is the purpose of this, the second part, to explain the manner in which such equipment is installed and operated."
"WHEN Thomas A. Edison gave a demonstration of his talking motion pictures nearly 16 years ago one of his chief problems was proper synchronization between his acoustic phonograph and the motion picture projector. It was then necessary to locate the phonograph behind the screen in order to make the sound appear to come from the picture. A system of belts and pulleys running from one end of the theatre to the other was used to secure synchronization with the projector in the booth."
"IN THE recording and reproducing of sound by the so-called “electric” method with the “wax” disc, the process may be considered as consisting of eleven steps. In order, these are: studio, with its acoustic conditions; microphone; amplifier; electromechanical recorder; “wax” record; copying or reproducing apparatus; hard record or “pressing”; electric pickup; amplifier: loud speaker; auditoriuin."
"THE sound records I am about to describe are of the variable density type, and the method of making them is that developed by Bell Telephone Laboratories."
"TWO types of sound recording on film are in general use, defined according to the sound track produced as variable area-constant density and constant area-variable density. The first type of record is produced by any of the methods employing vibrating mirrors or shutter arrangements. The second type of recording is done by various arrangements falling under two general classifications: (a) pulsating light source, and (b) valve action. Examples of a pulsating light source are the glow lamp of Seibt,1 the Poulson arc,2 and the mercury arc.3 Examples of those coming under the class of valves are the string galvanometer, the double grating, and the Kerr cell."
"THIS paper is concerned with the optical systems employed in the recording of sound on motion picture film. Since it would obviously be impossible to give in one short article all the optical information necessary for the design of a completely satisfactory recording or reproducing system, the scope of this paper has been limited to the light-gathering characteristics of the various well-known systems. This phase of the problem does not often receive sufficient consideration. In fact, the photometry of optical systems in general falls somewhere between the field of interest of the lens designer and that of the illuminating engineer. The former is primarily interested in the perfection of the image formed by the optical system and uses geometrical methods almost exclusively. The latter, on the other hand, although more likely to approach the problem from the standpoint of physical optics, is handicapped in these considerations by an unwieldy system of units."
"IN THE most successful type of sound picture reproducing systems, the synchronization is accomplished by driving the projector from one end of the motor shaft and the record turntable from the opposite end of the same motor shaft."
"GROUND noise is a term ordinarily used to designate extrane-ous sounds which occur on a photographic sound record, or more explicitly, noises which are present on a film that either contains no silver deposit or else has a silver deposit of uniform optical density. The purpose of this paper is to point out some causes of these noises and to show how the noise level increases with repeated runs of the film through the projector."
"THE West winds bring us tidings of an art that is newly born-sound pictures have made their advent, and Hollywood is telling the World in its usual hearty way. Apparently not all the celebrants wholly enjoy the festivities, since we hear of players' frantic efforts to be vocal and of directors who find pantomime rather cramping to their style."
"IN DEALING with this subject, one must of necessity be concerned with general considerations. Each sound recording room presents special problems calling for particular solutions, which arise from conditions that are imposed by necessities which are quite other than acoustical. In the particular case, therefore, the designer of a sound recording studio has to include in his general design problem the special conditions that must be met in order to record sound faithfully, and free from extraneous noise."
"THE scientific study of architectural acoustics is a thing of com-paratively recent years. In 1895 Harvard University had just completed the Fogg Art Museum, containing an auditorium which proved almost unusable. The Corporation of the University appealed to the scientific staff of the faculty for advice and assistance in the matter, and Prof. W. C. Sabine undertook the study of the case. Two years were spent in the investigation of the questions involved, in the course of which experiments were made in a number of existing and satisfactory auditoriums. As a result, certain fundamental but previously unrecognized principles became clear, which later enabled Professor Sabine to predetermine the acoustic design of the new Boston Symphony Hall."
"A PAPER with the above title must of necessity cover consider-able ground for the very simple reason that there is so much ground to cover, not only so far as linings are concerned but as to the peculiar problems facing engineers in which linings play a part."
"THE reproduction of speech and musical sounds has received very careful study by engineers associated with the radio industry. As a result of such study, acoustical reproduction by broadcast receivers and their associated loud speakers has reached a fairly high degree of perfection. To be sure, this is not generally true for all loud speakers and all sets. Nevertheless, the improvements in reproducers and sets which have been brought about during the last three years, have made possible a new appreciation of radio broadcast and reception."
"THE replacement of voices on talking picture films may be accomplished in a relatively simple manner by an invention which for purposes of patent title has been termed a Vivigraph. A film in which voice replacement or voice substitution has been effected may conveniently be termed a Re-Vocalized Film."
"THE technique of recording and reproducing sound for the purposes of “sound-picture films” has created a new problem, that of testing the quality of the reproduced sound. A very obvious method of testing the quality is of course just listening to the reproduction and comparing it with the original speech or music, if you remember it. But it is known very well that the human memory and our ears arc not very reliable. Asking different hearers in the audience, shows you almost as many opinions as there are hearers. I wish to remind you here of what A. O. Rankine, in a paper1 on sound recording, said about the small effect of changing the density of sound records, on the clearness of reproduction. He thinks “only a rough approximation to the original vibrations is necessary in the reproduction of sound for ordinary audition.”"
"WE HAVE in the motion picture, combined with some form of sound reproduction, a comparatively new development that bids fair to become useful in many ways."
"THE introduction of sound pictures necessitated the redesigning and reconstruction of projection rooms as the space allotted to this department is inadequate even in many of the newest theatres. It will be well for architects in future to be fully informed regarding the requirements of a modern projection room. In many instances it was necessary to demolish walls which conform to fire regulations and construct new ones with similar restrictions. It is obvious that this meant much work, expense, loss of time and interference with the work of the projectionist."
"IT MAY, I think, be said without fear of successful contradiction that the advent of sound in synchronization with motion and the almost marvelous progress made in its application to motion pictures, has had a highly beneficial effect upon motion picture projection. Moreover it has performed a very large and much needed service for the industry in general by the shaking up it has administered to pretty nearly every branch of it."
"At the Hollywood meeting, April, 1928, several dimensional standards were presented to the Society by this committee for preliminary approval. These items which have received this required preliminary approval will therefore be considered again at this time. Our constitution requires that any standard shall be presented to the Society and receive favorable action, after which a period of six months must elapse before this standard can be finally adopted. These items are presented with numbers which follow consecutively the standards already adopted (see Transactions of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers, Volume XII Number 34, page 247, 1028, and the booklet containing all of the Society's standards and recommended practice)."
"The Jenkins Laboratories, station W3XK, is broadcasting movies by radio every Monday, Wednesday and Friday evening at 8 o'clock, Eastern Standard Time, on 46.72 meters (6420 K.C.); 48 lines per picture, and 15 pictures per second."
"The principles of photo electricity have been known to the scientific world for nearly 40 years. Very few photo electric cells, however, found their way out of the laboratory until the recent development of television and talking moving pictures. I am going to discuss briefly their history, some of their characteristics and their manufacture and construction."
"Color processes are broadly divided into two classes: the sub-tractive and the additive. In subtractive processes the image is actually composed of colored substances, usually dyes. The Technicolor, for example, is a two-color subtractive process. All subtractive processes worked out thus far require considerable knowledge and skill in processing and are, therefore, unsuitable for amateur photography."
"The Phonograph was invented in 1876 and was a household device by 1888. The Motion Picture was invented in 1889 and became a recognized means of public entertainment by 1895. The one is a record of what we hear and the other a record of what we see."
"The idea of combining the mordanting and dye baths for obtaining dye toned images on motion picture positive film is by no means new. In 1912 Clement and Rivière recommended a single solution bath containing a basic dye, potassium ferricy-anide, potassium iodide, and sulphuric acid. In 1819 Shorrocks2 patented a combined bath containing rhodamine, uranyl ferricy-anide, vanadium chloride, ferric ammonium citrate, sodium citrate, ammonium chloride and hydrochloric acid, while Friese-Greene and Thompson3 were granted an English patent for a combination of a uranium mordanting bath with a basic dye."
"Composite photography has received marked attention in the motion picture industry. The ability to double-expose actors, without phantom, into miniature action, or into distant location shots, has proven an interesting technical adjunct to motion picture production."
"The motion picture art is an exacting one and with its ever increasing problems comes that salient one, voltage regulation."
"For the past seven or eight years motion picture exhibitors have been endeavouring to provide a proper setting for the motion picture which would not only lend atmosphere to the program but would also possess entertainment value in itself."
"The neon arc is considered in this paper largely as a supplementary light to go with the mercury arc. There are points of sharp contrast between these two arcs, and while not enough data are available to give anything like a complete summary of the neon arc, the known facts all indicate that it has great possibilities as a complementary unit to the mercury arc in the particular photographic applications in which this Society is interested. The data here given cover briefly the fundamental characteristics of the hot cathode and the general construction of the lamp, with a brief description of its color, photometric Characteristics, electrical characteristics, and of the engineering possibilities of a combination of the two arcs."
"At the suggestion of Mr. Will Hays, President of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America, Inc., the Nastman Kodak Company recently arranged to coöperate with the American College of Surgeons in the production of a series of educational motion pictures of medical and surgical subjects."
"The purpose of this brief paper is that it may serve as a reminder of some features characteristic of a projection system embodying two projection objectives, with a single source of light, and having twin apertures so arranged that two adjacent frames are projected simultaneously."
"So far as the author has been able to ascertain there are no published data which the designer or operator of motion picture printers can use in the selection of a light source suited to his particular needs. The choice of the lamp and the provision of means for controlling its intensity are usually considered as individual problems for each printer. In this paper quantitative data relative to the printing intensity of several lamps will be presented and several methods of intensity variation will be considered."
"In the manipulation of photographic materials the provision of satisfactory darkroom illumination is of vital importance. This illumination must be of such intensity and quality that a negligible amount of fog is produced when these materials are exposed to its action for the time required to perform the necessary operations on the material. At the same time it is desirable that the illumination be of sufficient intensity and quality so that the operator may work with comfort and certainty. In the earlier days of relatively low-speed materials sensitive only to the blue and blue-green, the problem of illuminating the darkroom was a relatively simple one. These materials could be manipulated under relatively high levels of red illumination without danger of producing objectionable fog. Satisfactory seeing was obtainable with illumination levels adjusted so that the time to produce a perceptible fog was several times as long as that required for the manipulation of the materials. Under these conditions the precise measurement of darkroom illumination was not of great importance since the allowable latitude in intensity was relatively great. With the advent of the high-speed materials sensitive to all wavelengths of the visible spectrum, this problem of providing satisfactory illumination in the darkrooms has assumed greater importance and more and more difficulty has been met in obtaining a darkroom illumination which is satisfactory from the standpoint of both photographic safety and visual requirements. It is necessary to use the maximum allowable illumination which can be tolerated without producing perceptible fog so that the operator may see as much detail as possible. This means that the variation in illumination which can be tolerated is very small and hence a method of measuring these illumination levels with relatively high precision is very desirable. Practically all of the portable photometers and illuminometers on the market are designed specifically for measuring illuminations of relatively high value, such as exist in offices and factories illuminated by natural and artificial means. While these instruments are very satisfactory for this purpose, they do not, in general, function satisfactorily when an attempt is made to use them in darkrooms illuminated for the manipulation of modern high-speed panchromatic materials. The instrument described in this paper was constructed specifically to meet these special requirements of dark room photometry and in its design careful consideration was given to those fundamental visual characteristics which determine the precision with which photometric readings can be made."
"Heat absorbing glass of a bluish green color has been employed in projection apparatus to remove the invisible heat radiation to a greater extent than the visible. Some of its properties have already been described before this Society.1"
"The elimination of the intermittent motion of motion picture film during projection is conceded by nearly everyone to be a most desirable thing. Particularly is this true with the advent of the new era we are entering—that of talking movies, color movies, home movies and probably a combination of these three."
"In Making a series of motion pictures of flowers growing and opening one must have an enormous amount of patience, a love of the subject, and a good outfit that can be handled quickly and is absolutely rigid."
"Two years ago the Department of Tropical Research of the New York Zoological Society planned and carried out a trip to the Bay of Gonave in Haiti for the purpose of studying the fishes of those waters and the life of the coral reefs. Mr. William Beebe, the director of the Expedition, wished to have a permanent record made of the life on the reefs in a form which could be presented to the public. He therefore decided to equip the expedition for taking undersea motion pictures. As the funds available were limited it was necessary to use as simple and inexpensive an outfit as could be devised. On the suggestion of the writer, who accompanied the expedition as cinematographer, a watertight box was designed by Mr. Beebe and Mr. Tee-Van to accommodate a spring-driven camera."
"It is indisputably of great advantage to have an automatic focusing mechanism on title, cartoon and trick cameras. Such a device would be generally appreciated in making certain types of shots in the studio. An auto-focus mechanism relieves the cameraman of the necessity for watching and adjusting the focus of the lens whenever the field is changed. The results obtained in making approach shots are better where the focusing operation is performed mechanically rather than manually. Focusing adjustments are purely mechanical operations and there is no reason to suppose that they cannot be performed by a machine. Experience with several different types of auto-focus devices have proved their practicability."
"The horizontal tray type of continuous processing machine for motion picture film has been accepted as offering very great advantages in accessibility and ease of inspection."
"Developer fog on a plate or film consists of a veil of silver deposited especially on those portions which received little or no exposure and which adds more or less to the total density of the developed image. The appearance of this fog acts as a limiting factor in the time of development, and often interferes with shadow detail. In spite of its importance in practical photography, very little really definite information on the subject exists in the literature."
"Designed as a super-toy, the sixteen millimeter or amateur standard motion picture has become a force with which we must reckon in more serious fields. There can be but little doubt that the educational film, whose advent is inevitable, will be in this size. Experience has already shown that this film is the logical one for commercial, industrial and publicity purposes. More recently, students and scientists have turned toward this film only to be discouraged by the lack of refinement which is noticeable in the equipment at present available. This lack is one which is quite natural; in fact, the available equipment is of far better quality than might be expected in view of the fact that this width has been in use for only a few years."
"The progress being made in some of the color processes and the revival of interest in the talking pictures, have elicited the statement from many sources that “the next step forward is stereoscopic motion pictures”, which will complete the system of reproducing artificially, all of the elements of dramatic art, i. e., speech, action, form, color and solidity."
"Mr. Taylor: Some one intimated to me the other day that I did not give the impression I intended in being critical of loud speaker quality. I have nothing but admiration for the accomplishments of the loud speaker since the time of radio broadcasting, but the difference is great between what we have now and the time of the original train announcing loud speakers. You may recall how unintelligible many of those were; you must admit that great advances have been made."
"The past year has been a notable one in the history of our Society. Of the several things which have taken place, perhaps the most outstanding one was the Spring Convention in Hollywood."
"This account has been audited and certified by Robert G. Sparrow New York City, Accountants & Auditors."
"Mr. Porter: At the Board of Governors' meeting of May 22, 1928, Mr. Louis Lumibre was recommended for honorary membership in the Society. Many of you are familiar with his work on photography and color photography, since he is a man of international fame. Recommendation for honorary membership must be ratified by the Society. I therefore propose this to you."
"The securing of advertisements for the Transactions is getting more and more difficult. Conditions in the industry have changed considerably due to mergers, etc. If our members will make a personal appeal to concerns in the industry it will assist us greatly."
"During the past six months the Papers and publications Committees have continued to function as a unit. Your Chairman regrets, however, that owing to other demands on his time he will not be in a position to continue with the work, but wishes to express his appreciation for the assistance rendered by the various committee members, and especially to Mr. C. E. Ives and Mr. G. E. Matthews of the Eastman Research Laboratories for their untiring efforts in the preparation of abstracts of papers, the organization of manuscripts, and the correction of proof matter."
"The following apparatus was described during the session devoted to announcements of new apparatus by manufacturers."
"The standards in this section apply to storage batteries of the lead-acid type and of the nickeliron alkaline type. They are suitable for large and small batteries in either stationary or portable service."
"These specifications apply to the insulation of electric wire and cable of the grade known as 30 per cent Hevea rubber."
