"Studies of topography and run-off have made possible a comprehensive development of the power resources on the Mokelumne River in California. Originally developed in 1902 to yield 100 million kw-hr. annually, additional storage and increased generating facilities will produce a ten-fold increase in annual output. Two major storage reservoirs and four power houses, one of which replaces the original plant completed in 1902, are included in the program. The entire project is expected to be completed by the summer of 1935 at which time the total fall of more than 5,000 feet available in the Mokelumne River drainage area will have been put to the most economical usage."
"The paper describes operating experience with tie-line load regulators on the tie connecting the Colfax Power Station of the Duquesne Light Co. and the Springdale Station of the West Penn Power Co. A description is given of the equipment used and also of supplementary equipment, such as program loading equipment installed at Colfax to maintain the most economic division of load between the various generating units. A new hydraulic speed changing device intended to reduce wear on the governor parts to a minimum is also described. Tests made jointly by the Duquesne Light and West Penn Power Companies to determine the effect of operating frequency and tie-line regulators simultaneously are discussed and the curves giving the results are shown."
"A new approach to an important problem in the field of electric power is offered by the author, who limits his discussion to the possibilities of tuned lines rather than their practical application. He presents the results of extensive research work, and on the basis of laboratory experiments points out that through the use of higher transmission frequencies, the efficiency of a given line might be increased as much as 500 per cent."
"Radiotelephone service between the United States and Europe was established January 7, 1927 with one circuit and with service to limited areas. Facilities and service have been greatly improved and extended and rates have been reduced. Present scope of service is described and reference made to consistent increases in transatlantic telephone messages handled. This increase indicates that this service is being found of increasing value by the public. Extent of ship-to-shore radiotelephone service from the United States is outlined. Arrangements for service to Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro are described, these differing from arrangements used for service to Europe in that operation to these two cities was planned on a part time basis. Proposed short-wave system for operation with Bermuda and proposed new long-wave system to supplement existing facilities to Europe are mentioned. A description of the new radiotelephone transmitting and receiving stations now being erected at Dixon and Point Reyes, Calif., respectively, is given. These stations will be connected to a terminal office at San Francisco and the system used for the establishment of radiotelephone service to the Hawaiian Islands and later on, to other transpacific points as may be required."
"In 1926 it became apparent that increasing demands for telephone service on the Pacific Coast would warrant the completion of a telephone toll cable between San Francisco and Los Angeles before the end of 1930. This cable, which is the longest west of the Mississippi and which with buildings and equipment represents an investment of approximately $10,000,000 is strategically located for giving service between points on the Pacific Coast and to points on the North American Continent and the Orient. It was completed and placed in service September 2, 1930. It provides approximately 275 telephone circuits or about the same number as would three of the latest type of sixty-wire, six-arm openwire toll leads fully equipped with three-channel carrier telephone systems, and, in addition, certain broadcast and telegraph facilities. Two hundred and seventy miles of the cable is in underground construction, practically all being conduit which was placed specifically for this cable and other similar cables which it is expected will follow. Equipment associated with the cable is placed in eleven buildings along the route, five of which were newly constructed for this purpose. This paper describes the fundamental data used and the methods followed in engineering and locating the cable, the problems met in constructing outside plant and buildings, which were unique in the rugged and isolated section across the Tehachapi Mountains, and certain items of interest in regard to its operation and maintenance."
"A simple, experimental method is described for studying the kindling mechanism of electric sparkover. Experimental evidence is presented which tends to prove that electrons and not protons or positive ions are the active carriers in the kindling mechanism; that Lichtenberg figures form the initial step in the kindling process; that the sparkover channel develops from the positive Lichtenberg figure and that the sparkover path tends to follow the positive and negative Lichtenberg figures streamers."
"Mercury arc rectifier design of today was arrived at in an endeavor to reduce the frequency of backfire. Efficiency and cost are sacrificed to obtain sufficient backfire immunity. Study of backfires in actual rectifiers and laboratory tubes indicates that this occurrence is a random one. Backfires differ in kind from other breakdown phenomena because they do not occur with certainty after some definite limitation has been reached, and in fact no limit can be chosen above which or below which backfires will or will not take place. The state of a rectifier in relation to backfiring must be described in terms of a backfire probability, or average rate of backfire. There are no commercial tank rectifiers for which the mean frequency of backfire is absolutely zero, but some probably reach the low value of one per several years. The significance of the random nature of backfire on the rating and testing of rectifiers is discussed, and suggestions are made as to means for testing which lead to the determination of the true quality of a rectifier. Data are given showing the variation of the backfire rate with current and voltage. The application of these ideas to research and development is illustrated by several examples. The theory of the formation of a backfire is described, and backfires are attributed to ``causes'' which lead to the formation of a cathode spot on an anode, but which do not correspond to any fundamental limitation of the rectifying process."
"In a previous article1 the author showed the manner in which under different conditions the voltage on transmission systems will rise due to the dropping of load, and described some means of limiting the voltage rise to avoid overstressing insulation. This paper describes further means of limiting the voltage under such conditions, considering first an improved type of regulator and wheatstone bridge main exciter field rheostat and second, as an alternative, a method of automatically inserting resistance in the alternator field circuit. Tests are described which show the effectiveness of these methods of limiting the voltage."
"An automatic switching equipment for the control of two 20,000-kw. frequency changer sets using the Scherbius method of load and power factor control has been in successful operation at the Page Avenue station of the Union Electric Light and Power Company of St. Louis, for almost a year. This equipment contains several new features in the automatic control of machines of this type. Besides being the first completely automatic switching equipment applied to machines of this type, it is unique in that it controls the largest rotating machines to which automatic switchgear has ever been applied. The Page Avenue station is one of the most important links in this Company's system of interconnecting plants. It is the point through which the two 25-cycle generating stations, Ashley Street and Keokuk, are tied. It will also be used as one of the ties for the recently completed Bagnell development, on the Osage River, to the 60-cycle generating system of the metropolitan area. These variable-ratio frequency converters are being used for the transfer of power between the 25-cycle and 60-cycle systems."
"Telephone toll cables buried directly in the earth are coming into increased use. The cables are not installed in the more usual clay conduit but are protected by layers of paper, jute, and steel tapes. The experience of the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company in installing some 500 miles of buried cable is described."
"Lightning voltage flashovers have been experienced in substations feeding a 4,800-volt ungrounded distribution system. Lines enter the substations through three-phase, underground cables varying in length from a few hundred to about nine hundred feet. Lightning arresters are connected at the substation bus and at the junctions of overhead lines and entrance cables. The arcovers have consistently occurred on lines equipped with voltage regulators and at points between the line terminal of the regulator and the station end of the entrance cable. Impulse voltage tests were made on one of the substations which had been taken out of commission, to determine the cause of the flashovers and to find a remedy. Surge voltages from a lightning generator were sent into the station through the entrance cable of a circuit equipped with a voltage regulator and volt-time oscillograms were taken at the principal points of interest. Oscillograms are presented which show that the impedances of the regulator series windings to surges were high enough to cause reflections of the incident wave and a consequent building up of voltage at the station end of the entrance cable. It is also shown that the energy drawn from the cable through the regulator series windings is so small for the early part of the wave that the lightning arresters on the bus cannot protect the cable against high-voltage surges which may enter the substation."
"Coatings of various materials, lacquers, oils, oxides or paints were applied to conductors of number 2 B & S gage 257.3 mils diameter, solid aluminum or copper conductors. Measurements of corona energy losses above and below critical corona voltages were made by means of a wattmeter setting and water resistor multiplier."
"The general theory of extinction of a-c. arcs is reviewed. The expulsion fuse is stated to depend upon the gas blast produced by rapid decomposition of fuse tube material under the heat of the arc. Comparison of interrupting capacities of a soapstone fuse tube and a fiber fuse tube supports this view. The effectiveness of the gas blast is stated to be due to the high degree of turbulence it introduces into the confined arc space. The theory of the action of such turbulence is discussed. Data are given as to the composition and volume of gas ejected from a fiber fuse tube. The voltage interrupting capacity vs. ampere characteristics as obtained experimentally, are given for a fiber tube, and a boric acid lined tube. The curves for boric acid lie much higher than for fiber. The characteristics were found to depen dvery materially on the number of half cycles of arcing. Reasons are given for the shape of the characteristics, and their dependence on length of arcing time. Data are given showing the effect of variation in size and shape of the tube section. The design problem is discussed of obtaining sufficiently large voltage interrupting capacity at smaller currents without the development of excessive pressures or unmanageably large volumes of flame at large currents. The use of flame suppressors for deionizing the issuing flame is mentioned."
"Analyzing the oil-blast theory, data are presented to show effect of time and carbon on oil dielectric strength, correlation between voltage recovery rate and required oil velocity, lack of correlation between either current and voltage and necessary oil velocity, correlation between recovery rate and pressure in explosion chambers. Tests on various explosion chamber forms and photographs of the oil blast in action are presented."
"The oil-blast principle of circuit interruption may be applied to oil circuit breakers of many types which cover a wide range of service, voltage and interrupting requirements. Although the mechanical construction and configuration of the interrupting elements varies widely for varying requirements, nevertheless the same principle of operation applies. It is shown that the oil-blast utilized for efficient arc extinction may be produced electrically by decomposition of oil or mechanically by a spring driven piston in an oil cylinder. Whichever of the two methods is employed, comparable performance results. Several types of breakers which operate on the oil-blast principle are described and test data given. In all designs of breakers on which the new principle has been used, marked reductions in arc duration and arc length result, even at the higher rates of recovery voltage rise. The principle is therefore applicable to breakers of the high speed type."
"A recent theory of a-c. arc extinction in gas-blast circuit interrupters is reviewed. It is predicted on the basis of this theory that the interrupting ability of an a-c. arc should increase very considerably with the degree of turbulence to which the arc gases are subjected, and also that the recovery of dielectric strength by a turbulent arc space during a period of zero current should be very rapid for the first few microseconds and then comparatively slow for a considerable time thereafter. Experimental results obtained with an arc in atmospheres of various common gases verify these predictions, and also reveal the importance of the gas medium. A curve has also been obtained showing recovery of dielectric strength with time during the current zero period by an arc in an expulsion fuse tube. This curve has the characteristic shape predicted by the turbulence theory, thus proving the validity of the theory as applied to the behavior of a practical gas-blast device."
"This paper describes a bridge that is adapted to making dielectric measurements of cables whose sheaths are in electrical contact with the ground. A balance to adjust the bridge to the system losses to ground is first made with the test cable disconnected; the bridge is then balanced with the test cable connected. The cable properties such as power loss, power factor and capacitance are then determined directly from this bridge balance. Certain precautions, however, are necessary such as the method of substituting the test cable in circuit and the elimination of the ground currents which may come from the low-voltage system."
"This paper describes an a-c. bridge of high precision, used for power factor measurements in one of the dielectric investigations being carried on at the Johns Hopkins University. The bridge, a modified form of the Schering bridge, possesses several novel features and advantages. The detecting instrument is a moving coil a-c. galvanometer; its field excitation is supplied from a phase shifting transformer, which permits obtaining independent ratio and phase angle balances. A shielded transformer electrostatically isolates the galvanometer from the bridge circuits. This bridge is completely shielded and guarded and the analytical theory of the resulting mesh connection is given in the paper. The mathematical treatment is general and may be applied to any similar network. A full discussion is given of the effects upon the balance relation of various sources of error, for example, as failure to balance guard circuits properly and the presence of leakage resistance between measuring and guard circuits. Experimental verification of the equations is presented. Power factors of specimens of cable material have been measured ranging from 0.00007 to 0.16 with a maximum variation of ± 0.000005."
"This investigation of the relative merits of various possible transformer connections and protective devices was the result of statistical data secured, over a long period of years, by the Commonwealth Edison Company of Chicago regarding the number and types of distribution transformer failures during lightning storms.* It refers to standard, 60 cycle, overhead, power and lighting distribution systems having 4,000-volt, four-wire primaries and three-wire, 230-volt, three-phase power and 115-230-volt lighting secondary mains. Five spans of standard pole line construction were exposed to transient potentials of steep wave front, the latter being induced by the sudden charging of the well insulated artificial clould suspended over the line. The cloud was charged to potentials, up to 150 kv., by means of a surge generator. Measurements of potentials, ranging as high as 40 kv. in some instances which were induced upon various portions of the distribution system were made by means of ionized sphere gaps and the cathode-ray oscillograph. Some of the important conclusions reached as the result of this investigation are: 1. The value of an experimental wood pole distribution line with an insulated artificial cloud charged by means of a surge generator was definitely established for lightning protective investigations involving induced as well as direct stroke potentials. 2. The practicability and economy of studying, by means of such laboratory equipment, the operation of various transformer, lightning arrester and ground connections, when exposed to surges approximating those of lightning, were demonstrated. 3."
"A cooperative field study with portable impulse generator and cathode ray oscillograph was made of the lightning protection of transformers connected to a 4.45-mile 4,600-volt rural distribution circuit. The tests described were made with the pellet arrester. Some of the conclusions are: 1. Although the arrester discharge voltage is but a fraction of the strength of the transformer, yet for the usual connection to ground now commonly employed, arrester ground resistances may be high enough so that the transformer is not protected, resulting in either blownfuses or a windingfailure. 2. Interconnection of the primary arrester ground and secondary neutral gives a high degree of protection to the transformer from surges originating on either primary or secondary regardless of the arrester ground resistance. 3. The interconnection of primary arrester ground and secondary neutral does not increase the magnitude of voltages which appear between various grounded objects on the consumers' premises over that now experienced with exposed secondary conductors and possible bushing flashovers or transformer failure. The effect of the interconnection is to increase the number of impulses reaching the secondary circuits but not their magnitude."
"Usual methods of connecting arresters for the protection of distribution transformers are often inadequate. In service some transformers still flash over although the arrester, in itself, is capable of protecting the transformer with a large margin of safety. Surge current flowing to ground through the ground lead of the arrester gives rise to inductive drop and resistance drop voltages. These voltages added to that permitted by the arrester can be great enough to flash over the transformer bushings to secondary neutral. By interconnecting the ground lead of the arrester and the transformer secondary neutral, the voltage across the transformer insulation is limited to that permitted by the arrester alone. Tests have been made to determine the conditions of surge required to duplicate flashovers that occur in practise. Under such conditions measurements were made of the voltages appearing on a representative secondary circuit when bushing flashovers are permitted, and when flashover is prevented by interconnecting the arrester ground and the transformer secondary neutral."
"The advancement in knowledge of lightning protection, as developed by the investigations in Chicago since the 1920 paper on the same subject, has been largely. due to an intensive study in the past five years made with the active cooperation and assistance of the manufacturers of lightning arresters. The development in recent years of methods of laboratory tests with the lightning generator and the cathode ray oscillograph render unnecessary a continuance of these statistical research investigations. The examination of 474 transformers burned out by lightning indicates the desirability of line transformers with non-aging insulation which will be lightning-proof against induced discharges when protected by the modern types of arresters. A comparison of the troubles on the distribution system due to lightning in Chicago with similar results in other cities indicates that considerable advantage is obtained by the use of the four-wire three-phase system with grounded neutral. Induced discharges of 400 kv. crest value have been noted. Direct strokes account for only 5 per cent of transformer troubles. No evidence could be found of shielding effect against induced discharges due to adjacent high trees, buildings, or other structures. Traveling waves are not a factor in the transformer troubles on the distribution system in Chicago. Modern types of lightning arresters excel the best type of 20 years ago in reduced annual charges, but not in efficiency as a protective device. Extra expense to reduce resistance of lightning arrester grounds below 50 ohms is not warranted."
"This paper presents a five year history of the results of lightning arrester protection for distribution transformers in New England where the normal ground electrode resistance is much higher than in most other parts of this country. The experience shows that the trouble rate of the protected transformers has consistently been materially less than that of those not protected, notwithstanding the seemingly adverse conditions. It also shows that the effectiveness of the arresters is practically independent of the ground resistance when above a value of 100 ohms. Design features of transformers are shown to be of prime importance in reducing flashovers in and around the equipment."
"In the analysis of distribution lightning problems, many factors must be considered, and long-time experience is necessary to permit reliable conclusions. Philadelphia Electric Company studies indicate that service interruptions due to primary distribution system trouble are in a large part due to lightning. Primary system trouble is found to cause far more customer interruptions than secondary system trouble."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Equivalent circuits have been found valuable in the solution of certain problems in that they simplify the analysis. Furthermore, equivalent circuits provide a means of replacing magnetic coupling with simple impedance links thereby permitting the use of the calculating board for solution. In Part I of this paper, the general equivalent mesh for the n-winding transformer is derived, and other less rigorous transformer circuits are discussed and compared. In Part II the mesh equivalent for the general network having (m + l) points of entry is derived and its application is explained. The generalizations of Parts I and II provide a background for the particular problem treated in Part III in which the study of system networks involving groups of parallel transmission lines is considered. The usually difficult problem of accurately determining ground fault currents in such a system is readily solved by applying the special equivalent circuits developed in Part III to a calculating board set-up of the system. These circuits are particularly valuable in the solution of any problem involving an analysis of the zero phase impedance diagram of a system. The methods and circuits developed in this paper are perfectly general and have many evident applications other than those treated."
"The paper is a mathematical study of the oscillations occurring in a pair of mutually coupled windings-the primary and secondary of a transformer-when one of the terminals is subjected to the impact of a traveling wave. Solutions for grounded and open terminal conditions are obtained, but the general solution for any impedances at the terminals is not attempted, except for the initial distribution."
"If all the electrical properties are abstracted from a given electrical network, there remains a geometrical circuit, completely characterized by the sets of branches terminating at the various vertexes. In this paper, enumerations of geometrical circuits are given, classified according to two different parameters, the nullity (number of branches minus number of vertexes plus number of separate parts) and the rank (number of vertexes minus number of separate parts). There is also a partial list of geometrical circuits which are symmetrical with respect to all the branches and all the vertexes."
"It has been shown in previous publications that calculations of the performance of a synchronous machine may be simplified by the use of two scalar impedance operators which apply separately to the component of armature current which magnetizes in the axis of the poles, and to the component which magnetizes in the axis of the interpolar space. The present paper describes a method of combining these two scalar operators into a single vector operator which applies directly to the total current. With the new operator it becomes possible to write out the complete equations which apply to various numbers of interconnected machines, under various operating conditions, as readily as would be possible if each machine was replaced by a fixed source of voltage operating through a constant value of impedance. The effect is to simplify and thus to extend the scope of synchronous machine analysis. It is believed that the theory developed will be of value to engineers who are working on problems such as stability, hunting, and other problems of this general character which involve detailed analysis of the operation of two or more interconnected synchronous machines under transient conditions."
"There is a definite trend toward the use of all electrically driven auxiliaries for steam power stations. This paper reviews the reasons for this trend, summarizes the advantages of electric drive and discusses in a general way some of the economic factors in the selection of an auxiliary system. A companion paper covers steam-driven auxiliaries."
"For circuit breaker and relay application, it is frequently necessary to determine the decrement in power system short-circuit currents. For this purpose certain ``standard decrement curves'' approved by the National Electrical Manufacturers Association have been in general use. The original curves appeared in 1918 and a revised set was prepared in 1923. New decrement curves given in the present paper supersede those formerly in use. The paper also includes a discussion of the need for new curves, the underlying assumptions upon which they are based, the method of application and their limitations."
"This paper presents general stability curves by means of which the transient stability during faults may be determined for any metropolitan type system. The results are obtained as the permissible fault duration in terms of certain indexes of the system and fault. These indexes may be found from a short-circuit study of the particular fault made on a d-c. calculating board or its equivalent. For a given fault only three readings are required to obtain the result."
"This paper gives a brief description of the Philadelphia Electric Company System with particular reference to the features influencing stability of the Conowingo Hydroelectric station, summarizes the various calculations and tests associated with the stability problem, and presents the record of operating experience from a stability standpoint during four years of service. Several cases of instability due to line faults have occurred. A thorough study was made of the matter, and as a consequence, changes were made in the equipment and system set-up involving the development and installation of higher speed circuit breakers and relays. Detailed records are given for all faults on the parts of the system which are intimately associated with the Conowingo development. These records show the improvement of stability obtained by the changes in the system and indicate attainment of a generally satisfactory condition."
"Extended laboratory tests reveal that the corona formation voltage and the initial radio interference voltage of clean, dry insulators are identical. Oscillograms show many interesting characteristics of insulator corona current and of the radio interference caused by it. Means for reducing the interference are suggested."
"From the charge and discharge currents of any type of dielectric under continuous potential it is possible to predict accurately the loss, power factor and capacity at 60 cycles. This is done by an empirical determination of the equation for the relaxation function of the dielectric at a given temperature, followed by the application of von Schweidler's method. The method developed is available at any frequency, provided that the continuous potential charge and discharge currents may be measured over initial time intervals comparable with the alternating period. It is shown that agreement of the relaxation function with the t-nexpression is not general, but on the contrary, it is confined to dielectrics showing negligible or no irreversible conduction. The inadequacy of the t-n expression is proved on experimental and analytical reasons. Chief among them is the failure of the t-n expression to predict accurately the variation of dielectric loss with frequency. A convenient and sufficient expression for the relaxation function is shown to be a sum of three exponentials. Further, experiment and analysis prove that the method of three exponentials predicts accurately the a-c. behavior of a dielectric at 60 cycles. The usual forms of irreversible conduction encountered are defined and classified. The case where the initial constant current does not obey Ohm's law has been considered analytically in its contribution to the a-c. behavior. The manner in which the complete a-c. behavior of a dielectric is accurately predicted from suitable d-c."
"Previous tests on the breakdown of glass with direct potentials indicated the existence of three different regions of breakdown. The present paper describes similar tests on alternating potentials. The following conclusions are reached: 1. Three distinct regions of breakdown are obtained on alternating current as well as on direct current. 2. In the disruptive and intermediate regions, breakdown occurs at an alternating peak voltage approximately equal to the direct breakdown voltage. 3. In the thermal region, breakdown occurs at an alternating peak voltage somewhat lower than the direct breakdown voltage."
"A wound rotor induction motor may be operated with the stator and the rotor independently magnetized, (neither supply frequency corresponding to the slip frequency). If the stator and rotor are paralleled the pull-out torque as a motor is approximately doubled and the continuous horsepower output may be increased, and as an induction generator, the maximum kva. output is increased. It may be operated simultaneously as a motor and as a generator. This method of operation was new to the authors and to several eminent induction motor designers and as no reference has been found to others employing this principle, the theory has been developed and is presented with the experimental results of tests."
"As the application of synchronous motors is extended to include more specialized fields, the design of damper windings for special starting performance becomes more of an exact art. Methods have been presented before the Institute by which the starting performance can be determined with good accuracy. The purpose of this paper is to present certain possibilities and limitations of the performance which may be obtained by variation of the damper winding design. For purposes of consideration, damper windings are arbitrarily classified as low reactance and high reactance types. It is pointed out that low reactance damper windings are well suited to give a high ratio of torque to kva., especially during the initial part of the starting period. Many other types of performance, including a fairly uniform torque over the starting period or, a low starting torque with high pull-in torque-all with a relatively low kva. can be obtained with high reactance windings."
"Electrolytic condensers of the film-forming type have some interesting characteristics which have never been satisfactorily explained. Extremely thin oxide or hydroxide films formed on the surface of the metal anodes seem insufficient in themselves to explain the complete action. Likewise, an electromotive equilibrium is insufficient to explain the action. A résumé of former research reveals a great deal of information of large practical value in building electrolytic condensers but little of value from a theoretical standpoint. Reviewing the prominent papers, it appears that aluminum has been the chief subject of discussion for condenser anodes. Such anodes show small leakage currents in selected electrolytes at low temperatures. Increasing voltage, temperature, or electrolyte concentration cause increases in leakage; the addition of impurities also has a deleterious effect. The oxide-gas theory of rectification as applied to electrolytic condensers by Guntherschulze predicts changes in capacity for variations in pressure. Experiments do not substantiate the presence of gas. The oxide layer alone is unable to fulfil the necessary conditions found. Electrolytic condensers with extremely low applied voltages show large variations in measured capacity from high-voltage measurements. The results indicate a film in which ion penetration plays a large part. The presence of a film saturated with water as the dielectric overcomes a number of former obstacles, and lessens the necessity for the very thin films formerly assumed, due to the high dielectric constant of water."
"Electrolytic condensers on a-c. circuits have higher power losses than would be expected from the leakage currents and electrolyte resistances. Likewise, losses change with the applied voltage, with temperature of the cell, with the frequency of the applied voltage, and with external circuit conditions governing current wave shape in such ways that it is almost impossible to predict results in advance. The current wave usually contains large harmonics when a sine wave of voltage is impressed, indicating a non-linear function in the impedance of electrolytic condensers. Increases in voltage, frequency, electrolyte temperature, and concentration of the electrolyte cause increases in the harmonics in the current wave. Dielectric losses in an oxide film or a gas-oxide film are too low to account for the total losses in electrolytic condensers; and in general the losses in a polarization cell are higher than those found in electrolytic condensers. Polarized cells show some characteristics which are similar to the peculiarities of electrolytic condensers; a number of low-voltage condensers very closely approach the action of polarization cells. Electrolyte potentials of symmetrical condensers on a-c. circuits are lower than the theoretical values. These discrepancies can be accounted for only by a voltage distribution in the electrolyte. Controlling the potential from outside sources has small influence on power losses except for extreme values of potential. An equivalent circuit can be drawn for a condenser from the losses, the applied voltage, and the electrolyte potential."
"This paper contains an analysis which shows how the equalizing currents in the armature coils of a d-c. machine act to correct the unbalance causing these currents to flow. It is shown that even with very small inequalities of main pole air gaps (plus or minus 7 per cent of an average main pole gap), the equalizing current in an armature coil may reach, several times each revolution of the armature, a peak value as high as 25 per cent of the full load coil current value. The analysis is unique in that it is based upon experimentally determined curves of equalizing current variation in an actual machine."
"Pulsations in the air-gap induction due to the slotted stator construction produce pole-face loss. When a damper winding is present the pulsations link the damper bars producing circulating currents causing an additional loss, which is designated by the term ``no-load damper winding loss.'' The magnitude of this loss is found to vary from practically zero to as much as eight times the pole-face loss, or to as much as half of the total no-load core loss. A method of calculating the no-load damper loss is developed based on theoretical considerations. As far as the writer is aware no theoretical work has been previously published on this subject."
"This paper describes and compares various types of double layer rotor winding connections for non-salient pole machines, with a particular application to sine-wave generators. Design coefficients are obtained by a mathematical analysis of the derived equations for the rotor m.m.f. Five specific types of connections, the V, Y, X, U, and W types, are discussed, as well as the general case. The new types advocated are seen to be superior to the old, giving a greater output for a given maximum temperature."
"Three-power locomotives capable of operating from an external distribution system or on internal power are in use by the New York Central and the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroads. In one case the supply voltage is 600 volts direct current and in the other 3,000 volts direct current. The authors discuss the characteristics of this new type of locomotive and its equipment, as well as the methods of calculating the capacity and characteristics required for the service. The coordination of the diesel engine, generator, battery, and motor equipment has been carefully worked out to insure successful operation of the complete unit."
"The calculation of temperature rise and of time-temperature curves of a railway motor for which only preliminary design data are available, usually presents considerable difficulty. Modern railway practise demands increasingly large power units in a limited space, so that accurate methods are necessary for the predetermination of temperature rise as a basis for guaranteed ratings and of time-temperature curves for the application of a motor to a complicated service cycle. For calculating the temperature rise of the armature in a new design of motor for any time interval and load condition, the author presents a method which is shown to give consistent results when applied to motors of widely varying size. A brief outline is given of the method by which the equations are derived from the usual theory of heat flow between related bodies. It is shown that by making certain assumptions the armature can be reduced to a simple equivalent model consisting of two conducting bodies separated by an insulating wall, and that the equations resulting from an analysis of this thermal system form a practical method of calculating time-temperature curves of an armature from preliminary design data. A detailed mathematical treatment is presented in an appendix. By substitution of existing test data into part of the formula it is shown how a curve can be obtained which renders the equations applicable to a very wide range of motor sizes."
"The reasons for adopting the sectional construction are given and discussed at some length. The new features of design and construction which make the sectional arrangement feasible are described. One arrangement of sections into a unit is described and alternative arrangements are discussed briefly. Performance characteristics are described in broad terms and the extent of the improvement over previous type is pointed out. A forecast of future development is indicated."
"The proper distribution of time information requires a continuity of accurate service. This the systems described aim to accomplish by the subdivision of the distribution into local areas each entirely independent of all others. The equipment in each area is capable of rendering an accurate time service to subscribers in that area for extended periods without assistance from other sources and by the nationwide dissemination of standard signals may be held to a negligible variation from true time. The equipment and operating methods are such that troubles occurring within the area will produce a minimum of interference with the accuracy of the distribution within that area and will be promptly indicated so that they may be remedied."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Three preceding papers of the same general title have dealt with transient voltage stresses developed within high-voltage transformer windings. The most important conclusions arrived at by the author and presented in these papers and the discussions are: 1. Transformers of all conventional constructions undergo oscillations when subjected to lightning or switching surges. 2. The amplitudes of these oscillations may be dangerously high, depending on the amplitude and the shape of the applied voltage. Their frequencies range from a few thousand to a few hundred thousand cycles per second.1,2 3. A lightning wave of a given shape produces very different stresses in different transformers.1,2 4. In practical design, neither amplitude nor frequency of these oscillations can be controlled by arrangement or proportions of windings.1,2 5. A lightning wave chopped by flashover of line insulation can produce stresses in transformer windings equal to or even in excess of those produced by a long wave of the same amplitude and front.1,2 6. Unless means are taken to obtain uniform distribution under all lightning conditions it is entirely possible to design transformers that will pass A.I.E.E. test which are inadequate for service conditions. This follows because test voltages in neither magnitude nor distribution of stresses correspond to that produced by transient voltages in transformers of ordinary construction. This difference is particularly great in transformers with solidly grounded neutrals, where the potential test allows the insulation from high-voltage winding to low-voltage winding and ground to be reduced as the neutral is approached.1,2 7."
"This paper describes methods of concentrating heating currents used for any industrial operation, such as welding, in predetermined strips of conducting plates, pipes, or other shapes. The method is to so place the shapes in close proximity to each other, or to auxiliary conductors, and to so interconnect the shapes with sources of alternating, or oscillatory, current of moderately high frequency that the heating current concentrates largely in adjacent strips in close proximity, in which the current flows in opposite directions in the two adjacent strips. Briefly stated, the method is to use an enhanced ``proximity effect'' to control the distribution of heating currents in bodies. The paper contains curves which have been worked out to illustrate the control of the distribution of the heating current densities by means of the proximity effect."
"This paper outlines the general plan which is being employed in the handling of intrastate toll traffic of the Wisconsin Telephone Company, including many of the transmission features involved and touching upon the relationship of the plan to that for handling countrywide toll connections. A brief discussion is included of the present and proposed toll cable network in Wisconsin."
"Due to the increasing use of large single-shaft steam turbine units, it has been necessary to design very large generators operating at 1,800 r.p.m. The present paper describes a 115,000-kw. unit recently placed in operation. The generator is wound for 18,000 volts and the whole output of the machine, with the exception of a small part used for the operation of auxiliaries, is stepped up to 182 kv. and all switching is done on the high-voltage side of the transformers. It was possible, therefore, to design the generator for a voltage that would permit a simple two-conductor per slot winding. On account of the great axial length of the machine, ventilation required careful study and a new scheme of rotor ventilation was developed to secure uniform cooling throughout the length of the long rotor body. The stator ventilation is of the inward-outward parallel flow type with fourteen parallel paths in each half of the stator. Air circulation is provided by four single inlet motor-driven blowers mounted under the generator. A fin type radiator cooler is mounted under the generator yoke and condensate is circulated through the cooler. Excitation is furnished from a 350-kw., 250-volt coupled, shunt-wound exciter and a 7½-kw. overhung pilot exciter is used to excite the fields of the main exciter."
"A new commutatorless motor with series characteristics has been developed and is briefly reviewed. The motor is particularly suitable for traction purposes and can be supplied from an overhead trolley at the usual a-c. electrification voltages and any commercial frequency. It is shown how it is possible, by the use of a grid-controlled rectifier, to eliminate not merely the commutator of the motor, but practically all of the expensive control, switching, and reversing equipment commonly used on a-c. and d-c. locomotives. Regenerative braking is also made inexpensive and practicable. The first part of the paper explains the general theory of the grid-controlled rectifier which is necessary for an understanding of the commutatorless motor. The data and layout of a 1,000-hp., 50-cycle, 15,000-volt, single-phase locomotive, now under construction, are given."
"The wide range of transients to which station apparatus is subjected is pointed out and the desirability shown for having adequate protection. The different breakdown characteristics of the various insulating members of a station are illustrated and the importance emphasized for considering this in choosing a voltage limiting device. The need is also shown for having protective gap discharges reduced to a minimum in order to limit the number of service interruptions. The characteristics and limitations of several forms of gaps are shown and discussed. A new form of limiting gap is described in which it is possible to change the sparkover characteristic over a considerable range to allow for the differences in time lag and polarity characteristics of station insulation. The advantage of using a limiting gap in multiple with a lightning arrester to provide maximum protection and reduce interruptions to a minimum is discussed."
"This paper presents a summary of data from extensive impulse and 60-cycle laboratory flashover tests upon suspension insulator strings relative to unit shell diameter and unit spacing. The insulating qualities and the economic advantages of the various sizes of units are discussed with due regard to the most recent lightning protection theories. Both steel tower and wood pole high-voltage transmission line insulation are given consideration from the electrotechnical and economic standpoint."
"The parallel type inverter is one of many forms which are undergoing development at the present time. It gives promise of becoming of considerable importance and therefore the principles of operation should be better and more widely known. The object of this paper is to make a qualitative analysis of the operation of this type under different conditions of loading, and to present the results largely in the form of complete sets of oscillograms for further study. Inverters of the types now being studied involve the use of hot-cathode mercury-vapor tubes called thyratrons. The characteristics of these tubes are given briefly and the data necessary for an understanding of their operation in these circuits are presented. The principle of operation of the inverter circuit is developed by means of simple diagrams and then the actual conditions throughout the circuit are studied by means of oscillograms showing the voltages and currents in all of the essential parts. It is shown that the method of operation may be considered in a different manner from that usually assumed in the development of the circuit, inasmuch as the capacitor can be thought of as performing the function of giving the correct phase relation between the input current and the induced transformer primary voltage, rather than providing a sudden reversal of potential on the anode of the tube being stopped. This reversal is provided by the induced primary voltage. The current conditions for the various steps of operation are shown by simple diagrams."
"A system of electric and magnetic units may be shown to be characterized by five parameters, namely: a numeric, n, which gives the ratio between the density of electric displacement used in that system and the so-called theoretical density; a numeric, p, which gives the corresponding ratio for magnetic flux densities; a physical conversion factor, k, which converts a given volume of current into the corresponding magnetomotive force; the absolute permittivity, κ; and the absolute permeability, μ. On the basis of these five parameters, the principal fundamental equations of electricity, magnetism, and electromagnetic waves are written in what the author calls the general system of units, without assigning definite values to these parameters. He also shows that the five parameters must satisfy the equation vk = √np/κ√, where v is the velocity of propagation of electromagnetic waves in that particular medium to which κ and μ refer; otherwise the five parameters may be chosen arbitrarily. By giving these parameters specific values, seven different systems of units are derived, namely, the electrostatic, the electromagnetic, the practical, the Gauss system, the Heaviside-Lorentz system, one which the author calls the compromise system, and the ampere-ohm system introduced by him some twenty years ago. The characteristics, the advantages, and the disadvantages of each system are briefly discussed, and it is shown how to deduce a new system of units from the general system, to conform to certain desired specifications."
"The specification of a physical quantity must include numerical value and unit. The expression ``dimension'' is defined as the general unit of a quantity and it is shown that applied mathematics has to deal with physical quantities rather than pure numbers, so that each equation yields a relation between numerics and dimensions. It is possible to reduce all dimensions to a set of a few fundamental dimensions, called a ``dimension system.'' The application of this concept to the various fields of physics is shown, and it is proved that the so-called ``absolute'' dimension systems in electromagnetism are incorrect from this point of view and lead to inconsistent results. The proposal is made, therefore, to abolish the ``absolute'' dimension systems in electromagnetism and to introduce two new dimension systems as extensions of the two well-known mechanical systems by adding just one electric fundamental dimension. The new proposal retains all the familiar units but puts them on the sound basis of correct dimension systems, which, it is hoped, eliminates the unfortunate discrepancy in electromagnetism which has caused so much trouble ever since the ``absolute'' systems were introduced. The adoption of the new proposal, however, requires the cooperation of physical as well as electrical engineering societies, especially with regard to possible international action."
"Practical means for calculating the performance of both single-phase and polyphase induction motors from previously determined constants are developed in a straightforward manner. The methods are suitable for accurate calculations but can be simplified for approximate calculations. The methods given are complete and no auxiliary charts or sets of curves are required, nor need any diagram be constructed. The single-phase calculation method is based on the cross field theory presented by H. R. West. The polyphase calculation method is based on the equivalent circuit."
"The purpose of this paper is to present the results of experiments carried out to establish a practical method of measuring stray load loss in induction motors. The nature of stray load losses is discussed, methods of measuring these losses are described, and proposals for the revision of the Institute Standards to include stray load losses are made."
"A method of predetermining the torque-angle characteristic of a synchronous machine following a system disturbance is of importance in calculating the transient stability limit and in evaluating the effect on this limit of additional rotor circuits or of a change in excitation. In the first part of this paper equations are derived which are of sufficient generality to evaluate such factors. Two types of system disturbances are considered: 1. Switching in or out of a connecting line, 2. Occurrence of a balanced three-phase system fault. In the second part, an actual case of switching out a connecting line is calculated and the results compared with field tests taken on the New York Power and Light Corporation's system. No attempt has been made to draw any general conclusions as to the effect of amortisseurs or changes in excitation. A subsequent paper will present results which have been obtained from the application of the method presented in this paper."
"Practical system tests of the damping action of generators with and without low resistance damper windings, but otherwise identical, have been made. The effects of normal variations of generator field circuit resistance, field current, and loading, were investigated. Data for checking calculated machine constants also were obtained. The tests results are valuable from a quantitative, as well as from a qualitative standpoint."
"The large number of automobiles in use today has introduced new problems in the control of vehicular traffic. Timing devices with increased flexibility are required so that signals can be operated more nearly in accordance with varying conditions of traffic flow. A recently developed timing device, containing new features and having increased flexibility, offers a solution of the problems involved. The timer is described and its advantageous features are discussed."
"When two overhead conductors a few inches apart are used for each phase of a transmission line circuit, instead of one larger conductor, the reactance is reduced-20 per cent or more. Where voltage drop determines the maximum power load, as it does in many cases, reduced reactance is advantageous and increases the allowable power rating. Current-carrying capacity and corona voltage are increased. The advantages are to be balanced against the extra cost due to mechanical features, including hangers, increased cost of stringing and additional wind and ice load. Since increase in ice load is possibly the greatest disadvantage, the use of double conductors is of most interest for southern districts, where ice load is not encountered."
"During the past year the subject of power transmission by multiple-conductor circuits has received considerable attention. The formulas and estimating curves given in the paper may therefore be of interest at this time. Formulas are developed for the inductance and capacitance to neutral per phase and the approximate corona starting voltage of perfectly transposed, multiple-conductor, three-phase transmission lines having any number of conductors per phase. For certain special arrangements of the conductors, curves are given for the 60-cycle reactance, capacity susceptance, and corona starting voltage. These curves show the effect of variations, throughout their practical range, in conductor diameter, spacing between phases and between conductors of the same phase. Two, three, four and five conductors per phase are considered. A comparison is made of multiple- and single-conductor circuits with respect to charging current, voltage at no load, power which can be carried with the same voltage drop, and stability."
"The major purpose of this paper is to illustrate how accurately the physical assumptions made in applying conventional traveling wave theory are substantiated by test results. Analytical solutions for traveling waves at a transition point, as given in ``Traveling Waves on Transmission Systems,'' A.I.E.E. TRANS., 1931 (L. V. Bewley) are used in this analysis. These derivations involve the solution of circuits that may be used to represent equivalent terminal conditions of transmission systems, when simplifying assumptions are made, and when the free traveling wave can be expressed in exponential form. Discussion of types and specifications of such waves, attenuation and distortion, and the reflection and refraction operators, is limited to that essential for an understanding of the procedure. A method of calculating successive reflections on a short line, and a step-by-step solution involving a variable parameter at a transition point are included."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"During the development of industry, engineering and industrial management have evolved together. Certain phases of management, as the writer views it, have actually been a part of engineering; others have not. The direct administration of technical engineering activities is engineering, in the same sense that the administration of personnel and procedure in a legal matter is law. However, we should not become confused; the further movement of engineers from such technical management to general management has not made the latter become engineering, any more than the movement of numerous lawyers also into general management has made it become law. It is still general management. Engineering and managements are thus closely related, but all management is not engineering. Looking to the past, the facts are that something over a quarter of engineering graduates have gone into general management; a quarter have remained in technical management, which is engineering; a quarter, in purely technical activity; and the rest in sales, consulting, teaching, etc. Those who have gone into general management have received the greatest financial reward; those who have remained in purely technical activity, the least. Looking to the future, it appears that, on account of the rapidly increasing complexity on all sides, even more capable leadership, both technical and managerial, must be provided for the future. It seems clear also that the forces which have moved engineers in such large numbers into positions of executive responsibility-both technical and general-will continue in the future."
"This paper discusses the practises in use on the Philadelphia Electric Company system in attaining the maximum system economy consistent with high degree of service reliability. The system comprises not only steam electric stations of different efficiencies, but also a large hydroelectric plant and a major high-voltage interconnection with two large neighboring utilities, so that problems of operating economy are both highly important and complex in character. The paper also directs attention to problems of investment economy with a view toward securing the best balance of fixed charges, operating costs, and service reliability."
"The paper outlines the load characteristics, generating stations, and transmission lines of the Chicago territory and particularly the power supply of Chicago proper. The economics of the scheme of supply are discussed from the points of view of interchange energy agreements, comparative increment fuel costs of generating stations, increment losses of transmission lines, load schedules, remote metering and load dispatching, economics of 550-to 650-lb. units, automatic frequency regulation, control of wattless mva. voltage and phase angle. The reliability of the system is outlined with respect to the design of generators, switchgear, transmission lines and cables, relay protection, methods of operating, and reserve capacity. From the experience gained in the Chicago territory conclusions are drawn as to the policies of economy and reliability which have been adopted in operating the system."
"The special nature of the low-voltage circuit to electric furnaces is emphasized. The conductors employed vary in arrangement and cross section, and are relatively short. The very large currents carried give rise to reactive drops of greater magnitude than is usually supposed. For these reasons a detailed study of the inductance of such circuits is desirable. Fundamental theorems for deriving geometrical mean distances are first stated, leading to the well-known formulas for self-and mutual-inductance of circular and rectangular sections. Practical applications of these formulas to the problem of calculating the approximate reactive drop in three-phase arc furnace circuits are worked up in great detail. The same calculations can be used to determine the approximate operating power factor of the furnace. Unequal current distribution in multiple conductors, due to proximity and skin effects is discussed."
"The fundamental relations between voltage and current for an iron core reactor are reviewed. The theory of the performance of such reactors in series and parallel resonance circuits may be qualitatively obtained by graphical means. For reactors which have nearly linear properties the graphical method is capable of yielding quantitatively accurate results. A fundamental analogy exists for the properties of series and parallel resonance circuits employing the same inductance and capacitance elements. It is shown that; (a) for the series circuit the current is functionally related to the voltage in the same manner as, for the parallel circuit, the voltage is related to the current, if (b) for the inductance element the current is functionally related to the voltage in the same manner as, for the capacitance element, the voltage is related to the current. It is stated that in the series or parallel circuit, means are available for causing the current, as the dependent quantity, to vary as a function of voltage, as the independent quantity, or vice versa. Because of this generalization, the series circuit which is sensitive to voltage changes can also be caused to function as a constant-voltage source, insensitive to current changes. Similarly the parallel circuit, which is sensitive to current changes, can be used as a constant-current source, independent of voltage changes. The voltage sensitivity of the series circuit and the current sensitivity of the parallel circuit are applied to the problem of voltage and current relays."
"In this study of insulation coordination of distribution transformers, the operating conditions are reviewed and the requirements of transformers to be operated without protection are outlined. Test results on transformers designed to meet these requirements are given, showing that by the use of shields for the high-voltage windings and thyrite resistors for the low-voltage windings, transformers can be made in which the internal insulation will be protected by flashover of the bushings. The level of insulation chosen and the amount of system protection desired by the use of lightning arresters will determine the economic value of such transformers."
"The requirements and limitations of surge generators for transformer testing can be summed up as follows: The voltage that can be obtained is, in the first place, largely determined by the capacity of the surge generator when the capacity of the transformer is great. If a wave is desired without superimposed oscillations, it is necessary to insert resistance within the generator. The front of the surge then depends upon the inductance of the generator and the capacity of the transformer. This is a matter inherent to all surge generator test circuits. Thus, in general, waves of very steep front cannot be obtained with large transformers. Further, the inserted resistance also limits the voltage by an amount dependent on the proportion of this resistance to the load resistance. For transformers of low inductance, the length of the wave obtained is largely determined by the capacity of the surge generator. This results in a requirement of large generator capacity if very long waves are to be produced. If the lead between the transformer and generator is appreciably long, other oscillations will be set up which are highly damped but are appreciable at the generator end. These oscillations occur on the front of the wave only, and will be prominent when measurements are taken at the surge generator."
"The influence of saturation phenomena in series reactors on the circuit performance of load ratio control equipment is discussed. It is shown that unless care is exercised in the design of these reactors, gross distortion may be introduced into the circuit, resulting in obtaining across the reactor voltage peaks which on the one hand may endanger the insulation, and on the other hand greatly increase the rupturing duty on the circuit breaking devices. Formulas are developed which show what proportion of line voltage is absorbed by a series reactor subject to magnetic saturation. It is shown that this voltage can be expressed in terms of the reactive constants of which the circuit is composed, and that it is independent of the current or voltage wave form. Numerical solutions are given in the shape of curves, assuming that the magnetic circuit of the reactor is made up of typical transformer steel. The great influence of a small air gap in the magnetic circuit in reducing these voltages is shown."
"This paper extends the analysis of synchronous machines previously published by Doherty and Nickle to include the calculation of torque due to single-phase short circuit. The torque is expressed as the sum of odd and even harmonic series which are simply related to those previously derived for the armature current. The effect of amortisseur windings is also taken into account. As an illustration of the application of the equations, the short-circuit torque is calculated for a 100,000-kva. generator. The mathematical analysis is given in Appendixes as follows: A. Short-circuit armature current. B. Short-circuit torque. C. Decrement factors. D. Single-phase and three-phase reactances."
"This paper reports the results of an investigation of the effects of altitude, frequency and distance upon the strength of a received radio signal as transmitted from an airplane in flight and received at a point on the earth's surface. Frequencies between 475 kc. and 5,500 kc. are reported on for altitudes up to 6,000 feet and distances up to 60 miles. Representative curves, plotted between the above mentioned variables, are included and the difference in results obtained during daylight and darkness are shown. In general, the data show that, within the limits of this investigation, the higher the frequency the shorter the reliable communication range becomes. An appendix is included in which is shown how the data for a given altitude, distance and frequency may be used to calculate the theoretical field strength for the given frequency when the transmitter (or airplane) is at a different distance and/or altitude."
"Vertically cut disk sound records possess important advantages over laterally cut records. In their use the recorder and reproducer have been greatly improved. ``Cathode sputtering'' has replaced graphiting of the wax and a non-abrasive final record has replaced the abrasive record of the past. The improvements which result are: Noise has been reduced 25 to 30 db. Volume range has been increased from about 25 or 30 db. to about 50 or 60 db. Upper frequency cut-off has been extended nearly an octave (to about 9,000 cycles). The playing time for a 12-inch record may be increased from about 4 minutes to at least 15 minutes. The life of the record has been tremendously increased. A more faithful reproduction has been obtained as a result of flatter frequency characteristics and less non-linear distortion so that sounds are more distinct, life-like, and clean cut. The results demonstrated are enhanced by the use of better microphones and better and, particularly, much more powerful amplifiers and loud speakers than have usually been used before or are now used commercially."
"Recognition of the part played by gas blasts in interrupting arcs in oil circuit breakers and expulsion fuses has opened new avenues for improvements in these devices. The present paper deals with a new type of fuse in which greatly improved performance is obtained by more effective use of the self-generated gas blast. In this fuse a form of construction is used which permits the interruption of the smaller ranges of current within a device that is capable of interrupting also heavy short circuits up to 20,000 amperes or more. A special feature of this design is that the lower ranges of current are automatically transferred to, and interrupted in, a small auxiliary fuse bore. While the construction may be used to advantage with any gas generating material, the present design embodies a compressed boric acid liner which has been found to be much more effective than fiber in extinguishing arcs. Since boric acid evolves water vapor, a condensible gas, it becomes possible to construct a totally enclosed fuse in which the gas blast is discharged into a surface condenser. With such construction, currents of from 5 to 20,000 amperes at 13,000 volts have been interrupted with an electrode separation of less than six inches, using a relatively small condenser. Currents of more than 20,000 amperes have been interrupted by similar fuses of open type. This type of fuse may readily be designed for various current and voltage ratings."
"This paper deals exclusively with the phenomenon ``vibration.'' No reference is made to the allied phenomenon ``dancing.'' The purpose of the paper is to stimulate further research in an endeavor to provide a fundamental preventive of vibration and the resulting fatigue. Economic features such as reducing tensions and spans, are not treated. Published information is referred to and the need of attacking the fundamentals causing vibration is investigated and demonstrated. Experiments using water as a medium on some special cable sections are described in detail. The paper shows that certain peculiar but not altogether impractical sections minimize the tendency of vibration and the resulting fatigue. The ideas underlying the design of these sections are discussed and conclusions drawn. Practical objections to these proposed cable sections are included. Further research is indicated."
"With sleet, a temperature just below the freezing point, and with a heavy wind blowing transversely across a transmission line, vibrations of amplitudes up to 20 feet have been observed An explanation of this phenomenon is given."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Extended laboratory tests reveal that the corona formation voltage and the initial radio interference voltage of clean, dry insulators are identical. Oscillograms show many interesting characteristics of insulator corona current and of the radio interference caused by it. Means for reducing the interference are suggested."
"Locomotives for operation from either an external distribution system or an internal power source are especially well adapted to service over portions of road which for economic reasons cannot be completely electrified. Some of the more important engineering features of this type locomotive are outlined in this article."
"Marked economies may be secured by standardizing industrial products to eliminate all unnecessary sizes and ratings. Based upon a system of “preferred numbers” selection of desirable sizes may be made with reasonable accuracy through the use of algebra and geometry supplemented by judgment and common sense."
"During the past few years important changes effected in power station and system design have reduced operating expenses materially. At present, however, station designers are giving more attention to the reducing of investment costs. This reduction of plant investment quite naturally affects the plant auxiliaries as well as other station equipment. Many large stations built recently have practically all of the essential as well as the non-essential auxiliaries driven by electricity; but in other recent stations steam driven auxiliaries have been used quite extensively. In the light of present conditions and past operating experience, therefore, the A.I.E.E. power generation committee felt that a review of the characteristics and merits of both steam and electric drives would be in order. Accordingly, this committee has sponsored three papers to be presented at the Institute's forthcoming winter convention, and upon these papers the following three articles are based."
"A WELL DESERVED reputation for continuity of service is enjoyed by the electric service industry as a whole. The public has become accustomed to receiving continuous service; furthermore, the large investments of the power station companies and of their industrial customers demand an uninterrupted supply of energy. One of the most important factors vitally affecting continuity of power service is the reliability of generating station auxiliary equipment. Reliability therefore well deserves all the careful attention that has been devoted to it in these articles."
"RELIABILITY may be set down as the most outstanding requirement of electric power station auxiliaries since, among other things, an uninterrupted supply of power depends upon the ability of the essential auxiliaries to function continuously. Thus any arrangements made for guaranteeing the operation of these auxiliaries should be appropriate to the degree of service reliability expected from the station. These arrangements for station auxiliaries involve the furnishing of a reliable supply of energy as well as turbines, motors, and accessory equipment which are free from physical defects and which possess suitable operating characteristics. Considerations secondary to this first requirement of reliability are simplicity, initial cost, maintenance expense, and economy of power."
"A REVIEW of the history of auxiliaries for steam power stations shows a gradual change from complete steam drive to the other extreme of complete electric drive, except for a few reserve steam driven auxiliaries such as boiler feed pumps and service pumps. During an intermediate period, dual steam and electric drive was used quite extensively for some of the essential auxiliaries, but the number of dual drives appears to be diminishing steadily."
"With sympathetic attention and the direction of modern scientific methods toward achieving a solution of existing problems in human relationships, an ideal civilization is foreseen. This is the sixth article in The Engineering Foundation's symposium “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?”"
"SUPPLEMENTING the annual report of the chairman of the committee on electrical insulation, division of engineering and industrial research, National Research Council, which appeared under the title “The Trend in Dielectric Research” on p. 967–70 of the December 1931 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, a résumé of technical and scientific papers presented at that committee's fourth annual meeting and conference held recently at Harvard University is presented in the four articles which follow. Each article is based upon the papers presented at one of the four technical sessions of the conference, each session dealing with one particular phase of insulation research."
"INSULATING MATERIALS of the type at present being used in electrical design are difficult to interpret from the standpoint of fundamental characteristics and behavior, not only because of their underlying complexities, but also to a large degree because of their lack of purity. As yet satisfactory methods for gaging the chemical purity of such materials have not been developed despite the fact that their electrical properties, depend principally upon the presence or absence of electrolytic impurities. Insulation tests in use generally are electrical in nature; nevertheless their exact relationship to the impurities and chemical behavior of the insulation under test is largely a matter of speculation, and based but little upon experimentally determined facts."
"PROCEEDINGS of the second session of the insulation conference held recently at Harvard University (see footnote) are reviewed here. Like the preceding session under the guidance of the subcommittee on chemistry, this general session was featured by a distinct scientific atmosphere. Several papers were presented dealing with the electrical properties of important types of simple and complex dielectric materials as related to their availability as insulators."
"IN THE session of the Harvard University insulation conference (see footnote) held under the auspices of the subcommittee on physics, a series of five papers bearing on present physical theories of dielectric behavior was presented. In the first of these, W. F. G. Swann drew a series of analogies amongst the accepted mathematical developments of the theories of steady currents in conducting media, electric induction in non-conducting media, and magnetic conduction in magnetic media. Formal expressions for the fundamental phenomena in these three fields are known to be quite similar. It was shown, however, that there are certain aspects imposed by the restriction to constancy of specific resistance, constancy of permeability, and similar factors, and also by the nature of the mathematical solutions, which raise some question as to the complete accuracy of many accepted relationships. Notably, it is shown that in the general case of simultaneous electric and magnetic fields, it is possible to have at a surface of separation between two media, physical conditions which are not consistent with the usual assumptions made in this case."
"THE FINAL SESSION of the insulation conference held recently at Harvard University (see footnote) was devoted more to the practical engineering application of dielectric materials. Ten papers were presented, all of which are reviewed briefly."
"Modern electrical machines employ flux densities in excess of those previously measurable by routine methods. The refined method now available for densities up to 20,000 gausses therefore is recommended for adoption as standard."
"ARC WELDED steel framing for dwelling houses is representative of some of the recent experiments in modern building construction. Many advantages are claimed for the welded type of construction, among them being: rapidity and noiselessness of construction, flexibility of design, rigidity and solidity, low rate of depreciation, and a lower insurance rate resulting from the fireproof construction which this method makes possible. What is more important is the fact that all of these advantages may be realized without any appreciable increase in cost oyer older methods of construction."
"INTERPRETIVE abstracts of the majority of papers to be presented at the A.I.E.E. winter convention (January 25–29, 1932) are presented herewith, excepting only those papers published in this issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING and those not available for publication at the closing date of this issue. Abstracts of the remainder of winter convention papers are scheduled for publication in the February issue. Members vitally interested and wishing to obtain immediately pamphlet copies of any available papers are requested to use the order form appearing on p. 70 of this issue. In response to popular demand and within its space limitations ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING subsequently may publish certain of these papers, or technical articles based upon them."
"THE TWO general types of distance relays for isolation of faulty sections of transmission line are impedance relays, operating upon the impedance of the line between the relay and the fault, and reactance relays, operating upon reactance alone. Each of these types has certain advantages as well as certain disadvantages; it is the purpose of this new relay to combine the principal advantages of both types."
"DIRECT experimental proof of the oil blast theory of arc interruption has been assembled. A circuit breaker has been constructed having oil driven between its electrodes at a measurable velocity, and tests show that a correlation exists between the rate of recovery voltage rise and oil velocity. This correlation corresponds to an oil dielectric strength of 55 kv. per 1/10 in. of oil. To determine whether or not this correlation is accidental, relations between voltage and oil velocity and between current and oil velocity have been studied, but correlation does not appear. Impulse tests also have been made on clean and carbonized oils."
"DEVELOPMENTS in theory, calculation, and test results of circuit interruption by means of the oil blast, have placed new tools in the hands of designers, enabling them to construct apparatus of greater efficiency and consistency of performance than heretofore possible. Various applications of these new methods have been made to circuit breakers of all classes and voltages. Circuit breakers equipped with the oil blast device show consistently short arc lengths and unusually short periods of arc duration, even at high rates of recovery voltage rise and over wide ranges of current. The result of this is that contact burning and oil deterioration are minimized and maintenance is greatly reduced. The rapid arc extinction characteristic of the oil blast design makes it admirably suited to breakers requiring high speed of operation."
"THE EXTINCTION of an a-c. arc by the deion grid method has been very successfully applied during the past two years to the design of an extensive line of arc rupturing devices for oil circuit breakers of all voltage classes. Refinements have been made in the theory of operation of deion grids and in the construction of several types. Field operation and special tests have given much information regarding these devices."
"IN CIRCUIT breakers employing arcs submerged in liquids such as oil, carbon tetrachloride, or water, the surrounding liquid surface serves both to restrict the are space and to furnish a gas blast by rapid decomposition under the influence of the high temperature arc. The fiber tube of the common expulsion fuse acts in a similar manner. In the liquid circuit breakers, various devices are available to increase the interaction between arc and liquid, thus aiding in arc extinction."
"PRECISION bridge measurements are now in use for measuring the dielectric properties of cables when the current through the dielectric can be conducted directly from the sheath to the measuring apparatus. As a rule, however, these methods cannot be applied to cable with sheaths in electrical contact with ground. There is one method in which bridge measurements are made of all system losses, with and without the test cable connected in the circuit; the difference gives presumably the power loss in the cable dielectric. This method does not give the cable electrical properties (power, power factor, and capacitance) directly, and special precaution must be taken in connecting the cable."
"AN A-C. BRIDGE of high precision has been developed for power factor measurements in an investigation of the properties of cable compounds and papers and of the characteristics of cables that occur after impregnation. The bridge, a modified form of the Schering bridge, possesses several novel features and advantages. The detecting instrument is a moving coil a-c. galvanometer with field excitation supplied from a phase shifting transformer permitting independent ratio and phase-angle balances. A shielded transformer electrostatically isolates the galvanometer from the bridge circuits. This bridge is completely shielded and guarded."
"SEVERAL types of capacitance bridge for the measurement of both capacitance and power factor of dielectric specimens are in use at the present time. Some of these make a direct comparison between the capacitance under test and a standard capacitance. For accurate power factor measurements upon dielectric specimens at low voltages and audio frequencies, however, a substitution method is generally preferred. Two substitution methods which may be referred to as the 1 direct” and the “parallel” are commonly employed. With each method, a small change in the phase angle of the arm of the bridge circuit in which the substitution is made occurs. The compensation for this change enters directly into the measurements, and the essential differences between bridges in common use is in the manner of making this adjustment."
"THE MOVING parts of electric indicating instruments may be light in construction and of low torque, thus requiring small energy input from the circuit being measured. When it is desired to record these measurements, however, the moving parts are usually heavier in weight and require higher torque thin the corresponding parts of indicating instruments."
"VARIOUS possible transformer connections and protective devices on standard 60-cycle overhead power and lighting distribution systems having 4,000-volt four-wire primaries and power and lighting secondary mains have been investigated over a period of years. Considerable information was furnished by an experimental line with an insulated artificial cloud charged to potentials up to 150 kv. by means of a surge generator."
"A COOPERATIVE field study with portable impulse generator and cathode ray oscillograph was made of the lightning protection of transformers connected to a 4.45-mile, 4,600-volt rural distribution circuit. The tests described were made with the pellet arrester."
"USUAL methods of connecting arresters for the protection of distribution transformers often are inadequate, resulting in flashover of bushings or windings due to lightning, even though the arrester in itself is capable of protecting the transformer with a large factor of safety. Such flashover may be attributed to the fact that surge current flowing to ground through the ground leads of the arrester gives rise to inductive drop and resistance drop which add to the arrester voltage."
"FOR A NUMBER of years accurate data regarding the causes of lightning failures on distribution lines in the Chicago district and the effect of various methods of reducing these troubles have been kept. For Chicago conditions it appears possible to reduce the total number of transformer troubles annually caused by lightning to less than one per thousand transformers installed, through the adoption of the suggestions below"
"A HISTORY is presented in this paper showing the results of lightning arrester protection for distribution transformers in New England, where the normal ground electrode resistance is much higher than in most other parts of this country."
"INVESTIGATIONS of lightning troubles have been conducted since 1921 on the distribution system of the Philadelphia Electric Company, to determine the magnitude and nature of trouble in various localities, the effectiveness of lightning arresters under field conditions, and methods for improving service continuity."
"EQUIVALENT circuits have been used from time to time in the solution of various magnetic and electrical problems. They have been found valuable in that they clarify the problem, simplify the analysis, and provide a means of replacing magnetic coupling with pure impedance links, thereby permitting the use of the calculating board for solution."
"IN THE PAST, the mathematical analysis of transient oscillations in transformer windings has been based upon a single winding having self and mutual inductances between its turns, capacitances along the stack and to ground, and, in one instance, resistances representing the losses. Such a circuit ignores the presence of secondary circuits, but strangely enough proves adequate to describe the internal high frequency transients of the winding under consideration, not only qualitatively but quantitatively as well. Cathode ray oscillograms, however, do show some difference in the characteristics of the oscillations, depending upon the terminal connections of the secondary circuit."
"IF ALL THE ELECTRICAL properties of a given electrical network are abstracted, there remains a geometric circuit completely characterized by the sets of branches terminating at the various vertexes. The use of such geometric circuits in place of the networks is desirable in the solution of a number of different problems. A successful application of this method requires to start with a complete enumeration of all distinct circuits classified according to certain specified properties."
"THE FAILURE of solid dielectrics does not take place by one mechanism of breakdown but by several, different laws governing each type of failure. For some time thermal breakdown has been established as one of the mechanisms of puncture, and in 1928 there was found a type of breakdown in which the potential gradient is independent of temperature and thickness. This latter was spoken of as in the disruptive region. In 1929 a third type of breakdown was found lying between the previous two, and was termed as in the intermediate region."
"CHARGE and discharge currents of any type of dielectric under continuous potential make it possible to predict accurately the loss, power factor, and capacity at 60 cycles. This is done by an empirical determination of the equation for the relaxation function of the dielectric at a given temperature, followed by the application of von Schweidler's method. The method developed is available at any frequency, provided the continuous potential charge and discharge currents may be measured over initial time intervals comparable with the alternating period."
"PUBLISHED in full in this issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, p. 3–9. Pamphlet copies not available."
"OPEN CIRCUIT remanence of magnet steels is the magnetic induction ab the magnetic equator of a permanent magne; with no external magnetizing or demagnetizing force. A new relationship has been found ecamecting the open circuit remanence of a permanent magnet witn the factors determining its value. By plotting the ratio of remanence to residual inducion as the ordinate, and using as the abscissa the ratio of the product magnet lengths times square root of coercive force to the product of equivalent diameter times the square root of residual induction, a curve is obtained which appear; to be general and valid for all kpids of magnet steel."
"ESSENTIALLY the full content of this paper is published in this issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, p. 20–1. Pamphlet copies not available."
"ESSENTIALLY the full content of this paper is published in this issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, p. 21–5. Pamphlet copies not available."
"ESSENTIALLY the full content of this paper is published in this issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, p. 25–8. Pamphlet copies not available."
"THE INSTITUTE'S subject committee on definitions has submitted its report on terminology for power system interconnection and stability studies. The report covers the five following general divisions: interconnection terms, stability terms, active power and reactive voltampere conventions, synchronous machine quantities, and response of excitation systems. In preparing its report the committee has reviewed technical literature and consulted representatives of members of various A.I E.E. committees."
"A BRIEF description of the Philadelphia Electric Company system with particular reference to the features influencing stability of the Conowingo hydroelectric station is given in this paper. It summarizes the various calculations and tests associated with the stability problem, and presents a record of operating experience from a stability standpoint during four years of service."
"STABILITY studies of metropolitan type systems may be profitable not because instability has been a serious operating problem, but because such studies often may permit more reliable or economical layouts to be utilized safely. A simplified method for determining the degree of stability of any layout of a metropolitan type system is presented in this paper."
"A LITTLE known method of operating induction motors is to parallel the rotor and stator windings. When this is done the pull-out torque as a motor is approximately doubled and the continuous horsepower output may be increased; as an induction generator, the maximum kva. output is increased. The machine may be operated simultaneously as a motor and as a generator. For heavy loads the efficiency is higher than that of the same motor operated with its sliprings short-circuited; and if the motor is to operate over a wide range, maximum efficiency may be secured by using a switching arrangement to short-circuit the rings at light load."
"EXTENSION of the application of synchronous motors to include more specialized fields requires that the design of damper windings for special starting performance become a more exact art. Possibilities and limitations in the performance which may be obtained by variation of the damper winding design are brought out by classification of the various types of these windings."
"ELECTROLYTIC condensers on a-c. circuits have higher power losses than would be expected from the leakage currents and electrolyte resistances. Likewise, losses change with the applied voltage, temperature of the cell, the frequency of the applied voltage, and with external circuit conditions governing current wave shape in such ways that it is almost impossible to predict results in advance. When a sine wave of voltage is impressed the current wave usually contains large harmonics, indicating a non-linear function in the impedance of electrolytic condensers. Increases in voltage, temperature, frequency, and concentration of the electrolyte also cause increases in the harmonics in the current wave."
"ELECTROLYTIC condensers of the film forming type have some interesting characteristics which have never been satisfactorily explained. Extremely thin oxide or hydroxide films, formed on the surface of the metal anodes, seem insufficient in themselves to explain the complete action. Likewise, an electromotive equilibrium is insufficient to explain the action."
"COTTRELL treaters have found many applications in various industries for the recovery or removal of smoke, dust, and fume particles from their containing gases. Precipitation efficiency, or percentage removal, depends upon a number of fundamental variables. A study made of these factors has placed the process on a more quantitative basis than formerly was possible."
"THE USUAL commutation theories deal with the reversal of the current in the commutating coil and with means for bringing about suet reversal either along a straight line or curve. The principal object in such studies is to accomplish commutation without excessive current densities under the brush. Frequently, however, it is impossible to realize this, and the phenomenon which results is essentially one of switching. With this new concept in mind, factors may be studied which previously have not been considered."
"WHEN THE PARALLEL type winding was first used on the armatures of large d-c. machines, it was almost impossible to obtain sufficiently good magnetic balance of the main field circuits to permit satisfactory operation. In 1896 the idea was conceived of automatically balancing the flux in the main poles by connecting together those points on the armature which normally should be of the same potential. These equalizing connections have proved themselves capable of taking care of considerable unbalance in the same field; in fact their performance has been so satisfactory that little study has been given to the details of this action."
"THE NON-UNIFORM nature of the air-gap due to the presence of alternate teeth and slots on the stator of synchronous machines results in a non-uniform distribution of flux density at the surface of the rotor. These pulsations in the airgap induction produce pole-face loss. When a damper winding is present the pulsations link the damper bars producing circulating currents causing an additional loss which is designated by the term 4 no-load damper winding loss. The magnitude of this loss is found to vary from practically zero to as much as eight times the pole-face loss, or to as much as half of the total no-load core loss. A method now has been developed for calculating the no-load damper loss, based on theoretical considerations."
"CERTAIN applications, particularly testing, require a sine wave of generator voltage under all load conditions, and the round-rotor type of sine wave generator consequently was developed. The stator is similar to that of a salient-pole machine but for the field a round punched rotor is used with a double layer winding distributed in evenly spaced slots."
"AN ARTICLE based upon this paper is contained in this issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, p. 9–13. Pamphlet copies not available."
"A NEW MULTIPLE unit car motor incorporating many novel features of design was developed for the electrification of the suburban service of the Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad, the first installation of multiple unit suburban service in this country employing a trolley potential of 3,000-volts direct current. The absence of trouble in commencing and maintaining service marks the whole electrification program."
"THE CALCULATION of temperature rise and of time-temperature curves of a railway motor for which only preliminary design data are available, usually presents considerable difficulty. Modern railway practise demands increasingly large power units in a limited space, so that accurate methods are necessary for the predetermination of temperature rise. This must be used as a basis for guaranteed ratings and time-temperature curves in the application of a motor to a complicated service cycle."
"APPROXIMATELY forty substations are involved in the extensive electrification program recently announced for the Pennsylvania Railroad between New York and Washington; eleven of these already are in operation. A definite program for testing these substations before they are placed in operation has been evolved, and this procedure has been combined into a single set of test instructions."
"ONE HUNDRED and one years ago the Naval Observatory was created. Since then it has had the determination and broadcasting of the nation's time. This is broadcast in mean solar time although kept in sidereal time. Measurement of time is based upon the earth's rotation and is very accurately observed and calculated. Observations are made by transit instruments with which the successive transits of predetermined stars are observed."
"THREE CLASSES of time service are distributed by the telegraph companies. The first of these, commonly known as “noon beats” comprises the transmission during a three-minute period ending at noon eastern standard time of a series of electrical impulses originating from the naval observatory at Washington, D. C. This service is used very largely for correcting local master clocks throughout the United States once each day. The second time service commonly known as “jewelers' beats” comprises a similar transmission throughout the day of a series of coded impulses distributed in each locality by a master clock. These beats are used principally by jewelers for regulating timepieces."
"PREVIOUS to 1916 no commercial a-c. system was regulated with sufficient accuracy of speed to enable its use for indicating time. Two devices then were developed making commercial a-c. time service possible. The first of these was a selfstarting synchronous motor which utilized residual magnetism to enable the rotor to start and run at synchronous speed. The second consisted of an indicating instrument which would show to a generating station operator, directly in terms of time, deviations of average frequency from standard."
"A NEW SUBMARINE cable was laid recently between Key West and Havana to furnish increased telephone facilities between the United States and Cuba. This is the longest deep sea telephone cable in existence and also is unique in being the longest telephone cable circuit without intermediate repeaters and without inductive loading. The new cable operates at frequencies up to about 28,000 cycles per second; it has a single central conductor with concentric tape return, and employs the newly developed material paragutta for insulation. Due to the smaller dielectric constant and to the smaller leakance, the cable is much smaller in size than any of the three other cables between these countries."
"A NUMBER of factors contribute to the difficulties involved in the design of a telephone handset which gives as good service performance as a deskstand. The handset transmitter for example not only is used in a wider range of positions but also is moved much more frequently, so that wider variations are experienced in its characteristics. The more severe use to which the handset is subjected requires special design measures to prevent an appreciable shortening of useful life."
"WHEN a number of lightly loaded telegraph circuits terminates at a central telegraph office, and the number of messages over each circuit is insufficient to keep the operator fully employed, these circuits usually are grouped together on a switchboard or “concentrator,” so that a single operator can send and receive messages over any line of the group."
"THE REQUIREMENTS for carrier systems in telegraph plants differ somewhat from those in telephone plants. Primarily these differences are due to the fact that telegraph plants are based upon the wide use of d-c. telegraph circuits which can be operated fairly successfully on a ground return basis. Furthermore, the operating energy levels of the various circuits on the same lead are not restricted by the presence of other types of communication circuits occupying a frequency transmission range other than that required for d-c. telegraph signals. Other equally important factors enter into the problem, and are outlined in this paper."
"A NUMBER of phenomena are present in overhead arc welding, for which no adequate explanation has been possible. Among the questions are: (1) what is the force that causes the molten drop to travel across the arc face from the electrode to the work, (2) why is it that the drop is detached with explosive violence rather than gradually? In an attempt to determine the electric origin of these forces in high current metallic arcs, the magnified image of an arc was projected on a screen by means of a lens. In this manner, relations between the electrical forces, arc currents, and arc lengths were studied."
"THE COST OF APPARATUS for arc welding with the a-c. arc is less than that for the d-c. arc. In spite of this the d-c. arc has been used much more extensively because: the open circuit voltage of the a-c. welder was about double that of the d-c. equipment with a consequent increased life hazard; the a-c. arc was much more difficult to strike and hold; and it also drew a low power factor current from the line."
"A DROOPING volt-ampere characteristic is required of an arc welding generator in order to overcome the instability of the arc due to its negative resistance characteristic. Where there are abrupt changes in the arc resistance, as in metallic arc welding, this requirement becomes complex and exacting. Other desirable design features are as follows: 1. Elimination of the external reactor sometimes used to smooth out current fluctuations. 2. Reflection of current impulses in the main circuit back i n t o the field to quicken field flux changes and thereby make the machine more responsive to changes in the external resistance. 3. Elimination of the exciter without resorting to the two-pole armature four-pole field structure. 4. Elimination of all regulating rheostats and switches without interfering with the desirable characteristics of the generator."
"EVERYTHING is in readiness for the 1932 A.I.E.E. winter convention which will be held with headquarters in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., January 25–29. An excellent schedule of events embracing fourteen technical sessions, a variety of inspection trips and social functions, and a special program for women guests has been completed."
"A COMPLETE official ticket of candidatefor the Institute offices that will become vacant August 1, 1932, was selected by the national nominating committee which met at Institute headquarters, New York, December 3,1931. This committee consists of fifteen members, one selected by the executive committee of each of the ten geographical districts, and the remaining five elected by the board of directors from its own membership."
"The practise of publicly soliciting bids from engineers and the responding to such invitations was condemned severely in the following resolution adopted some months ago by the American Society of Civil Engineers."
"The report of the United States national committee of the International Commission on Illumination for the year ending November 1931 has been submitted by the president, E. C. Crittenden (A, 19-M, 22). Representatives of the Institute on this permanent committee are: A. E. Kenneuy (A'88-F'13-Life Member and past-president); CO. Mailloux (A'84-F'12-Life Member and past-president); and C. H. Sharp (A'02-F, 12). Following are excerpts from this report."
"A MOST SUCCESSFUL meeting devoted to electricity in modern medicine was held by the New York Electrical Society, December 16, 1931, in the Engineering Auditorium, New York, N. Y. L.A. Coleman is president of this society and E.E. Dorting (A'13-M'22) is secretary. Dr. Howard Kelly, emeritus professor of gynecology at The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., presided at the meeting and gave a short history of the subject."
"Economics shared honors with engineering as a subject of major interest at the fifty-second annual meeting of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, held in New York, N. Y., November 30 to December 4, 1931. While the registration, approximately 2,000, fell somewhat behind that of last year, there was no falling off of interest and significance nor in the broad extent of the program. Statistics indicate that there were scheduled some 25 technical sessions, 72 committee meetings, with 80 technical papers and reports presented, in addition to 6 special lectures and numerous other activities of a social and professional nature."
"Extensive reservations for exhibit space in the electrical buildings of the 1933 World's Fair to be held in Chicago already have been contracted for by leading manufacturers of electrical equipment and supplies, producers of radios, and telephone and telegraph companies which provide the nation's principal communication facilities. The electrical group now is being erected on Northerly Island which adjoins the mainland at the fair site on Chicago's lake front; it is composed of three' units: the electrical building, the communication building, and the radio building. (See ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, V. 50, p. 762, Sept. 1931.)"
"Formal announcement has been made of the organization of the American Institute of Physics established by the American Physical Society, the Optical Society of America, the Acoustical Society of America, and the Society of Rheology. The new institute will serve the four societies mentioned, and through them, physics in general in matters of common interest, particularly in their relation to other societies and to the public. The board of management consists of Karl T. Compton, chairman, and G. B. Pegram, secretary. H. A. Barton is director, and J. T. Tate, advisor on publications."
"The annual index covering the contents of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for the twelve issues of the calendar year 1931 will be available for distribution after January 15, 1932. It is to be published in a form convenient for those wishing to file it for reference or to include it in bound volumes of the 1931 monthly issues. A notice of this index appeared in the advertising section of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for December 1931 and is repeated in this issue. An order form may be found on p. 992 of the December issue. The index will be printed in a quantity governed by the number of requests received prior to January 15, 1932."
"Mr. Berresford's article “Progress is the Way Out of Depression” in the December 1931 ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING is good promotion talk and has an excellent sales appeal in tending to make each human being think that he accomplishes more than the foremost leader. It may be exactly the kind of talk we should have at the present hour; I have been following his advice for the past year. Yet his primary thesis appears to be in conflict with many an article that I have read in the last ten or twenty years and also with my own observation."
"Dr. Edwin Wilbur Rice, Jr., has been awarded the A.I.E.E. Edison Medal for 1931 “for his contributions to the development of electrical systems and apparatus and his encouragement of scientific research in industry.” The Edison Medal was founded by associates and friends of Thomas A. Edison, and is awarded annually for “meritorious achievement in electrical science, electrical engineering, or the electrical arts” by a committee consisting of 24 Institute members."
"Recounts the life and professional achievements of Howard Rankin Sargent (engineer of the merchandise department of the General Electric Company, Bridgeport, Conn., died December 8, 1931), Joseph Walter Miles (died suddenly November 28, 1931), and William Isaac Donshea (died December 21, 1931)."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"AMONG the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, during November are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface or text of the book in question."
"Westinghouse and Italian Company to Exchange Patents. — According to F.A. Merrick, president of the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company, an agreement has been concluded with Ercole Marelli & Company of Milan, a leading Italian electrical manufacturing concern, for an exchange of patents and experience. The Westinghouse companies will not participate financially nor take any part in the management of the Italian company."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Essential characteristics and latest developments in power cables are reviewed briefly in this article. Consideration is given to the three principal insulation materials, to different types of cable, and to impregnating compounds. In addition to summarizing present power cable practise in this country, future trends are indicated."
"Although the time (actor in telephone transmission has been discussed in several technical papers, there seems to have been none giving a general over-all picture of the subject. Such a picture is presented briefly in this article."
"Although Cottrell smoke precipitators have found application in a variety of industries, theoretical features of the process and fundamental laws underlying it have not been subjected to very close scrutiny. Experiments described here were made to determine the effect upon “precipitation efficiency” of many of the variables entering into the process."
"During the first year of operation, four cases of instability developed at Conowingo hydroelectric station of the Philadelphia Electric Company when faults occurred on the transmission lines. Subsequent investigations showed that some of the generators would advance 180 deg. ahead of the system in less than 0.3 sec. when full load was dropped suddenly. Installation of higher speed relays and circuit breakers together with changes in the operating set-up, have corrected the situation."
"Equipment for the automatic control of combustion in modern steam plants is installed as much to achieve operating speed and simplicity as it is to effect operating economy. Fundamentals of typical systems are outlined here."
"DEFINITIONS of terms used in stability and interconnection studies have been developed by a special committee functioning since 1930. This subject committee was organized at that time under the auspices of the subcommittee on interconnection and stability factors of the committee on power transmission and distribution, to develop some definitions of terms used in stability studies. Later in the same year, a joint interconnection committee, with F.C. Hanker, as chairman, was formed with representatives from the committees on power generation, protective devices, and power transmission and distribution; and the work of the subject committee was continued under the direction of this subcommittee. Likewise, the scope of the definitions was increased to include terms used in interconnection as well as stability studies. The report of this work is submitted in five general divisions:"
"The engineer, having learned that action is best based upon the fullest and most accurate determination of facts possible, is said to be the type now needed by the world. This is the seventh article in The Engineering Foundation's symposium “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?”"
"This new machine needs no external reactor, but employs a special field winding to compensate for resistance fluctuations in the welding circuit; it is completely self-contained and is self-excited. Provision is made for obtaining fine adjustments of current by simply shifting the brushes."
"A corona tube may be used to regulate the output of a full-wave rectifier and therefore to control the excitation of a generator to give constant voltage. Performance curves for a five-kva. generator whose voltage is controlled by such a regulator indicate advantages over other types."
"A new recorder has been developed which employs for the measuring and recording operations separate elements coupled together by a combined optical and photoelectric system. Tests show that the new instrument is as accurate, sensitive, and responsive as a good indicating instrument."
"Experimental evidence is presented which tends to prove that electrons and not protons or positive ions are the active carriers in the spark kindling mechanism and that Lichtenberg figures form the initial step in the process."
"Operating tests on large turbine-generators indicate that following the accidental opening of the field switch of a loaded machine, service should be restored by closing this switch as soon as possible, without removing the generator from the bus."
"Extra insulation was obtained on this important link of the Union Electric Light and Power Company transmission system by the use of wood crossarms. By hinging the arms to the steel tower structures, arm and tower stresses were reduced materially; consequently tower weights and line costs were lowered accordingly. Details of these and other major features of this unusual line are given in this article."
"Starting with the logarithmic variation of voltage and current along a transmission line, a derivation of the propagation constant is given in this article, depending only upon the application of Kirchoff's laws and simple hyperbolic trigonometry."
"Scientific developments have improved natural foods and made possible their wide distribution. This is the eighth article in The Engineering Foundation's symposium “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?”"
"INTERPRETIVE abstracts of the majority of papers presented at the A.I.E.E. winter convention (January 25–29, 1932) or articles based upon them, were published in the January issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. Interpretive abstracts of all remaining papers are presented herewith. Members vitally interested and wishing to obtain immediately pamphlet copies of any available papers are requested to use the order form appearing on p. 148 of this issue. In response to popular demand and within its space limitations ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING subsequently may publish certain of these papers, or technical articles based upon them."
"ACCURACY of electrical measuring instruments depends as much on the quality of the control springs as on the design of the torque producing elements. However, judging from the work published on the subject, the design of high quality control springs has not received its proper share of attention."
"AS A RESULT of the new e ra of extensive interconnection of large power systems and of t he high speed operation of switches and circuit breakers, problems have arisen that only an oscillograph can solve; further an oscillograph for such applications must have characteristics that are not found in those designed for more general usage."
"Two FEATURES in connection with recently improved transformer construction are of special interest: First, without the use of shields to neutralize ground capacity, it has been possible to build shell type transformers in which the distribution of surge voltages is substantially uniform, and which are practically non-oscillating even for the longest surges; second, a major improvement in the impulse strength of t he insulation h as been made through the elimination of creepage surfaces from the entire insulation structure."
"The IMPACT of a surge on the high voltage terminals of a transformer produces transient voltages not only within that winding, but also within the low voltage winding and at its terminals. The latter voltage, discussed in this paper, is impressed on the network and apparatus connected to t he secondary winding. The possibility of the transmission of high transient voltages through transformers is indicated by occasional failures during lightning storms of rotating apparatus connected to lines through transformers."
"THE DETERMINATION of decrement in power system short-circuit currents frequently is necessary for circuit breaker and relay application. For this purpose certain standard decrement curves originally appearing in 1918 and revised in 1923, have been in general use. New decrement curves now have been derived to supersede the former ones, the new curves having been made desirable by the considerable progress in analysis of transients in synchronous machines, and to the use of symmetrical components for calculating unbalanced faults."
"CURVES presented in the companion paper “Standard Decrement Curves” are sufficiently accurate for most commercial work, particularly circuit breaker applications. Many special cases arise, however, for which these curves are not applicable. Of this character are relay applications on power systems involving several machines having different time constants and located unsymmetrically with respect to the fault. The individual branch currents in systems of this character may have widely different decrements and even may increase with time. Need, therefore, exists for a method of calculation which will take these individual variations into consideration. Such a method has been developed and has been termed the “internal voltage” method of calculation. It is particularly valuable in that it lends itself to the use of the calculating board and thus minimizes the labor involved."
"GENERAL curves showing the current decay during system short circuits are given in the companion paper “Standard Decrement Curves.” Inasmuch as arrangements of systems and characteristics of synchronous machinery vary considerably, a single set of general curves based upon certain assumptions as to system layouts, time constants, etc., will be only approximate, and in some cases considerably in error. It is desirable therefore to have available more accurate methods for obtaining decrement factors. It is the purpose of the present paper to describe the methods by which are obtained these more accurate decrement factors especially adaptable to specific arrangements."
"IN THE iron-cobalt series, an alloy, Fe2Co, having the highest known saturation intensity of magnetization was discovered. This led to the development of new and remarkable permanent magnet steels based on that allby. The better of these showed residual induction equal to, and coercive forces three to five times as great as, those of the better magnet steels previously available."
"THE IDEA of the sectional type mercury arc rectifier is based on the obvious, but heretofore apparently unrecognized, fact that the best inherent possibilities are realized only in the smaller sizes. Efficiency, reliability, economy, and flexibility are all far better in small units than in large."
"A TIMEKEEPER, whether terrestrial or celestial, may be considered as consisting essentially of a fixed dial and a moving pointer. A complete observation may be regarded as a comparison of the angles described by the pointers of two timekeepers between two signals."
"ULTRA-PRECISE practical timekeepers of today can be placed within two classes, depending upon whether the restoring force is gravity, as in pendulum clocks, or elasticity, as in quartz crystal oscillators. The second class is a development of the last decade and was made possible by the vacuum tube and associated electrical circuits. Intercomparisons between timekeepers of the two classes provide a most valuable means for t he study of changes in gravity and related phenomena."
"NOTWITHSTANDING the rapid progress that has been made in recent years in the application of automatic printers to landline operation, and the continued efforts to apply similar methods to the operation of long non-loaded submarine cables, the siphon recorder, which requires manual translation, still is used almost exclusively in the operation of such circuits. While the recently developed loaded type of submarine cable possesses characteristics which permit of its being operated with a modified form of landline multiplex printing system, the numerous attempts to develop and apply a satisfactory direct printing system to non-loaded cables have not met with complete success."
"PREVIOUS publications have shown that calculations of the performance of a synchronous machine may be simplified by the use of two scalar impedance operators which apply separately to t he component of armature current which magnetizes in the axis of t h e poles, and to the component which magnetizes in the axis of the interpolar space."
"COOPERATION of local educators, manufacturers' representatives, and public utility men has enabled a technical program covering a variety of interests to be arranged for the three-day meeting of the A.I.E.E. Great Lakes District, No. 5, which will be held at Milwaukee, Wis., March 14–16, 1932. Headquarters will be in The New Pfister Hotel. In addition to the technical program, Milwaukee and its environs with their well known industries should hold much of unusual interest for the visitor."
"Institute members and subscribers hereby are invited to discuss in these columns any of the articles appearing in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. Heretofore discussion has been solicited specifically only on those articles appearing in the Engineering Foundation's symposium “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?” Nevertheless, since the introduction of these columns in the September 1931 issue, some readers already have sent in letters on other articles, a few of which were published in subsequent issues."
"Recounts the professional achievements of Lewis Starr Streng (vice-president in charge of operation for the Louisville Gas and Electric Company, Louisville, KY, died December 24, 1931), Raymond Stanislous Masson (widely known western consulting electrical engineer and former president of the Needles, California Gas and Electric Company), William Nesbit (northeastern engineering manager of Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co. prior to his retirement two years ago, died December 31, 1931), Bertram Philip Wilber (assistant designing engineer, New York Edison Company, Irving Place, New York, ¿. Y., died in the latter part of December 1931) and William Bryan Duncan 9assistant professor of electrical engineering, Stanford University, CA, USA, died of pneumonia December 18, 1931)."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given here, with the address as it now appears on the Institute records. Any member knowing of corrections t o these addresses will kindly communicate them at once to the office of the secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In his opening speech before the Institute at its 1932 winter convention in New York, N. Y., President Skinner stressed the contributions of the engineer to the material development of the country and toward maintaining a high standard of living. Because of his ability to judge the value of so many forms of national activity, the engineer's greater participation as a citizen was urged. Excerpts from Doctor Skinner's speech follow."
"Although the moving powers of heat and electricity have raised man's physical existence to Olympian heights, they have not worked similar miracles in his spiritual life. Engineers and scientists are called upon to banish fear and hatred from the human heart by application of that greatest power of all — the power of love."
"TRANSMISSION of power over longer distances and the concentration of greater amounts of power over a single circuit have rendered the presence of a short circuit on the system a more serious matter, and a considerable effort therefore has been made to reduce the duration of the short circuits. The result has been the development of circuit breakers and relays operating to clear the disturbance in a very short time. The conventional type of induction overcurrent relaying, depending upon successively increasing time intervals to obtain proper selectivity between circuit breakers, is no longer suitable where the maximum speed is desired; and so a new form of relaying, known as distance relaying, has been developed for the general protection of transmission and distribution lines. Relays operating on the distance principle make use of the characteristic impedance or reactance of the circuit, as determined by comparing the voltage and current at the relaying point, to determine the distance from the relay to the fault. Hence, selectivity between circuit breakers can be obtained without the use of increasing time intervals in the time settings of relays as the generating station is approached."
"TOTAL or partial loss of load on waterwheel-driven generators or hydroelectric stations frequently results in undesirable voltage rise, and in such cases it is desirable to limit this voltage rise in order to avoid overstressing the insulation of generators and connected apparatus."
"Following the sudden loss of load by an alternator speed and terminal voltage tend to increase rapidly. In the following article, a method is outlined for predetermining such overvoltage, with especial reference to waterwheel generators. Test results which have been obtained on an actual machine prove that the curve of overvoltage which may be calculated by this method closely follows that secured in practise."
"Toll cables buried directly in the earth are coming into increased use. Such cables are not installed in the usual clay conduit but are protected by layers of paper, jute, and steel tapes. Complete equipment for laying this cable has been developed."
"A wound rotor induction machine may be given special characteristics by connecting the stator and rotor windings in parallel, either directly or through an auto-transformer. Pull-out torque, hp. output, and efficiency at large loads are increased for motor operation; and maximum kva. output is increased for operation as an induction generator."
"Companies with adjacent power systems are showing an ever increasing tendency to interconnect their properties. Supplementing previously published information, the following (our articles classify and discuss the various interconnection services available."
"DETERMINATION of the economic merits of an interconnection, that is, its evaluation, is greatly facilitated by an orderly and logical classification of the services which that interconnection will render. Recognition of the various classes of service is not only helpful but is quite essential in the preparation and application of the interconnection contract, as each class of service requires different provisions and rates of payment. Such classification is helpful in rationalizing design, as for instance in determining whether the services to be rendered by the interconnection warrant a double or only a single circuit."
"SYNCHRONIZED electric supply systems function as a unit, all the component parts responding to variations in the load demand. Under the interest of single ownership this inherent unit characteristic naturally was recognized but through the screen of diverse interests of multiple ownerships in interconnection is not so clearly apparent. If the best economic results are to be obtained the development and operation of each part must be related to the development and operation of the whole unit."
"COMPREHENSIVE interconnection of power generating sources has developed in New England largely because of the high load density and the economical combination of hydroelectric and steam-electric sources which have existed in this territory. The first ties were made somewhat prior to 1917 and were used to obtain steam relay power for hydroelectric developments, and to provide a market for surplus energy generated by water power. More recent ties have been made to permit also the absorption of large quantities of surplus steam-electric power from high grade steam plants and to pool resources by the sale of firm capacity in order that economical construction schedules might be obtained."
"TEN INDEPENDENT operating companies of western Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio, West Virginia, and Maryland operate normally in parallel to secure the manifold advantages of the interconnection of their facilities. Each of the systems has had its own romantic growth from the small local generating plant to the highly developed load area with its network of power lines furnished by modern power stations. It was proper then that these independent neighboring companies should cooperate to realize the benefits of interconnection. These benefits now are being secured, the common understanding of every day problems of parallel operations being secured through the working committee of operating men from each of the ten individual systems."
"Population forecasts, when carefully and intelligently made, serve a valuable purpose in helping to direct the employment of labor and capital to places or projects where they are most needed. Such forecasts cannot be based on formulas, but require careful weighing of many related factors."
"INTERPRETIVE abstracts of all papers to be presented at the A.I.E.E. Milwaukee District meeting (March 14–16, 1932) are presented herewith. Members vitally interested and wishing to obtain immediately pamphlet copies of any available papers are requested to use the order form appearing on p. 222 of this issue. In response to popular demand and within its space limitations ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING subsequently may publish certain of these papers, or technical articles based upon them."
"METHODS devised for the purpose of controlling the mercury vapor rectifier tube by means of the hot cathode grid have been produced in much profusion for the past several years. However, certain novel control methods which it is felt are based upon fundamental ideas and should be of general engineering interest are presented in this paper."
"IN ANY industrial operation such as welding, concentration of heating currents in particular parts of the metal presents obvious advantages. A method is described in this paper of concentrating these heating currents in predetermined strips of conducting plates, pipes, or other shapes. These are placed in close proximity to each other or to auxiliary conductors. They are so interconnected that heating currents concentrate largely in adjacent strips in close proximity to each other and in which the current flows in opposite directions. The shapes are connected with sources of alternating or oscillatory current of moderately high frequency. The method therefore consists in the use of an enhanced “proximity effect” to control the distribution of heating currents in bodies."
"OPPOSITION to the use of electrically operated devices in the gas industry has disappeared because of the outstanding advantages of many forms of electrical control apparatus. Although the control of gas pressure generally is still mechanical, the flexibility and sensitiveness of electrical pressure controllers has made these devices a valuable asset in the distribution of gas. Thermal meters, calorimeters, and total heat meters are among those to which electrical devices are applied. The Thomas thermal meter makes possible the automatic measurement of gas flow at standard conditions independent of variations in the temperature, pressure, and saturation condition of the gas. The Thomas calorimeter, a device comprising an unusual combination of mechanical and electrical parts, provides a means for recording gas quality; while the Thomas total heat meter, an electrical combination of the above instruments, gives a direct measurement of the energy in the gas."
"DEVELOPMENTS of telephone plant and technique have extended constantly the distance over which it is technically possible and commercially practicable to furnish toll telephone service. The result of this extension in the range of transmission has been to increase the number of possible commercial toll connections and to stimulate growth in toll service. In this paper, the toll switching plan for Wisconsin including some features of the transmission design requirements and the present and proposed toll cable network is outlined briefly. The relationship of the plan to that for handling countrywide toll connections also is touched upon."
"PoLICE organizations throughout the country are rapidly adopting the latest development in record communication, namely, the teletypewriter. By this means alarms are typed at one point and simultaneously recorded in printed form at a large number of widely separated stations. The engineering for a modern police system involves not only the provision of the teletypewriter machine, but large networks of telegraph circuits with the associated switchboards, telegraph repeaters, power plants, and testing equipment which also must be designed, manufactured, and installed."
"GREAT ADVANCES have been made in the art of producing insulation for higher voltage cables, but it is only within the last two years that any unified and organized attempt has been made to improve the weathering and insulation qualities of the covering of weatherproof line wire. The relatively high cost and poor operating performance of weatherproof coverings on overhead lines of 4,000 volts and less, indicated the necessity for taking steps to improve the weatherproof covering or to discontinue its use entirely."
"REASONS for the choice of site, general plan, and development of the Waukegan station are outlined briefly in this paper, further details being given in a companion paper by E. C. Williams. This station, located approximately 40 miles north of Chicago and on the west shore of Lake Michigan, has an installed capacity of 290,000 kw. It performs the dual function of supplying energy to a metropolitan system and a surrounding transmission system."
"DEVELOPMENT of the Waukegan station through the three periods outlined in the companion paper by J. L. Hecht is described in the present paper. Details of the changes and the reasons for them are given."
"DUE TO the increasing use of large single-shaft steam turbine units, it has been necessary to design very large generators operating at 1,800 r.p.m. The present paper describes a 115,000-kw. unit recently placed in operation. The generator is wound for 18,000 volts and the whole output of the machine, with the exception of a small part used for the operation of auxiliaries, is stepped up to 132 kv. All switching is done on the high voltage side of the transformers. Therefore it was possible to design the generator for a voltage that would permit a simple two-conductor per slot winding."
"THE BASIC principle of grid control used in connection with large mercury arc power rectifiers is reviewed briefly in order to explain a new application of rectifiers which was made possible by these improvements. This application is described, and it is shown how by its use a single-phase motor for a-c. railway electrification service with series-motor characteristics and for use on any commercial frequency can be designed. With the grid-controlled rectifier it was found possible to eliminate the commutator of the motor and practically all the expensive controlling, switching, and reversing equipment commonly used on a-c. locomotives. The data and layout of a 1,000-hp., 50-cycle, 15,000-volt, single-phase locomotive are given."
"EXPERIENCE in the operation of unattended, automatic, mercury arc rectifiers and rotary converter substations supplying 600-volt d-c. energy to overhead trolleys in interurban territory is discussed in this paper. Operating records covering a three-year period from November 1, 1928, through October 31, 1931 are presented for three mercury arc rectifiers, and two rotary converters of comparable size and operating under similar conditions."
"THE PRIMARY transmission system described in detail in this paper operates at 132 kv. and 66 kv. to transmit bulk energy from generating stations to step-down substations, and to interconnect the system of the Milwaukee Electric Railway and Light Company with hydroelectric plants in the northern peninsula of Michigan. The system is divided into power areas which are served directly from a generating station or from a step-down substation located near the load center of the area. Energy is distributed from these points over secondary transmission lines."
"SPARKOVER strength of the varipns parts used for the insulation of modern high voltage transmission systems has been subjected to a detailed study, the results of which are presented in this paper. Line and station insulation, and bushings used on the station equipment, were subjected to tests to determine their sparkover strength under a wide variety of conditions."
"A COMPARISON of the impulse flashover characteristics of various forms of protecting gaps and of station insulation shows these characteristics to vary widely for different degrees of overpotentials. In the usual type of protecting gaps, little or no provision has been made for adjustment in order to have the arcing characteristics of the gap conform to the insulation for the range of transients encountered in practise."
"A SUMMARY of data from extensive impulse and 60-cycle laboratory flashover tests upon suspension insulator strings relative to unit shell diameter and unit spacing is given in this paper. The insulating qualities and the economic advantages of the various sizes of units are discussed with due regard to the most recent lightning protection theories. Consideration is given to insulation for high voltage transmission lines of both the steel tower and wood pole types."
"DATA covering the electrical characteristics of comparable insulators, as received from different sources, are frequently conflicting and a study has been made therefore to establish rules whereby such characteristics can be estimated with a reasonable degree of certainty from the dimensions of the insulators. A long series of carefully made tests are summarized in the accompanying table."
"THE INSTITUTE'S winter convention held in New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1932, brought forth an official registration of 1,429 persons. This attendance was highly gratifying and definitely refuted the occasional predictions that attendance would be small. Of even more importance perhaps is the fact that interest exhibited in the technical sessions and other features of the convention was in line with the attendance. All in all the convention may be said to have been very successful."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Recounts the career and contributions of Frederick Lane Hutchinson."
"Commercial a-c. time service has been made possible by the development of a self-starting synchronous motor and of a master clock to indicate deviations of power system frequency from normal. Construction, accuracy, and application of various types of these devices are described in this article."
"General stability curves are given in this article by means of which the transient stability during fault may be determined for any metropolitan type system. The results are obtained as the permissible fault duration in terms of certain indexes of the system and fault. For a given fault only three readings, taken on a d-c. calculating board, are required, the solution being obtained without the necessity of investigating the electromechanical oscillations."
"Shall mind or matter be fostered? In either case, engineering is lighting the path and will continue to light the way of the coming generation. This is the ninth article of the Engineering Foundation's symposium “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?”"
"Electrochemical and electrometallurgical industries in the United States are said to consume a considerable percentage of the total annual electric power output for the entire country. The fundamental electrochemical processes are discussed in a general way with typical examples given for each general case."
"Experiments and observations show that the heart is especially susceptible to injury from electric shock. Using experimental animals, measurements of heart currents showed that about 10 per cent of the total “shock” current actually flowed through that organ."
"The development, present status, and future plans of railway electrification in western Europe were studied by the authors during the spring of 1931 on an inspection tour of the more important systems. General findings and part of the data secured are presented here."
"Impulse voltage tests provide valuable information concerning a transformer's ability to withstand high voltage surges in service. By making such tests with the transformers excited, power current will flow into any faults which occur, thus providing unmistakable evidence regarding the nature and location of such faults."
"Fully nine-tenths of all potentiometers now being built are said to find their way into industrial plants. Low-resistance instruments are shown to possess many advantages over those with high resistance."
"Regulation of tie lines interconnecting two electric power systems is a problem of load control rather than one involving principally system frequency; for best results, the control equipmen must be automatic. Apparatus developed to meet this need is described in this article, and the results from two years' operating experience are outlined."
"Two synchronous-induction frequency converters with controllable frequency ratio and full automatic features were chosen to tie a 25-cycle and a 60-cycle system. Consideration of generation loads, load cycles, and stability of both systems led to the selection of this type of unit."
"INTERPRETIVE abstracts of all papers which at the time of this issue are definitely scheduled for presentation at the A.I.E.E. Providence District meeting (May 4–7, 1932) are published herewith. Papers presented at this meeting will not be available in pamphlet form, but in response to popular demand and within its space limitations, ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING subsequently may publish certain of these papers, or technical articles based upon them."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of the thyratron or three-element hot-cathode gas-filled tube with grid-controlled arc has given electrical engineeing a new tool. Many interesting and valuable applications have been devised, among the most interesting of these being the “inverter.” Its purpose is the inversion or changing of direct current to alternating current, the reverse process of the more usual rectification. With the advent of the thyratron with its high efficiency, low voltage drop, and its ability to handle the comparatively large amounts of power, the inverter gives promise of becoming of commercial importance."
"WURING the last few years vacuum tubes have found an ever-enlarging field in industrial applications, the more recent gas filled electron tubes providing the engineer with a tool even better suited to his needs. Among the outstanding engineering features of the gas or vapor filled electron tube (to which the name phanotron has been applied) are as follows."
"IN BRIDGE measurements, harmonics, due to a nonlinear load being measured or due to the power supply may fail to be balanced at the same time the fundamental is balanced. This impresses on the detecting system a wave containing a large proportion of harmonics, or, at true fundamental balance, harmonics without fundamental component. The detecting system contains magnetic materials and may include a vacuum tube amplifier. Different observers have found errors which they traced to the apparent conversion of part of the harmonics into a fundamental component."
"GENERALLY it is conceded that the present situation in regard to the electric and magnetic units is far from satisfactory, for the following reasons."
"The FUNDAMENTAL discovery that the ratio of the “absolute” electrostatic unit to the “absolute” electromagnetic unit of electric charge, predicted as velocity, was apparently identical with the velocity of light brought about an unforeseen confusion in the field of electrical units. The use of various absolute dimension systems expressing the electric and magnetic quantities by means of the three mechanical fundamental dimensions influenced the writing style of formulas and caused the introduction of arbitrary factors."
"The MEANS given in this paper for calculating the performance of both single phase and polyphase induction motors is intended primarily for calculations from previously determined design constants. By actual trial the methods have been found to be very easy to learn and use even without a knowledge of induction motor theory, and are very rapid."
"FOR LACK of a satisfactory method of measurement, no provision is made for stray load losses in the A.I.E.E. standard efficiency tests for induction motors. These losses may amount to from 2 to 5 per cent in squirrel cage motors from 1 to 5 hp. in size, decreasing gradually with increase in motor rating until they are less than 1 per cent for motors of several hundred horsepower. Development of an easy method of measuring stray load losses would not only rectify this situation, but also would permit the losses themselves to be studied more intensively and perhaps ultimately to be reduced greatly."
"The DETERMINATION of the behavior of synchronous machines during transient conditions subsequent to a system disturbance is becoming increasingly interesting and important. In determining this behavior it is essential to know the torque-angle characteristic of the given machine under conditions resulting from disturbances of various sorts. The most important of such disturbances are variations in mechanical torque, excitation voltage, amount of external reactance, and system voltage. System voltage may vary in either magnitude or angular position."
"PRACTICAL system tests of the damping action of generators with and without low resistance damper windings, but otherwise identical, have been made. The effects of normal variations of generator field circuit resistance, field current, and loading were investigated, and data for checking calculated machine constants also were obtained. The results of the tests presented in this paper are valuable from a quantitative, as well as from a qualitative standpoint."
"THE PRESENT methods of calculating the full load performance of capacitor motors are quite long and tedious. A simple convenient method of calculating full load conditions is given in this paper, including the necessary theory and formulas."
"VEHICLE actuated traffic dispatching systems may be used by which the traffic in a given area controls itself. By this means the duration of the green light period at any intersection is in proportion to the volume of traffic on each approach. A smooth flow of vehicles is produced which uses the intersection efficiently."
"A FLEXIBLE progressive traffic signal system usually makes it possible to time signals so that traffic may move east and west, as well as north and south, at predetermined uniform speeds without being obstructed by a “stop” signal after once having passed a “go” signal. The planning of such a system is a matter that requires most intelligent study and one which yields results well worth the effort. Traffic-actuated equipment seldom can be justified over pre-timed equipment, as in a great majority of congested districts the coordination of the movement of traffic through the entire district is of incomparably greater importance than the most efficient movement of traffic at any few intersections taken by themselves."
"A TIMING device containing new features and having extremely wide ranges of adjustment recently has been developed as a means for meeting the problems encountered in controlling present day vehicular traffic."
"THE PRACTISE of assigning a definite period for the red and green lights of each traffic signal, and keeping these periods constant throughout the day and week, is subject to serious criticism. Needless delays and congestion are caused, and the obedience of motorists to traffic signals in general may be broken down."
"DURING the past year, the subject of power transmission by multiple conductor circuits has received considerable attention. Therefore the formulas and estimating curves given in this paper may be of interest."
"THE EFFECT of traveling waves upon terminal apparatus usually is most easily solved by means of Heaviside's operational calculus. Solutions have been given previously for various combinations of impedances that may be encountered in service, by considering such impedances to be contained in simple circuits. These are intended to approximate the general conditions of a transmission system. However, a purely mathematical analysis of such an involved nature often is looked upon skeptically and experimental variation of such calculation therefore is valuable."
"THE EIGHTH annual meeting of the North Eastern District of the A.I.E.E. will be held at Providence, Rhode Island, May 4–7, 1932, with headquarters at the Providence Biltmore Hotel. The committee has arranged an attractive program consisting of four technical sessions, inspection trips, a banquet, entertainment features, and a special program for the ladies. Another important feature of the meeting will be the student program scheduled for Friday, May 6. The technical sessions cover a variety of subjects. There will be a symposium on traffic control, a session arranged by the committee on electrical machinery, one by the committee on power transmission and distribution, and a session on selected subjects."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Previous to the last two years, development of weather resistant covering for line wires lay in the hands of the manufacturer and was centered upon meeting the demand for a cheaper product. This resulted in a decreasing life of the covering. Research described in this article points the way to a greatly improved covering which, although slightly more expensive to produce, can be justified economically by its longer life and higher insulating quality. Specifications for the saturant of such a covering are presented herewith."
"Severe flashovers have occurred in ungrounded 4,800-volt distribution substations in Detroit. Impulse tests have proved that these were caused by surges reflected from regulator windings, but can be prevented by the proper placing of lightning arresters."
"Rapid extension of the low-voltage a-c. network in metropolitan areas has required the solution of a number of new problems, among them being the development of a suitable network protector consisting of circuit breaker, relays, etc., to disconnect the feeder from the network at the proper times."
"DISCOVERED BY SCHEELE in 1778 in the form of an oxid, molybdenum was first separated as a metal by Hjelm in 1782. Now it is produced commercially by hydrogen reduction of the oxid, pure oxid being obtained from ammonium molybdate. The resulting metallic powder is sintered, forged, and rolled into desired shapes. When pure, molybdenum is soft, white, and ductile."
"Introduction of gas or vapor into electron tubes has increased greatly the field of application of these devices. Hot-cathode mercury vapor tubes of this type are especially adapted to rectifier and inverter service. Fundamentals, design features, and operating characteristics of these tubes are given in this article."
"Application of engineering methods, training, and skill to the social, political, and industrial problems of the present day would contribute in a valuable way toward satisfactory stabilization. This is the tenth article in The Engineering Foundation's symposium “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?”"
"WHILE one group of scientists has been perfecting electrical machinery that will run at higher and still higher speeds, another group has been going to the other extreme by perfecting a timing motor that will revolve only twice a day. By following the same principles the speed could be slowed down to one revolution per year or even less. Theoretically there is no limit to the slowness that could be achieved, according to L. W. Chubb and T. R. Watts research engineers of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing: Company."
"A new relationship connecting the open-circuit remanence of a permanent magnet with the factors which determine its value has been found. This relationship, shown by Fig. 2 of the following article, appears to be general and valid for all kinds of magnet steel. Also, criterions of magnetic quality are presented, including a nomogram chart for permanent magnet design."
"IN ITS ELECTRIFICATION in and around Philadelphia, the Pennsylvania Railroad has made use of two installations of supervisory control for the remote operation of high voltage a-c. step-down substations. In a current A.I.E.E. paper (see footnote) C. P. West (M'28) Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa., and H. C. Griffith, Pennsylvania Railroad Company, Philadelphia, Pa., describe some of the features of the installation and relate in detail how some of the difficulties encountered were solved."
"Standard decrement curves in use for a number of years in the calculation of power system voltages and currents under fault conditions now have been revised and are presented herewith. Their use enables the determination of the magnitudes of voltages and currents for various intervals of time subsequent to the occurrence of a fault."
"A supervisory control system operating entirely on alternating current and possessing great reliability is described in this article. With a suitable switchboard arrangement, the operator is said to be able to visualize switching conditions at a glance; the system has the further advantage of employing only equipment with which operators are familiar."
"Three carrier telephone circuits and one telegraph circuit are provided by this newest cable linking the United States with Cuba. The design is such that still more carrier channels may be provided when the need for them arises."
"Progress and improvement in any art or science are not made without provision for suitable measurements. Many advances in the field of electrical units and their measurements have been scored within the past forty or fifty years. Developments in electrical measurements have been satisfactory in that they have kept slightly ahead of practical demands."
"The mercury ohm, long recognized as a standard of resistance, with its elaborate technique and many disadvantages has become obsolescent. The reasons for this, together with a brief historical sketch of the ohm, are presented in this article."
"Although unremitting care must be exercised in their manufacture and handling, cadmium cells have proved to be convenient and reliable sources of standard e.m.f. Principal characteristics of these units and precautions to be observed in their use are pointed out in this article."
"To overcome confusion in the use of electromagnetic units, the International Electrotechnical Commission through its subcommittee on electric and magnetic magnitudes and units has been working for several years toward standardization in definition and nomenclature. In this article, recent actions in that direction are discussed and a brief summary of earlier contingent actions is given."
"FOR THE 48th annual summer convention of the A.I.E.E. to be held at Cleveland, Ohio, June 20–24, 1932, the Cleveland national convention committee has planned a program of entertainment, inspection trips, and recreation, supplementing the excellent technical sessions, all of which should cause this convention to be attractive as a vacation as well as of benefit professionally. Convention headquarters will be at the Hotel Cleveland, located on the Public Square of the city."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Can you attend six conventions a year? Can you digest 150 or more technical papers each twelve months? Can you personally meet satisfactorily the demands imposed by the continuing rapid evolution in the art of electrical engineering and its successful application? This article may reveal to you unexpectedly available facilities."
"Council has undertaken a comprehensive study of a far-reaching problem which in one way or another undoubtedly affects every member of the Institute. In recognition of the highly controversial nature of this whole general subject, essentially the full text of a progress report is presented in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, without comment, but with an open invitation for comments, criticisms, and suggestions. — The Editors."
"Many problems had to be solved before the handset type of telephone, now so popular with the public, became a practical reality. This article tells how some of these problems were solved, and how the characteristics of the present handset differ from those of the desk stand instrument."
"Ideal commutation of armature currents can be obtained in but very few practical cases. In all others, a spark occurs at both the leading and trailing edges of the brush, and the introduction of the concept of switching assists in explaining this phenomenon. A brief analysis of the various considerations entering the problem is given in this article."
"There is no general agreement among physicists concerning the mechanism which produces a Iqw cathode drop with the correspondingly high current density which is characteristic of an electric arc. Herewith is presented a review of prevalent theories regarding this phenomenon, and results of some experiments on arc and glow discharges."
"A mathematical study of the oscillations occurring in a pair of mutually coupled windings, the primary and secondary of a transformer, when one of the terminals is subjected to the impact of a traveling wave, has been completed. The general conclusions reached in this study are summarized in the following article."
"The coordination of transformer insulation with line insulation recently has been discussed widely, and sentiment has changed gradually in favor of the use of an air-gap for purposes of coordination as against the practise of reducing the line insulation near the substation. Standards of dielectric strength and air-gap spacing in accordance with this trend are presented herewith."
"The reasons for the development, choice of site, and general plan of the Waukegan station are outlined briefly in this article. The three major periods of development are covered, the article serving as an introduction to the two companion articles “Waukegan Features New Electrical Design” and “A 115,000-Kw. Turbo-Alternator,” which follow."
"Three new electrical developments incorporated during the last development period of Waukegan station are described in this article. They include the first 132-kv. metal-clad switchgear ever used, a 115,-000-kw. single-shaft turbo-alternator the rotor of which was the largest forging ever made in this country, and a coal-car mule for which a new scheme of a-c. drive was developed."
"The tendency of large steam turbine design toward single-shaft units has greatly increased the size of generators operating at 1,800 r.p.m. Consequently, the designer has had to solve a number of problems, mechanical and electrical, because of the great axial length of these machines and the large weights involved, particularly in the rotor. A new scheme of rotor ventilation and other features of such an alternator are described in this article."
"An “EXPONENTIAL” slide rule eveloped to facilitate problems involving the logarithms or antilogarithms of numbers. It differs from the ordinary slide rule of logarithms in two fundamental respects: (1) natural logarithms (to the base e = 2.71828) are given, and (2) both the characteristic and mantissa are determined directly in one reading. Logarithms of numbers from 0.00001 to 100,000, and the corresponding antilogarithms are given. As the addition of the characteristic normally would reduce the accuracy of the rule, the scale of logarithms has been split up into five 10-in. sections, thus giving an accuracy comparable with that of the ordinary rule. This exponential slide rule was developed by L. B. Sklar (A '30) 816 North 6th Street, Philadelphia, Pa."
"A new multiple unit car motor incorporating many novel design features was developed for the electrification of the Lackawanna suburban service in New Jersey. So far, these motors have required but little maintenance, and have been remarkably free from flashovers, insulation failures, and mechanical troubles."
"ENGINEERING with its benefits enters our homes daily in many ways. Manufacture of artificial ice and mechanical cooling of space have become commonplaces and constitute a major achievement of engineering and science."
"INTERPRETIVE abstracts of all technical papers to be presented at the A.I.E.E. summer convention, June 20–24, 1932, are included herewith, excepting only two papers. One of these is published in full on p. 390–1 of this issue; for the other, manuscript had not been received at the time this issue went to press. Members vitally interested and wishing to obtain pamphlet copies may do so by writing to the A.I.E.E. Order Dept., 33 W. 39th Street, New York, N. Y., stating title, author, and number of paper desired. In response to popular demand and within its space limitations ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING subsequently may publish certain of these papers, or technical articles based upon them."
"I HE PRACTISING engineer is vitally concerned with education because the young graduates are trained to meet the specifications of his profession, to join its ranks, and to work beside him in the years to come. He should give advice therefore as to the economic and professional content and interrelation of the programs."
"PURVEYS made by sending questionnaires to organized groups of engineers have established some important facts regarding functional distribution and financial reward. These facts have been interpreted differently, but in order to use them as the basis of any formulation of educational policy, they should be rationalized in terms of their historical setting. Such has been the object of this study."
"I HE LOAD characteristics, generating stations, and transmission lines of the Chicago territory and particularly the power supply of Chicago proper, are outlined in this paper."
"Maximum system economy is attained when the sum of operating costs plus fixed charges on investment is a minimum. Considerations of reliability usually lead to increased capital investment for sturdier facilities and for spare equipment, and consequently add to the fixed charge burden. Fortunately, however, operating costs are to some extent inversely proportional to fixed charges, and analyses of system performance often will reveal operating savings which can result from judicious use of investment in spare facilities."
"WITH BUT few exceptions, the requirements for extreme reliability and the economical use of resources in any electric system are diametrically opposed. It is not particularly difficult to design and operate a system to give any practicable degree of reliability of customer service if no consideration need be given to the price the customer must pay. On the other hand, if the service standards were lowered sufficiently, a system could be designed and operated with an over-all economy exceeding present values. The real problem is to obtain the required reliability with the maximum operating economy and the minimum of investment."
"IN THE DEVELOPMENT and operation of a successfully managed public utility reliability and economy must be based on the particular conditions inherent to the locality which it serves. As a result, every company's problems must have individual study and no set and fast rules can be established for their solution. However, the policies, practises, and experiences of each are helpful in molding the development of others."
"INTEREST in oxid coatings on aluminum began with the discovery of the metal about 100 years ago, for the chemical attraction of aluminum for oxygen is one of the most important characteristics of the metal. At various times in the history of aluminum, attention, from the scientific standpoint or from the commercial point of view, has been focused on the oxid film. To the scientist, for example, the electrical characteristics of the oxid film have been of great theoretical interest and for many years have been the subject of experimental study and speculation. Important commercial uses of the film in various electrical devices have followed upon the scientific studies."
"Low VOLTAGE circuits supplying electric furnaces present special problems in the calculation of inductance and current distribution, in that the conductors employed vary in arrangement and cross-section, and are relatively short. The very large currents carried give rise to reactive drops of greater magnitude than is usually supposed, and a detailed study of the inductance of such circuits therefore is desirable."
"APPLICATION of a strong electrostatic field accompanied by corona discharge to the cleaning of gases was first shown by Hohlfeld in 1824. In 1884 his observations were extended by Sir Oliver Lodge, who continued the work and made a practical installation at a lead smelter in Scotland. In 1905 and 1906 this work was extended by Doctor Cottrell; this extension led to the development of the electrical precipitation process for the separation of solids and liquids from gases. This process is now used in a variety of applications."
"CONNECTIONS of reactors and capacitors in series and in parallel permit obtaining voltampere characteristics which are non-linear and which present interesting possibilities when applied to voltage sensitive and current sensitive relays. With the reactor and capacitor connected in series and properly adjusted, there is a value of increasing voltage for which the current suddenly changes to a high value, and another value of decreasing voltage for which the current suddenly decreases. These characteristics assist in obtaining a relay which is sensitive to small changes in voltage. Similarly, a current sensitive relay can be obtained by the parallel connection of reactor and capacitor."
"ASAN ALTERNATIVE to the use of distribution transformers of present levels of dielectric strength with lightning arresters connected either in the customary manner or having the primary lightning arrester ground interconnected with the grounded neutral of the transformer secondary main, a study of the coordination of insulation of distribution transformers has been carried out."
"THE REQUIREMENTS and limitations of surge generators for transformer testing can be summed up as follows : When the capacity of the transformer is great, the voltage that can be obtained is in the first place largely determined by the capacity of the surge generator."
"PUBLISHED in full in this issue of Electrical Engineering, p. 390–1."
"THE INFLUENCE of saturation phenomena in series reactors on the circuit performance of load ratio control equipment has been made the subject of the present study. It has been found that unless care is exercised in the design of these reactors, gross distortion may be introduced into the circuit, resulting in obtaining across the reactor voltage peaks which may endanger the insulation, and greatly increase the rupturing duty of the circuit breakers."
"THE ANALYSIS of synchronous machines previously published by Doherty and Nickle is extended in this paper to include the calculation of torque due to single phase short circuits. The torque is expressed as the sum of odd and even harmonic series which are simply related to those previously derived for the armature current. The effect of amortisseur windings also is taken into account. As an illustration of the application of the equations, the short-circuit torque is calculated for a 100,000-kva. generator."
"AN EXTENSION to salient pole machines is made in this paper, based upon the author's “Transient Analysis of A-C. Machinery.” All of the cases as calculated in “Three-Phase Short-Circuit, Synchronous Machines — V” by R. E. Doherty and C. A. Nickel, A.I.E.E. Trans., v. 49, 1930, p. 700–14, are recalculated by an exact analysis. It is stated that this analysis checks quite closely the approximate analysis of Doherty and Nickle."
"IN DESIGNING electrical commutating machinery, an attempt is made usually to produce during commutation a linear change of current with time. This, however, is rarely achieved, and the current density therefore usually is not constant across the brush surface, nor is the contact drop constant. The contact drop also will change with time in any small area on the brush surface, and therefore the static curve between voltage and current measured at the brush contact cannot be used."
"HISTORY of air transportation within the past few years indicates that continued growth may be expected, particularly as hazards to flying are mitigated and safety and dependability are recognized by the public. The government is continuing the extension of airways, weather reporting, and other services, and air transport companies are progressing in developing transport business. Fast and reliable communication service has proved the backbone of weather and position reporting, and has been a valuable aid in the handling of traffic."
"DURING 75 flights made in the vicinity of Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, during 1931, data have been collected to determine the intensity of electromagnetic radiation from aircraft in flight."
"FUNDAMENTAL advances in recording and reproducing sound have been made recently through the use of vertical undulations on a disk. These vertically cut disk sound records possess important advantages over laterally cut records, and their use has permitted both the recorder and reproducer to be greatly improved. Among the changes made are the use of “cathode sputtering” to render the original wax electrically conducting before being electroplated, instead of the previous process of graphiting the wax; and the replacing of the abrasive record of the past with a non-abrasive final record."
"TWO GENERAL electrical methods of quickly stopping synchronous machines are plugging and dynamic braking. Plugging, consisting of reversing the phase rotation of the voltage applied to the armature winding, is subjected to a number of serious objections. Dynamic braking, consisting of short-circuiting the armature through an external resistor and maintaining field excitation, is more desirable and generally will result in quicker stopping."
"I ODAY the induction motor bids fair to bring about another revolution of ideas as regards its use and capabilities. Heretofore, particularly in respect to the squirrel cage motor, it has been confined to rather restricted fields of application. Its starting characteristics and the need of special starting devices were against it. Now, limited-starting-current motors such as those employing double cage rotors are overcoming these starting objections. The use of these “across-the-line” motors has encouraged the idea of throwing standard motors directly on the line as well as the use of induction motors for applications demanding frequent starting or reversing. Formerly the squirrel cage motor was looked upon as one to be applied only for constant speed service; today there are many applications where the operating range covers wide variations in speed."
"TRACKS of electric railways, being continuously in contact with the earth, allow current to leak into the earth, the track current thus varying continuously at various points along the length of the track, unlike the currents in other conductors of the propulsion system. This paper aims to present a systematic treatment of current propagation in the tracks with a view to providing a theoretical foundation for the treatment of engineering problems in which the electrical behavior of the tracks as a part of the current-carrying system is important."
"MAINTENANCE of stability on modern interconnected high capacity transmission systems is made considerably easier by the use of relays which not only operate extremely rapidly on line faults, especially three phase short circuits, but refrain from operating on the surges of power which often follow the interruption of the fault current. In this paper a new distance relay is described which, it is stated, seems to go further in the direction of meeting these requirements than anything hitherto described."
"APPLICATION of carrier current communication to transmission lines required the development of coupling capacitors. These coupling capacitors may be used also in combination with transformers to obtain potential from the transmission line. This potential will be suitable for the operation of certain instruments and relays, depending upon burden and accuracy requirements. By the addition of suitable chokes, the coupling capacitors may be used also for carrier current communication. It is the purpose of this paper to describe briefly these coupling capacitors, and to point out means for utilizing them for the purpose of obtaining potential for relaying operation, and to call attention to some applications."
"CONSTRUCTION of the Osage hydroelectric plant and its interconnection with the existing system of the Union Electric Light & Power Company of St. Louis, Mo., made desirable a study of the relaying schemes as applied for the 66-kv. and 132-kv. transmission lines."
"RECOGNITION of the part played by gas blasts in interrupting arcs in oil circuit breakers and expulsion fuses has opened new avenues for improvements in these devices. The present paper deals with a new type of fuse in which greatly improved performance is obtained by more effective use of the self-generated gas blast."
"FIELD EXPERIENCE over the last three years establishes the condenser bushing potential device as a reliable and adequate source of potential for the relaying of high voltage systems. The potential device utilizes the inherent potentiometer characteristics of standard condenser bushings used in high voltage circuit breakers and transformers, and depends for its operation on the charging current through the bushing acting as an electrostatic condenser."
"ALL SUBSTATIONS and switching stations for the Reading suburban electrification are non-attended and are operated by supervisory control. The supervisory control system provides the dispatcher with the following operating features."
"SPECIFICATIONS for a supervisory system have been modified only slightly during the last few years, and usually require the following: reliability, low maintenance, high speed, simplicity, flexibility, minimum connecting wires, and good appearance. The requirement of minimum interconnecting wires especially is important when the control is to be extended any distance."
"A SUBCOMMITTEE of two committees of the Institute, namely, the committee on automatic stations, D. W. Taylor, 2 5 chairman, and the committee on instruments and measurements, E. J. Rutan, 2 2 chairman, has prepared a report which tabulates and describes, from the point of view of the operating engineer or user, telemetering and supervisory control systems in use today."
"BY MEANS of the torque balance telemeter it is now possible to indicate or record with instrument speed and accuracy, the value of such quantities as watts, amperes, volts, temperature, pressure, and flow. These indications may be made up to distances of 100 miles. The value of direct current which is used as the translating means is well within the limit stipulated by the telephone companies. Also, the telemeter automatically compensates for variation in line wire resistance, auxiliary supply power voltage, and variations in tube characteristics."
"VIBRATION in electrical conductors is discussed in this paper. Stress is placed upon the necessity for the development of some new types of conductor which will, because of their shape or some inherent quality, resist more successfully than standard sections, the tendency to vibrate and the tendency to fail because of resulting fatigue. A number of appliances have been put forward from time to time which tend to reduce the amount of vibration ordinarily observed in a span. They are usually called dampers. However, there has been very little work done in the study of preventives."
"PHENOMENA of vibration in transmission lines due to the action of a transverse wind are encountered most frequently at moderate wind velocities (about 5 miles per hr.) and are characterized by rather high frequencies (5 to 15 cycles per sec.) and small amplitudes (up to a few cable diameters). This type of vibration is caused by the “Karman” vortices forming behind the wire and is well understood."
"RESULTS of tensile stress-strain tests illustrating the actual behavior of various conductors used in bare overhead transmission lines, and the effect upon this behavior of certain factors such as repeated stressing and lay of the cable, are presented in this paper."
"STUDIES of vibration of overhead conductors have been prosecuted vigorously for several years in laboratory and fields. The importance of magnitude and distribution of stresses in multiplestrand conductors led to the development of a unique method for measuring stresses in vibrating conductors in the laboratory under conditions closely simulating field conditions, and numerous schemes for effecting better stress distribution at conductor supports have been investigated. These tests have been facilitated by the development of special Machinery. Field work has been conducted on special outdoor spans, and observations have been made also upon operating lines at widely separated locations."
"FINAL arrangements for the 48th annual summer convention of the Institute to be held at Cleveland, Ohio, June 20–24, 1932, now have been made by the Cleveland national convention committee. Advance notices have been mailed by this committee, which requests that all interested parties send in the return cards supplied. These include the advance registration card, one for hotel registration, and another for sports. As previously announced, there will be no registration fee for the main convention program."
"I have frequently in the past few months seen references to “the forces of ignorance, tradition” and so on, in various ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING articles; and now again in the March issue in Doctor E. W. Rice's address, as recorded on page 197, we have — “The forces of ignorance, tradition, and superstitition are strong and view with some alarm the progress of science” … “After all, the forces of reaction and ignorance cannot prevail permanently in a country in which the voters are properly educated.”"
"Recounts the life and professional achievements of Benson Osborn Ellis (operating manager of the Cia Anglo Argentina de Electricidad, S.A., died October 1931), Henry E. McGowan (secretary of the Brooklyn (NY) Union Gas Company, died May 7, 1932), Carl Leo Mees (president emeritus of Rose Polytechnic Institute, Terre Haute, Ind., and prominent as a scientist and medical authority, died at Terre Haute, April 19, 1932), Harry N. Van Deusen (materials engineer for the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., New York, NY, died suddenly May 15, 1932), William H. Hill (superintendent of electrical construction for the New York Edison Company, died May 4, 1932), Louis George Freeman (for more than twenty years in charge of the lighting, power, and signal systems, and the design and installation of simple laboratory apparatus for the US Geological Survey, Washington, DC, died December 8, 1931)."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"DURING the year 1931 the Committee on Research has encouraged the presentation of research papers and has reviewed many for sessions on research before the A.I.E.E. On account of the broad field which must be covered by this committee it has been impracticable to organize subcommittees under any specific classification. The burden of reviewing papers has fallen to practically all members and excellent cooperation has been obtained by correspondence and without committee meetings."
"THE committee during the year has reviewed approximately 50 papers, of which 24 have actually been accepted and published. Work on the preparation of test codes has been carried on during the year, and the Transformer Test Code was published in preliminary form in October. Favorable comments have been received on this, and work on the test codes for induction machines, synchronous machines, and d-c. machines is now approaching completion."
"THE work of the Committee on Protective Devices during the past year was handled largely through subcommittees as has been the practise for several years."
"THE Committee on Instruments and Measurements during the year 1931–32 has had an active membership of 23 members. At the meeting held in October 15 members were in attendance, and at the meeting held in January 13 members attended. Considering the geographical distribution of the membership, this attendance is exceptionally good."
"THE Reading Company began operation on July 26, 1931, of the first portion of its electrified suburban service running out of Philadelphia. Multiple-unit cars are now operated over 64.6 miles of route embracing 156.9 track miles and the electrification of two more branches is in progress, the completion of which will bring the total electrified mileage to 86.9 route miles or 203 track miles. Single-phase, 25-cycle, alternating current is supplied by the Philadelphia Electric Company through outdoor frequency changer sets located on the railroad's property at Wayne Junction, and is distributed to the trains over a 36,000/12,000 three-wire system with 12,000 volts between the overhead contact wires and the rails, and 24,000 volts between the rails and the feeders carried on the catenary structures. Provision has been made on these structures for supporting transmission lines of higher voltage when future extensions of the electrification make it necessary. Over a part of the right-of-way steel towers are to be used jointly by the power company for highvoltage transmission and by the railroad for supporting its catenary system. All of the power switching is handled from a single supervisory control board at Wayne Junction, at which point also are located the repair shops and storage yards for the car equipment."
"AS in the past few years, the major items of activity of the committee have been : 1. Accumulating, as a result of experience, data for revision of Standards No. 45, Recommended Practise for Electrical Installations on Shipboard."
"THE past year has been one of very greatly reduced activity in all classes of mines. New machines and new applications of electricity in mining work have been few and, generally, of a minor nature. There has, of course, been no incentive to force production or to increase the capacity of mines, and labor-saving devices have not been in demand because of an unwillingness on the part of operators to aggravate the bad unemployment situation. However, there have been some installations and devices worthy of comment."
"THE activities of the Committee on Power Transmission and Distribution have continued through the past year along the lines organized in previous years. Various subjects of interest to the Institute membership have been treated in a number of papers presented before the conventions and district meetings."
"DURING the past year the committee has not sponsored a session at any of the meetings or conventions, but has reviewed and reported upon a number of industrial papers. Two of these papers were presented at the Pacific Coast convention at Lake Tahoe, August 1931, and as far as we know these were the only industrial papers presented at district meetings before the Institute during the year."
"IT is estimated that the steel industry expended approximately 35 million dollars in 1931 for the purchase and installation of new apparatus, the maintenance of old equipment, and in the purchase or generation of electric power."
"THE Committee on Communication continued the practise of outlining at the beginning of the Institute year tentative communication programs for each of the subsequent scheduled Institute meetings. In making up the year's outline, the Committee strove to select material which would be of broad interest to the Institute as a whole and, in particular, to foster the presentation of papers on subjects that had not been covered before or that had received but little recent attention. A successful endeavor was made to cover such subjects in a rather complete and thorough way. The advance planning of programs greatly aided this by allowing the Committee ample time to solicit authoritative papers discussing all the major aspects of each subject selected for extended treatment."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An outstanding article is presented herewith. It is the address given on June 21, 1932, by Doctor Wickenden during a special session of the recently completed forty-eighth annual summer convention of the Institute in Cleveland, Ohio. Its message is of tremendous importance to engineers and to society. — Editors."
"Many points of direct interest and prime importance to members of the Institute, individually and collectively, were discussed by President Skinner in the annual address before the summer convention. That the entire membership may benefit accordingly, the full text of the address is published herewith. — The Editors."
"In view of clear trends of experience — of the movement of engineers into management — shall we conclude that technical engineering has proved to be an effective and sufficient training at college for those who may later enter the field of management? Or, shall we consider it necessary to modify radically all engineering curricula in order to prepare men primarily for management? Or, again, and from the same experience, shall we plan separately for each? And, having answered this, what should the plan be?"
"Laboratory tests reveal some interesting characteristics of conductor vibration and its effect upon conductor life; common hardware accessories, and less-common vibration dampers, are shown to have marked effects. Mathematical analyses of the stresses in standard sizes of conductors as commonly used for electric power transmission lines check closely with these stresses as measured. Field experiments in conductor vibration will be treated in another article which will appear in a subsequent issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING."
"High sustained available and controllable continuous output is considered one of the outstanding characteristics of locomotives recently designed for the Pennsylvania Railroad. This high output has been made possible by the use of motors of improved design together with transformers having suitably selected taps. Important features of these locomotives are treated in this article."
"Through government aid, great progress has been made during recent years in reducing the hazards of bad weather to air transportation. Practically continuous reporting of meteorological information and weather forecasting along the principal airways is carried on with the aid of extensive teletypewriter network."
"Calorimeter tests on a 55,000-kva. hydroelectric generator show that the difference between stray load losses measured under load conditions and those measured under short-circuit conditions is slight. The method used by the authors is said to be applicable in general to all large units where an enclosed system of ventilation is used."
"Results of an investigation of the grid and plate currents in a grid-controlled mercury-vapor tube show that the direction of grid current in these tubes depends not only upon the instantaneous polarity of the grid, but also upon the magnitude of both the grid voltage and the plate current. It is shown also that inverse plate current flows whenever grid current is flowing during the negative half cycle of plate voltage."
"Many factors affect the flashover characteristics of porcelain insulators; these characteristics in turn have a direct bearing upon insulator design and upon the choice of proper insulation for any particular purpose. In the following group of three articles by representatives of three of the leading insulator manufacturers, results of investigations made in this field by these manufacturers are given. In the past, many of the data for comparable insulators from different sources seemed conflicting. In these articles, however, reasonably careful study will reveal many points of agreement, when the results are reduced to a comparable basis. The first two articles deal with the effect of various factors on insulator sparkover characteristics; the third article deals with the flashover characteristics of suspension insulators, and also contains data relating to the cost and selection of economical suspension insulator assemblies."
"DATA covering the electrical characteristics of comparable insulators as received from different sources frequently are conflicting. In an attempt to clarify some aspects of this controversial subject, a study has been made to establish rules whereby such characteristics can be estimated from the dimensions of the insulators with a reasonable degree of certainty. Variations in the arcover potential of dry insulators due to the influence of humidity changes also are considered and approximate correction ratios given."
"WHILE the mechanical properties and strength of the various parts entering into the design of a modern transmission system are quite well known, the electrical characteristics of the various parts often are not so definitely understood. This is true particularly of the electrical properties of the insulating parts, including the line and station insulation and bushings used in the station equipment. In this article are presented data on the sparkover strength of the various parts used for the insulation of modern high voltage transmission systems. Results are given of tests made to determine how insulator sparkover is affected by various factors."
"IN THE PAST the effectiveness of transmission line insulation has been judged almost entirely by its 60-cycle flashover characteristics. On this basis the wide changes in spacing and diameter of suspension insulator units have affected the over-all flashover values but little. Recently, however, it has been realized that the criterion for insulation should be based upon impulse flashover characteristics rather than upon the 60-cycle behavior. Limited laboratory tests using impulse voltages showed that the impulse flashover voltage of insulator strings is changed appreciably by varying the diameter and spacing of the individual units. Economic studies show that, in general, low cost is associated with large diameter units spaced close together."
"TECHNICAL and entertainment programs have been arranged for the Institute's Pacific Coast convention to be held at Vancouver, B. C., August 30 to September 2, 1932 and promise 4 days which should be truly inspirational to members and guests. In addition to the formal program there are excellent facilities for all types of sports and entertainment for those intending to spend their vacation in Vancouver."
"FROM Mexico City to Saskatchewan, from British Columbia to Florida, and even from England came members and their guests to attend the 48th annual summer convention of the Institute held at Cleveland, Ohio, June 20–24, 1932. A fitting tribute to the Cleveland convention committee, and an inspiring exemplification of the sturdy qualities of the Institute and its loyal members was the record of attendance, which was 1,022. From Cleveland and vicinity the total registration was 544, and from points other than Cleveland 478. Reflecting the attractive characteristics of the convention program of technical, social, and entertainment features, the attendance this year represents some 111 per cent of the average attendance of the last 10 summer conventions and 63 per cent of the maximum ever recorded at a summer convention (Swampscott, Mass., 1,616 in 1923), figures which compare far more than favorably with those of other similar national conventions held this season."
"With President C. E. Skinner presiding, the annual meeting of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Hotel Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio, as the opening session of the annual summer convention, Monday morning, June 20, 1932."
"On Monday and Tuesday afternoons, June 20 and 21, 1932, the conference of officers, delegates, and members of the Institute was held at Cleveland, Ohio, as part of the recent summer convention. This conference was under the auspices of the Sections committee and the committee on student Branches. Present at this conference were delegates from 49 of the 60 Sections, 9 of the 10 District secretaries, and counselor delegates from 7 of the 9 Districts in which committees on student activities have been organized, as well as officers, officers-elect, and other members."
"PRINCIPAL discussions of Providence District meeting papers are summarized herewith. The papers to which these discussions refer were abstracted in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for April 1932, p. 263–7."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IN ASSUMING the duties as your president, I welcome the opportunity afforded through ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING to express my deep appreciation of the honor you have conferred upon me and to say a few words concerning the activities of the Institute for the coming year."
"Clocks of the gravity or pendulum type have for many years been used as precision timekeepers; but through recent refinements they have been made more accurate and reliable. Another development of the last decade is the use of the elasticity of quartz crystal oscillators as the restoring force in precision timekeepers; this has been made possible by the vacuum tube and associated electrical circuits. Both types of timekeepers are discussed in this article."
"Police organizations throughout the country rapidly are adopting the teletypewriter, the latest development in record communication. By this means alarms are typed at one point and simultaneously recorded in printed form at a large number of widely scattered stations. The engineering of facilities required for a modern police system involves the solution of many special problems."
"Views from a medical college dealing with the effects of engineering progress upon human life add another independent voice to the general discussion of benefits. This is the twelfth article in the Engineering Foundation's symposium, “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?”"
"Analysis of various circuit problems may be facilitated by the substitution of equivalent circuits which reduce the complexity and permit the replacing of magnetic coupling with simple impedance links so that the calculating board may be used for solution. In this article, general methods of solving the transformer, network, and zero phase sequence problems are presented along with useful diagrams and equations for particular cases."
"The proximity effect, usually considered as undesirable and wasteful, may be used to concentrate heating currents in predetermined strips of conducting bodies. Both the current density and shape of the strip may be so controlled as to make this method valuable in a number of heating processes."
"Field tests substantiate the results of theoretical and laboratory investigations of conductor vibration on electric power transmission lines treated in an article appearing in the July issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. Among other important findings it is shown that adequate practical protection against damage from conductor vibration can be provided by the proper use of armor rods or dampers."
"For each of a large number of technical institutions, the various electrical and related subjects in the 4-year college program of electrical engineering have been subjected to an analysis. The results of this study are presented herewith, with suggestions for improvement in existing curricula."
"Because of the relatively high voltage used and the necessity of mounting the apparatus in a limited space, many new problems of control design were encountered in the 3,000-volt d-c. suburban electrification of the Lackawanna Railroad. This article describes the construction and operation of some of the more important of the control apparatus developed, and the tests made to assure its suitability to the service for which it was designed."
"By building large capacity mercury arc rectifiers from a group of several small sections, the better efficiency, reliability, economy, and flexibility inherent in the smaller rectifiers can be retained in the larger units. Experiments on a 3,000-kw. rectifier composed of 4 750-kw. units, shows an efficiency one per cent higher than for the conventional single unit type."
"An improved voltage limiting gap for protecting electric power station apparatus has been developed, the breakdown characteristics of which may be varied over a wide range so as to conform to the characteristics of the station insulation. For the best protection, a lightning arrester in parallel with the gap is recommended."
"INTERPRETIVE abstracts of all papers which at the time of this issue are definitely scheduled for presentation at the A.I.E.E. Pacific Coast convention (Aug. 30-Sept. 2, 1932) are published herewith. In response to popular demand and within its space limitations ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING subsequently may publish certain of these papers, or technical articles based upon them."
"THE SYSTEM LOAD of the British Columbia Power Corporation, Ltd., is concerned principally with lighting, domestic power, and small industrial power. With one exception no heavy contract load is carried. Owing to the seasonal and climatic influences the load factors are inherently low, the annual load factor ranging for several years between 45 and 48 per cent, with little immediate prospect of improvement. The peak load on this system, during the middle of December, is 100,800 kw."
"THE PRODUCTION COST of electric power is made up of the power or demand cost per kilowatt and the energy cost per kilowatt-hour. The relative amount of each of these items which make up the total cost of power at the power station determines the cost at any load factor. The above segregation of the annual production cost of power is essential in determining the power rates and the economic design of the production plants of an electric system."
"THE ELECTRIFICATION of the Reading suburban service in the vicinity of Philadelphia was first placed in operation July 26, 1931. The lines now under electrical operation include 65 route miles and 157 track miles, which will be increased by January 1, 1933, to 87 route miles and 203 track miles. These lines consist of 6 branches and cover all the suburban territory north of Philadelphia, between the Schuylkill and Delaware rivers."
"ELECTRIFICATION of the Great Northern Railway's main line between Skykomish and Wenatchee, 73 route miles, was carried out in conjunction with the building of a new tunnel 7.79 miles long, and the relocation of approximately 17 route miles of troublesome track and other minor improvements, aggregating an expenditure of approximately $25,500,000. Although all of these improvements were placed in operation at about the same time, making a direct comparison of operating expenses difficult, analyses which give a reliable comparison between the cost of steam and electric operation over this part of the system have been made."
"AN ANALYSIS of the theory of the 3-wire d-c. generator using a 2-phase static balancer is presented in this paper with the particular object of explaining the very large unsymmetrical magnetizing current peaks which occur in the balancer windings. These peaks are evidence of unsymmetrical flux variation attaining high values of flux density; and as their value may be equal to, or greater than, the total unbalanced current in the neutral wire of the system, they have a pronounced effect upon the r.m.s. value of the currents, and therefore upon the heating, in the balancer phases. They also cause marked pulsations in the terminal voltages of the machine."
"CONTENTS of previous publications on metering of symmetrical components have been confined to the components of current and voltage in 3-phase 3-wire systems. This paper discusses the method of metering the positive and negative sequence power and energy in 3-phase 3-wire systems, and positive, negative, and zero sequence power and energy in 3-phase 4-wire systems. Networks are described which make it possible to meter these components simultaneously and separately. Tables are included showing the location and number of instrument transformers required for each network. Equations involving the design of the impedances of the metering systems are given."
"NONE of the methods previously available to improve transformers is capable of producing an important requirement of the power industry; namely, the high accuracy, high voltage, low ratio, bushing type current transformer operated at a high secondary burden. However, in analogy with the molecular theories of magnetization, a method of shaping magnetization curves has been advanced for securing constant permeability. Tests prove this method to be very effective and to result in a permeability which remains constant within fractions of one per cent over a wide range of induction."
"DESIGNS and factory procedure for factory assemblies of medium voltage substations which may be applied to either network or radial distribution systems are described in this paper. These substations may be divided roughly into 2 principal classes, those for serving large individual power consumers and those for general distribution to a community of varied customers. In the latter class may be included also substations in very large industrial plants and steel mills having their own generating and transmission systems."
"MECHANICAL maintenance of high voltage circuit breakers is of considerable importance to the successful operation of power systems. Experience obtained over a number of years has proved that in many ways existing equipment may be modernized and betterments provided by the operating engineer."
"DURING the summer and fall of 1931, measurements at the Harris J. Ryan Laboratory, Stanford University, Calif., extended the range of corona loss data for conductor sizes beyond those investigated during 1930. In these latter tests the 3 conductor specimens studied were a 1.125-in. hollow copper cable, a 1.49-in. hollow copper cable, and a 2.0-in. hollow aluminum cable. The losses were measured on a 3-phase line 700 ft. long. Voltages as high as 600 kv. between lines were used."
"THE IMPORTANCE of triple-harmonic voltages and currents in electrical power systems is generally recognized by engineers associated with the power and telephone industries. It is desirable to have some convenient method of representation and calculation of the triple-frequency effects in 3-phase power systems."
"THE Radio Corporation of America, through its subsidiary, R.C.A. Communications, Inc., operates a world-wide radio communication network between the United States and some 40 foreign countries. The major terminals of this world system are located at New York and San Francisco, with smaller centers at Honolulu, Manila, and Havana. The associated receiving and transmitting stations are located outside of these cities at various convenient distances."
"RADIO in communication practise generally is associated with long distances over which physical plant is economically impossible. There are very few communities of appreciable size on the North American continent that are not linked up with the various telephone networks. Exceptions are to be found in British Columbia and Alaska where the territory intervening between the isolated settlements and populated areas is of such rugged nature as to render impossible from the standpoint of economy, the use of the usual telephone facilities."
"THE next meeting of the Middle Eastern District will be held at Baltimore, Md., October 10–14, 1932, with headquarters in the Lord Baltimore Hotel. A preview of the attractions which the Baltimore meeting will offer is given by A. L. Penniman, Jr., of the Baltimore Section as follows."
"INTEREST now is centered upon the next major event of the Institute's program; namely, the Pacific Coast convention to be held this year at Vancouver, B. C, August 30 to September 2, 1932. Details of this convention were published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for July 1932, p. 518–9, and abstracts of all technical papers which at the time of publication of this issue were definitely scheduled, are given in this issue, p. 583–6."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held a t the Hotel Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio, on Wednesday, June 22, 1932, during the annual summer convention of the Institute."
"BRINGING to a close a preliminary period of several years of effort, the sectional committee on scientific and engineering symbols and abbreviations of the American Standards Association recently made a final report to that Association embracing an American Tentative Standard specifying and governing the use of abbreviations for scientific and engineering terms. This tentative standard is strictly an editorial specification listing more than 200 abbreviations considered as acceptable for use in the preparation of technical manuscripts, and setting forth 8 practical rules governing the use of such abbreviations in text matter. In this initial list of abbreviations the committee has included only the terms in most common use."
"Princpal discussions of the Cleveland convention papers are summarized herewith. The papers to which these discussions refer were abstracted in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for June 1932, p. 405–13."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL, ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. Statements in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THIS REPORT summarizes information as to telemetering and supervisory control systems in use today or commercially available in the United States, and includes a detailed discussion of the communication circuits suitable for such purposes. The form of the report is designed to make it convenient for a prospective or existing user of telemetering or supervisory control equipment to obtain information concerning the specific equipment in which he may be interested"
"HEREIN telemetering is considered to be the indicating, recording, or integrating of a quantityat a remote point by electrical translating means. Electrical or mechanical quantities normally are involved, although there are other miscellaneous applications for telemetering"
"SUPERVISORY control provides, by electrical means and over a relatively small number of conductors, for' the selective control and supervision of several remotely located units of equipment or apparatus. It is the purpose of this report to present to the prospective user information that will enable him to select the equipment which will provide the desired operating features and at the same time function satisfactorily in connection with available communication circuits"
"TELEMETERING and supervisory control systems may be operated over different types of communication circuits. It is not practicable to set down rules which will definitely determine the type of circuit to be used in a case. The choice will depend upon the characteristics of the equipment, the available types of circuits, the operating distance, cost factors, and other circumstances. The transmission and engineering considerations involved in the selection are discussed in the following paragraphs"
"CONSIDERING the rapid advances in the art, a report of this nature, summarizing the present available information concerning telemetering and supervisory control systems, undoubtedly will be out of date in a relatively short time. It is hoped that frequent contributions will be received from users of telemetering and supervisory control equipment reporting their experiences with this apparatus so that this report may be supplemented from time to time as may seem desirable. The committee will be glad to assemble and correlate any comments of this nature that may be offered."
"PUTTING into apparently successful practical application the results of several independent research efforts, a new radio tube of interesting characteristics recently has been brought into the market. Known as the “Wunderlich Tube” this device is specially designed to serve as a high quality detector which combines full-wave rectification with a stage of audio amplification and provides also, all within one tube structure, the necessary voltage for the automatic control of sensitivity"
"Electrical features of the Philadelphia Saving Fund Building include unusually high artificial illumination and complete air cooling and conditioning equipment, serving the entire building. Theinstallation involves some unique designs and new applications of engineering materials. Owners, architects, and engineers have cooperated to secure a highly modern and practical structure."
"Research of extreme importance in the field of electric welding is reviewed briefly in this progress report. Laboratory tests have demonstrated the impossibility to strike an arc with 1 2 0 volts between pure iron electrodes in an atmosphere of pure argon, an observation that may require the modification of basic conceptions of the nature of the electric arc discharge"
"To eliminate a circuitous mountain crossing which had become the “bottle neck” of the line, the Great Northern Railway built a tunnel almost 8 miles long, relocated 17 miles of track, and electrified 73 miles of line. Some of the operating experiences and savings effected in the 3 years since electrical operation was begun are outlined in this article"
"Although distribution transformers have high impulse strength compared to their normal voltage ratings, they still flash over and fail in service even when protected by arresters. Interconnecting the ground lead of the primary arrester with the transformer secondary neutral limits the voltage across the transformer insulation to that permitted by the arrester alone, and introduces no additional hazard on the low voltage circuit where secondary neutral ground resistances are low. This is the first group of articles dealing with the subject of protecting distribution systems from lightning; articles dealing with other phases of the problem will appear subsequently in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING."
"TESTS show that when a surge is applied to the primary of a distribution transformer that has a secondary ground, the isolated case will assume a low electrostatic potential above ground so that about from 80 to 95 per cent of the surge voltage will appear from primary lead to case. For simplicity in the considerations that follow, it will be assumed that the case potential under these conditions is the same as that of the secondary neutral."
"UNDER a cooperative arrangement with the Utilities Research Commission of Chicago, the engineering experiment station at Purdue University has been conducting an investigation of surge protection for distribution circuits. Many of the tests have involved the interconnection of the primary lightning arrester ground and the grounded neutral of the secondary main; it is this phase of the work which will be treated in this article."
"THERE HAS BEEN a growing conviction on the part of those closely associated with the problem of protection that in practise the present method of lightning arrester application on distribution systems involves too many uncontrollable factors. Connecting the primary arrester ground to the grounded secondary neutral appears to eliminate many of the uncontrollable factors. With such a connection the voltage between transformer windings under impulse conditions will not exceed the potential allowed by the arrester; this potential is so low that bushing flashovers or transformer failures should be practically eliminated. In proposing this the question naturally arises: Will such a connection introduce any additional hazard on the customer's premises and will it offer the advantage from the protection standpoint that apparently it should? Experience in those cases where this interconnection has been tried does not indicate any increased hazard, and the protection record seems to be far above that of the present connection."
"Progress in securing good illumination in buildings has been impeded seriously by lack of sufficient wiring capacity. The situation is reviewed in this paper in the hope of stimulating engineering interest and thus promoting wider use of practises which will insure reasonable prospect of adequacy of lighting circuits throughout the life of a structure."
"One of the latest uses for that versatile device, the grid controlled mercury arc rectifier, is to replace the commutator of an electric railway motor that will operate on either alternating or direct current. However, the rectifier eliminates not only the commutators in a locomotive equipped with these motors, but also all expensive control, switching, and reversing equipment. Experiments have shown so much promise that a 1,000-hp locomotive of this type now is being built in Switzerland."
"First electric power development on the famous Columbia River, the initial 60,000-kw Rock Island plant also is the first major low head installation on the Pacific Coast, a territory Ions famous for its high head plants, and has the largest installed capacity in adjustable-vane propeller-type wheels of any plant in the United States. Some of the project's many departures from conventional design are revealed in the accompanying text and illustrations."
"INTERPRETIVE abstracts of all papers which at the time of this issue are definitely scheduled for presentation at the A.I.E.E. Baltimore District meeting (Oct. 10–13, 1932) are published herewith. In response to popular demand and within its space limitations ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING subsequently may publish certain of these papers, or technical articles based upon them."
"THE FIRST submarine installation of oil filled cables in this country has been made. It is a 115-kv cable crossing the Columbia River just north of the city limits of Portland, Ore. The selection of a nominal transmission voltage of 110 kv was determined by an-economic analysis based on various schemes of delivering energy to load centers in the Portland area. Conditions were found favorable for laying the cable directly on the bed of the river without the digging of a trench. Three cables were laid 4 ft apart, and the shore ends above extreme low water were trenched in and covered with 4 ft of sand. Oil filled cable was found to possess many advantages for this particular service and therefore was specified instead of cable with solid insulation"
"SINCE underground power cables almost always operate under variable loading, it is desirable toestablish their allowable carrying capacities on the basis of variable loading rather than upon thebasis of some equivalent steady state loading, as is the present practise. For this purpose it is most useful to know what temperature variations will occur at any point in the cable at any time due toan abrupt change from one constant load to another. Then any load curve can be handled with sufficient accuracy by breaking it up into a series of rectangular steps, and adding with proper time intervals the successive thermal transients"
"WHEN a traveling wave on an overhead line reaches a cable, a wave of reduced voltage passes into the cable. This reduction is due to the fact that the surge impedance of a cable is less than that of an overhead line. In a traveling wave the electrostatic energy is equal to the electromagnetic energy, and the constants of a cable are such that the voltage of a traveling wave has a lower ratio to the current than in the case of a wave on an overhead line. After the wave enters the cable there are voltage and current reflections back and forth from each terminal. If the length of the original wave is great enough, there will be several superimposed waves at each point in the cable. The sum of these several waves will be dependent upon the shape of the original wave as well as upon the reflections."
"DISTRIBUTION of alternating current at low voltages does not depend primarily upon the selection of a conductor size which is thermally adequate, but depends upon the voltage regulation limits which will be satisfactory for lighting, especially when combined lighting and power loads are carried on the same circuit. Voltage regulation of a-c circuits is a function of the magnitude of the current, the power factor, and the circuit impedance. With currents of lower power factor, the inductance component of the impedance becomes the major parameter affecting the voltage regulation, and for a particular circuit and load, there is an optimum ratio of resistance to reactance. While the resistance per unit length of circuit is variable, depending only upon the physical size of the conductor, the reactance per unit length is almost independent of the physical size of the conductors, and for a single circuit with cables, can be changed only by changes in cable construction."
"PULP INSULATION is a new type of insulation that has been developed to replace the well known spirally wrapped ribbon paper insulation in certain kinds of telephone cables. It consists of a continuous pulp sleeving formed directly on the wire by a modified paper making process. The raw material for this insulation is commercial Kraft pulp and its preparatory treatment in the beaters corresponds to that given in the regular paper making process"
"DEVELOPMENT of new machines and processes for the manufacture of rubber covered wire made possible “straight line” production methods, with the elimination of process stocks and storage. However, the advantages of this method of production were reduced by the fact that the standard water test applied to the finished wire did not lend itself to this method of production. With this process a stock of wire must be kept in the test tanks for a minimum 12-hr period, and stored in racks for an additional drying period. This requires stocks of process material, and in addition, the water test equipment requires a relatively large area; also separate equipment is necessary for coiling the tested wire"
"TELEPHONE CABLES containing large groups of insulated conductors in a common sheath have been developed rapidly since 1882; previous to that time all telephone distribution was by means of overhead wire plant. The present maximum sized cables in use contain 1,818 pairs of 26-gage conductors in a sheath having an outside diameter of 2 5/7 in. The increase in the amount of cable in plant during the past decade in certain metropolitan areas, such as Baltimore, Md., and Washington, D. C, has been over 100 per cent, and at the present time the value of the cable plant represents about 25 per cent of the total plant investment in these areas."
"DELIVERY of power to Baltimore, Md., from the first unit of the Safe Harbor hydroelectric plant on the Susquehanna River, began December 7, 1931, 20 months and 7 days after active work was started on the project site — an outstanding achievement in the annals of hydroelectric construction. The drought that prevailed during the construction period and the absence of high floods were important contributary factors to the speed with which the work was executed. In an average year, the Safe Harbor plant will generate over 800,000,000 kwhr, resulting in an annual coal saving in excess of 500,000 tons."
"SAFE HARBOR development will have an ultimate capacity of 510,000 hp, a large portion of which will be available for Baltimore. During certain periods Baltimore will be dependent primarily upon this Safe Harbor power; therefore, reliability of transmission is of the utmost importance. The selection of the operating voltage was made only after a thorough investigation of the relative economic and reliability factors involved, the possibility of future interconnections, and system stability. Studies made in conjunction with the engineers of the Consolidated Gas Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore covered a comparison of 2 23-kv circuits with 6 110-kv circuits. These studies also included investigation of such problems as terminal location, 2-point versus single-point supply, the use or omission of high voltage buses, and amount of synchronous condenser capacity required. An a-c calculating board was employed to cheqk the results obtained by analytical methods."
"ENERGY from the Safe Harbor development was first received in Baltimore during December 1931, and at once took an important place in the energy supply of this city. Baltimore has both 25-cycle and 60-cycle loads, the maximum 25-cycle load recorded being 125,400 kw, the maximum 60-cycle load being 104,800 kw, and maximum simultaneous load on both frequencies being 188,200 kw. The 25-cycle frequency was originally chosen for industrial purposes and for the operation of rotary converters, although in recent years growth on this frequency has been held back. Shortly after completion of the Safe Harbor-Westport transmission line the frequency at Baltimore was changed from the former value of 621 / 2 cycles to 60 cycles, and the older frequency changers were shut down. One 30,000-kw frequency changer at Westport now takes care of all energy interchanged between these 2 systems. The characteristics and control of this frequency changer are described in the paper"
"ONE of the numerous features of more than usual interest at the Safe Harbor hydroelectric development is the application of the Kaplan type of automatically adjustable blade propeller turbine. This type of turbine is used in all 6 units of the initial installation, each unit rated at 42,500 hp under a rated head of 55 ft. Safe Harbor is the first installation in America of Kaplan type turbines of large capacity, although they have been used for low head developments in Europe since 1919"
"CABLES both for power and for telephone use, and hydroelectric developments with particular reference to the Safe Harbor plant of the Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation on the Susquehanna River, are the outstanding features of the technical program arranged for the Institute's Middle Eastern District meeting to be held in Baltimore, Md., October 10–13, 1932, with headquarters in the Lord Baltimore Hotel. Inspection trips and entertainment features round out the program and assure a worth while meeting in this most interesting city."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., on Tuesday, August 2, 1932."
"President Hoover (HM'29) has named the board of engineers which is to pass upon the engineering adequacy of projects for which applications for loans are made to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. The board of 6 members consists of Charles D. Marx, chairman; John F. Coleman, John Lyle Harrington, John H. Gregory, Herbert G. Moulton, and Major-General Lytle Brown. The chairman of the board was selected by the president and the other members were selected from a list submitted by American Engineering Council."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. STATEMENTS in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Outstanding among cable installations is the recently completed 115-kv oil filled submarine cable which crosses the Columbia River between the states of Washington and Oregon. Three single-conductor hollow-core 750,000-cir-mil cables having armor wires of hard drawn copper instead of steel, are laid directly on the bed of the river 4 ft apart, and cross 2 channels of the river, 3,460 and 1,360 ft in width. These crossings are connected by an overhead transmission line. A 33-ft maximum difference in the water level of the river necessitated the solution of a number of problems at this installation. The many interesting features are described in this article, which is divided into 4 main sections. The first section describes the general reasons for the principal decisions regarding the cable, the second describes the specifications and manufacture, the third describes the design of the field installation, and the fourth covers installation and construction methods. Each section contributes valuable information in its respective field."
"With approximately 2,500 persons suffering from electric shock annually in the United States, fatally in about 50 per cent of the cases, the problem presented is one of increasing importance. In recognition of this fact, intensive experimental work has been under way at The Johns Hopkins University for some time, supported by funds made available through the generosity of the Committee on Physiology of the Conference on Electric Shock. The accompanying article discusses the effects of injuries produced by surge discharges, and summarizes some of the more important conclusions previously published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING."
"Field tests made in California on a double circuit tower line comprising one aluminum and one copper circuit show that these different types of conductors vibrate under approximately the same conditions and at about the same frequencies, aluminum vibrating with the greater amplitude."
"A plea for careful study of the advantages to be gained through properly coordinated efforts in, and facilities for, intermediate technical education and postgraduate work."
"Two overhead conductors a few inches apart used for each phase of a transmission line circuit reduce the reactance 20 per cent or more, thus, in many cases, increasing the power rating of the line. Also current carrying capacity and corona voltage limits are increased. However, costs with this type of construction are higher than with one larger conductor per phase. In addition to describing the advantages and disadvantages of double conductor lines, formulas are given in this article for the calculation of the electrical characteristics."
"Dirt has been defined as being matter out of place; likewise noise may be regarded as misplaced sound. Sounds that are attractive musical notes under one circumstance may be distressingly annoying under other conditions. Present knowledge of noise and its effective control is summarized here."
"Transmission lines are carried into the city of Milwaukee, and through adjacent territory, on railway rights-of-way. Special towers have been developed to span the tracks in the more highly congested districts, and studies have been made to indicate which type of tower is the most economical."
"Less investment money and more buying money is needed today; one proposal to increase buying power without harming business is by the drastic taxation of great incomes. This is the thirteenth article in the Engineering Foundation's symposium “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?”"
"WELDING with gases and electricity are relatively new processes but have a background of more than a decade of scientific research. In recent years such welding has been adapted to buildings and bridges. Noise elimination, economies, and ease of application are a few reasons for adoption by the structural steel industry."
"Two mining authorities here outline some of the possibilities for electrochemical developments at or near Hoover Dam in connection with the expected availability of large quantities of cheap power and water and the known mineral deposits of the West.∗ — Editors."
"Operating experience demonstrates that lightning arresters provide sufficient protection to justify their installation on electric power distribution systems even where low arrester ground resistance cannot be obtained. Limited experience with the interconnected lightning arrester ground and grounded secondary neutral confirms the results of laboratory and field tests covered in a group of articles published on p. 633–47 of the September issue of Electrical Engineering."
"BY TAKING ADVANTAGE of knowledge gained from a 20-yr statistical research investigation of lightning protection for distribution circuits (Fig. 1), it appears possible to reduce the number of transformer troubles caused by lightning in Chicago to less than one case of trouble per year per thousand transformers in service. This article presents some of the later results of that 20-yr study."
"FOR YEARS, lightning storms in the territory served by the Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston have been accompanied by numerous blown fuses, damaged and burned out transformers, and other troubles, all of which caused many outages to customers with consequent annoyance to them as well as expense to the company. This company distributes electrical energy in 40 cities and towns, embracing 650 square miles in and about the city of Boston. (See Fig. 6.) A total of 325,000 retail customers is supplied from 10,200 Standards Publication No. 108, “Ground Connections for Electrical Systems,” by O. S. Peters, June 1918.)"
"INVESTIGATIONS of lightning troubles have been conducted on the distribution system of the Philadelphia Electric Company since 1921. Their purpose has been to determine: (1) magnitude and nature of trouble in various localities; (2) effectiveness of lightning arresters under field conditions; and (3) ways and means for improving service continuity. Up to and including 1929, studies were confined to the Philadelphia division. In 1930 they were extended to the entire system which includes 6 operating divisions having in service approximately 23,000 aerial transformers."
"One of the numerous features of more than usual interest of the Safe Harbor hydroelectric development is the use of Kaplan turbines having automatically adjustable blades. This type of turbine is used in all of the 6 units of the initial installation, each rated at 42,500 hp under a rated head of 55 ft. Engineering studies in connection with these units required the construction of a new hydraulic laboratory for testing model turbines."
"AS THE OCCASION of his first formal public appearance as president of the A.I.E.E., H. P. Charlesworth opened the 21st Pacific Coast convention of the Institute at the Hotel Vancouver, Vancouver, B. C., Tuesday morning, August 30, 1932."
"Principal discussions of the Pacific Coast convention papers are summarized herewith. The papers to which these discussions refer were abstracted in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for August 1932, p. 583–6."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"ONE construction project of sufficient urgency to require 24-hr per day activity was the building of a 13,000,000-bushel grain elevator at the Port of Albany, N. Y. Night operations were facilitated by a floodlighting installation consisting of 2 wooden towers 60 ft high supporting 6 1,000-watt General Electric floodlights at each of 2 these units were supplemented by 3 units located on the roof of a concrete mixing structure, making a total of 15 kw for the complete installation"
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. STATEMENTS in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Engineers recently have exhibited a marked increase of interest in economics and sociology, andin the relation of engineering thereto. This interest appears to have become widespread and purposeful. To assist readers in these fields, The Engineering Foundation includes in its Research Narrative No. 190, the list of books and articles given below. The Engineering Foundation states that mention of a book in this list is not intended as an endorsement, nor should omission be taken to mean disapproval, nor has the order any significance. These books listed present varieties of subjects and views"
"Recounts the life and  professional achievements of Magnus Washington Alexander, Grover Cleveland Sutton, Charles Shirley McGill, Max Kushlan, and James Andrew Shepard."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"At Safe Harbor, Pa., has been built the third major hydroelectric plant on the lower reaches of the Susquehanna river. With an ultimate installed capacity of 510,000 hp in turbines, it is destined to become one of the largest hydroelectric developments in the United States. Turbines are of the propeller type with automatically adjustable blades; they are said to be the most powerful of this type ever built. Many interesting details of the development are revealed in this article."
"Steadily pioneering uncharted paths, the continuing efforts of those directing and participating in the uncovering and correlation of new knowledge in the field of dielectrics are laying foundations for the further development of electrical apparatus. A brief insight into someof these activities is given here."
"During out-of-stop conditions on a synchronous system a state of equilibrium may be reached under which the system will neither accelerate nor retard until conditions are changed by switching operations or by removal of synchronous condensers. Proof of this theory is given for a condition where the synchronous condensers were operating at 35 cycles (70 per cent of normal), the generators at normal speed of 50 cycles, and induction motors, with a load varying as the square of speed, operating at 65 per cent of synchronous speed."
"Here is advanced a theory of luminous tube operation based upon an engineering study of the voltage and current waves associated with the discharge of electricity through neon gas."
"The Reading-Philadelphia suburban electrification has afforded a thorough trial of supervisory control equipment in actual operation. The experiences which have been secured with this equipment and which demonstrate its numerous advantages are described in this article."
"Although possessing great affinity for oxygen, aluminum has the unique property of being able to protect itself from corrosion by forming on its surface a hard, thin, and almost invisible oxid coating. Characteristics of this film and some of its many uses are described in this article."
"A new non-destructive method of testing welds by an electrical means has been developed which can be applied to welds made in the field as well as to those made in the shop. A reliability of 8 out of 9 welds tested, or 89 per cent, already has been obtained and gives good promise for the future. The method may be applied also to the finding of flaws in other homogeneous objects of magnetic materials."
"Carrier communication has been found to provide an economical means of conveying not onlytelephonic but also telegraphic information. This article describes the transmission and equipment features of a 10-channel system recently developed for 4-wire operation in a strictly telegraph plant, and includes performance characteristics showing capabilities of the system."
"A method has been developed for computing easily and accurately the transmission characteristics of a coupled tuned circuit under practical operating conditions. While especially applicable to communication circuits, the method is said to be applicable to all circuits of this general type."
"Engineering progress is said to be neither good nor bad; it may help man or hinder him, depending upon how it is used. This is the fourteenth article of the Engineering Foundation's symposium “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?”"
"Laboratory tests using water as a medium indicate that the vibration of a conductor used for transmitting electric power can be diminished materially by the use of different shapes of cable cross-sections. The investigation shows further that of the various specimens tested, cables having a triangular cross-section show the least tendency to vibrate."
"The analysis of synchronous machines previously published by Doherty and Nickle is expanded in this article to include the calculation of torque due to single-phase short-circuit. The torque is expressed as the sum of odd and even harmonic series which are simply related to those previously derived for the armature current. The effect of amortisseur windings also is taken into account. As an illustration of the application of the equations, the short circuit torque is calculated for a 100,000 kva generator."
"INCREASING popularity of modern oil burners for heating purposes has resulted in a greatly increasing demand for fuel oil. Distribution of oil suitable for heating always has been a perplexing problem for this heavy oil must be pumped from the delivery vehicle to the customer's tank, even though the tank is below the level of the vehicle."
"Special purpose transformers now can built to provide a secondary voltage wz less than 2 electrical degrees wide from sinusoidal primary voltage source. Transformers construction of such a transformer and some of its uses are described in this article."
"OF THE 4 regular sessions of the Middle Eastern District meeting held Oct. 10–13, 1932, at the Lord Baltimore Hotel in Baltimore, Md., one was given over to 4 papers dealing with power cables, one to 3 papers concerned with communication cables, and 2 to the presentation of 6 papers devoted to hydroelectric subjects including delivery and distribution of power so generated. Meeting jointly with the Institute for the first 2 (cable) sessions, was the National Research Council's committee on electrical insulation which functions under the leadership of Dr. J. B. Whitehead. This latter committee subsequently held 3 independent sessions in Maryland Hall on the Johns Hopkins campus, but otherwise participated in the general activities of the meeting. The Institute's board of directors also met in conjunction with the meeting, as reported elsewhere in this issue."
"A regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Lord Baltimore Hotel, Baltimore, Md., on Wednesday, October 12, 1932, during the Institute's Middle Eastern District meeting."
"The Alfred Noble Prize for 1932 is to be awarded to F. M. Starr (A'30) for his paper \"Equivalent Circuits - I.\" This paper was presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, NY, USA, January 25-29, 1932, and was published in the AIEE Transactions., v. 51, 1932, p. 287-98. An article based upon this paper was published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for August 1932, p. 555-558. This is the second award of the Alfred Noble Prize, the 1931 award having been made to Prof. C.T. Eddy of the Michigan College of Mining and Technology. Houghton, Mich. The prize was established in 1929 and at present consists of an award of $500 from the income of the fund contributed by engineers and others in honor of Alfred Noble, past-president of the American Society of Civil Engineers and of the Western Society of Engineers, and for the purpose of perpetuating his name and achievements. Alfred Noble, one of the most prominent civil engineers active during the 50 years preceding 1914, in addition to his technical achievements was greatly interested in the younger men of the engineering profession. The award is made to a member of any grade of either the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, or the Western Society of Engineers, for a technical paper of particular merit accepted by the publication committee of any of the foregoing societies for publication, in whole or in abstract, in any of their respective technical publications, provided the author, at the time the paper is accepted in practically its final form, is not over 30 years of age."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. STATEMENTS in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"In connection with the short notice on “European broadcasting stations,” appearing in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for September 1932, p. 666, it may interest your readers to get a few data about the equipment used to an increasing degree in European broadcasting stations."
"Many of your contributors and correspondents on the subject “Engineering and human happiness” recognize in some measure that “man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things whichhe possesseth,” and that the fundamental condition for individual happiness is an inward or spiritual state characterized by peace of mind and love for one's fellow men. As to what power can create that fundamental condition, no answer is nearer the truth than that of Doctor Pupin in your March issue. (See ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, March 1932, p. 156–7.)"
"“Engineering: A Career — A Culture” is the title of a pamphlet having as its aim the assisting of young men, their parents, and teachers in high schools and preparatory schools, to answer the all-important question : Should the vocation of engineering be selected as an individual's career? Reliable information for answering this question is needed; romantic stories or enticing propaganda will not do."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given here, with the address as it now appears on the Institute records. Any member knowing of corrections t o these addresses will kindly communicate them at once to the office of the secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The relay subcommittee of the A.I.E.E. protective devices committee herewith submits its recommendations for the protection of electrical apparatus. These recommendations are based upon a questionnaire and the 37 replies thereto from specialists in this field. Answers were interpreted and codified by a group of 20 experienced engineers particularly interested in the protection of electrical apparatus and circuits. It is hoped that this concensus of present-day opinion will be the beginning of a series that will be augmented and improved with each periodic analysis and reissue."
"Designed according to the latest ideas concerning lightning protection, the Safe Harbor-Westport 230-kv line is said to be the most heavily insulated so far constructed. Ground wire protection has been applied according to the latest theory, and special effort has been made to reduce tower to ground resistances."
"After some 40 years of service spirally wrapped paper insulation is rapidly being displaced for interoffice and subscriber loop cables, by a pulp insulation applied directly to the conductor by a process which brings the paper mill into the cable plant and combines the paper making and insulating operations into one process with the elimination of a number of costly intermediate steps. In addition, this process makes possible the use of a less expensive material as an insulating medium."
"Accurate and practical formulas for determining the number of revolutions and time required to stop a synchronous machine by dynamic braking are presented in this article, thus enabling the prediction of dynamic braking performance comparable with that of other machine characteristics. The method is new to the extent that it treats variable speed short circuits."
"Among developments of the past decade that have enhanced the usefulness of hydroelectric power are the present large size of electric utility systems, the peaked nature of their loads, advances in long distance power transmission, and various improvements in the design and construction of hydroelectric plants. In this article the value of water power is analyzed in terms of the 2 main components of the cost of steam power — capacity and energy."
"Experimental work here reported indicates that liquid globules are the chief form of metal transfer in electric arc welding. A new method of high speed “recording” produces a metal record which can be compared directly with a corresponding oscillogram."
"Improvements in the synchronous motor and its control, together with a growing recognition of its favorable first cost and operating characteristics, have resulted in its rapidly increasing application to constant speed main-rolls in metal-rolling mills, both steel and non-ferrous. A brief review of the present status of such applications, and some important controlling factors are given here."
"Simplified solutions now may be obtained for the thermal transients and oil demands in power cables, due to load variations of any complexity whatever. Mathematical and graphical aidshave been developed which greatly reduce the time and labor required for numerical work, and the theory has been verified by measurements on actual cables of the ordinary and oil filled types."
"A new electrostatic voltmeter for measuring either a-c or d-c potentials has been developed; it has a range limited only by its insulation, possesses high accuracy, and draws no current. This article describes the new meter and some of its uses."
"DIESEL electric rail car having a body of stainless hi-tensile steel construction and running on pneumatic rubber tires has recently been delivered to the Reading Company. Much fundamental development work in the building of this 47-passenger car was done by the E. G. Budd Manufacturing Company, involving the forming and handling of thin sheets of steel, and requiring considerable research into methods of welding. As the result of this work the weight of a self-propelled car of a given seating capacity has been reduced to 33 per cent of the weight of the accepted passenger coach having no power as used on Class I roads"
"Too great success in cornering our mediums of production is considered responsible by many for our present industrial instability; the result is usury on labor. This is the fifteenth article in the Engineering Foundation's symposium “Has Man Benefited by Engineering Progress?”"
"Design of telephone facilities for large buildings requires the careful consideration of a large number of factors to insure that the telephone plant shall be used with the maximum degree of efficiency. The factors which must be considered are outlined in this article, which is a portion of the authors' complete paper on the general subject of cables for telephone distribution."
"Here is given a description of a railway dynamotor-control generator set designed for compactness and fitted with centrifugal air cleaning device, as used on cars for the Lackawanna electrification."
"Power cable fault locating is at times difficult due to a high initial fault resistance or an increase of resistance during the time locating is in progress. A method using a constant current transformer for reducing high initial resistance and preventing its increase, in connection with a short circuiting switch to generate signals for locating the fault, is discussed in this article. A practical assembly of this type of apparatus for cable fault locating is described and operating directions are included."
"PLANS for the technical program as tentatively arranged for the coming winter convention of the Institute to be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., January 23–27, 1933, will convince most electrical engineers that more than the usual number of papers which are of wide interest will be presented. The technical program committee has used great care in the selection of papers which deal with problems most important to the electrical industry at the present time."
"AUTHORS who plan to present papers before the Institute during the calendar year 1933, those who have presented papers during 1932, and others who may wish to submit papers for prizes, would do well to bear in mind that such papers are eligible for consideration for Institute prizes. These awards are made each spring for the preceding calendar year, and fall into 2 main classes, national and District prizes."
"PRINCIPAL discussions of the Baltimore Meeting papers are summarized herewith. The papers to which these discussions refer were abstracted in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for September 1932, p. 659–62. Only discussion submitted in writing in accordance with governing A.I.E.E. rules is summarized. Complete discussion, together with all approved papers, will be published in the TRANSACTIONS."
"CONSIDERABLE experience in means for alleviating unemployment and providing relief to the more destitute members of the engineering profession was gained during the winter 1931–32 by many Sections of the Institute. This experience is proving of great assistance in the formulating of plans for relief to engineers during the coming winter, and should make the 1932–33 efforts even more effective than those of last winter. A summary of the activities of some of the Institute's Sections during the past winter was given in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for November 1932, p. 809–13."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. STATEMENTS in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given here, with the address as it now appears on the Institute records. Any member knowing of corrections t o these addresses will kindly communicate them at once to the office of the secretary."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"An historical research into the accomplishments of a great scientist, such as Henry, in cludes two main parts. There is first the proof, based upon the record, that he accomplished certain things. This being an affirmative proof can be quite definite. There is a second step, however, which is of interest in the a ppraisal of his work, namely, showing in respect to what items he was first. This means in effect proving that in respect to these items no one anticipated him. Such an assertion, being a universal negative, cannot be absolutely proved, but can, of course, by sufficient work be shown to be probable in a high degree."
"An address presented at the Meeting of the National Academy of Sciences, April 25, 1932, at Washington, D. C. in commemoration of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Electrical Discoveries of Joseph Henry. The author expresses his appreciation of the researches of Dr. Harold S. Osborne and Mr. A. M. Dowling in establishing many of the facts upon which this address is based, and of other assistance in its preparation. This research developed many facts of interest and its results are separately published as a supplement to this issue of the Bell System Technical Journal."
"Technique is described permitting the formation of cæsium-oxygen-silver photoelectric cells under controlled conditions. It is shown that the essential conditions are a quantitative control of the degree of oxidation of the silver cathode base and the amount of cæsium generated together with a regulation of the amount of chemical interaction by a control of the time and temperature of the heat treatment. Variations in sensitivity to integral light at 2,710∘ K. color temperature are shown as a function of the initial amounts of oxygen and cæsium and the time of heat treatment. Small amounts of oxygen were permitted to react with the standard cathode surface. The sensitivity of the cathode fell but recovered due to the diffusion of free cæsium to the surface from the underlying material. The effects are shown in relation to the integral sensitivity and the spectral response from 6,000 Â. to 10,000 Â. The effects of depositing minute amounts of free cæsium upon the standard cathode surface are also shown in relation to the spectral response. The active surface of the cathode appears to be a film of free cæsium of atomic dimensions adsorbed upon a matrix of cæsium oxide and silver containing free cæsium and a small amount of silver oxide. The spectral characteristics of the photoelectric response appear to depend largely upon the thickness of the surface film of free cæsium. This film thickness is determined by the cæsium concentration in the underlying matrix and is maintained by a diffusion equilibrium."
"This paper deals with the problems of joining long-distance radio telephone transmission paths to the ordinary telephone plant. It gives the possibilities and limitations of various methods of two-way operation of such circuits where the radio channels employ either long or short waves. It also describes the special terminal apparatus for switching the transmission paths under control of voice currents and lists the advantages of using voice-operated devices."
"A general study of the magnetic properties of magnet steels and permanent magnets embraces a number of related problems. Of chief interest to the designer of magnets is the problem of determining the relationship between the open-circuit remanence of a permanent magnet and the various factors which determine its value. These factors include the magnetic characteristics or properties of the steel, as displayed by its hysteresis loop, and the shape and dimensions of the magnet. Of interest to the manufacturer of magnet steel are the questions of how chemical composition, melting practise. and rolling practise affect the magnetic and mechanical properties of the steel. The manufacturer of magnets is inte rested in the effect of the necessary manufacturing operations, such as heating for hot forming and annealing to increase machinability, upon the flux obtainable in the finished magnet; on the tendency of the stee l to warp and crack upon quenching; and on the proper hardening treatment to use."
"An apparatus is described whereby acoustic impedances may be measured in terms of a known acoustic impedance and the complex ratios of two electrical potentiometer readings to a third. As a known impedance, there is chosen the reactance of a closed tube of uniform bore which is an eighth wave-length long. The electrical readings are obtained by balancing the amplified output of a condenser transmitter against the electrical input of the source of sound. The condenser transmitter picks up the acoustic pressure at the junction of the sound-source and the attached impedance. A balance is made for each of three successively attached impedances: (1) a closed tube an eighth wave-length long, (2) a rigid closure of the sound-source, and (3) the impedance to be measured. The unknown acoustic impedance Z is then calculated in terms of the known acoustic impedance Z0 by means of the equation $Z = Z_{0} {z_{1}-z_{2}\\over z_{2}\\over z_{3}-z_{2}},$ where z1, z2 and z3 are, respectively, the three electrical impedance settings of the potentiometer. As indicated by this equation, the constants of the electrical circuit are involved only as ratios, so that the response characteristics of the source of the sound, condenser transmitter and amplifiers (provided they are invariable) do not affect the measurement. Illustrations are given of impedance measurements on a closed tube of uniform bore, a conical horn, an exponential horn, an “infinite” tube, and a hole in an “infinite” wall."
"The requirements imposed on transmission lines by short-wave radio systems are discussed, and the difference in the requirements for transmitting and receiving purposes is emphasized. Various line types are discussed, particular attention being given to concentric tube lines and balanced two-wire lines. The concentric tube line is particularly valuable in receiving stations where great directional discrimination is involved and low noise and static pick-up is required. Excellent agreement between calculations and measurements is found for the high-frequency resistance of concentric lines, using the asymptotic skin effect formula of Russell. Other losses in correctly designed concentric tube lines are found to be negligible. Measured losses in two-wire lines are found to be greater than losses predicted by the asymptotic skin effect formula owing, in part, to losses brought about by unbalanced currents. Practical aspects of line construction such as joints, insulation, and provision for expansion with increasing temperature are discussed. Some difficulties encountered in transmission line practice, such as losses due to radiation, reflections from irregularities, effects of weather, and spurious couplings between antenna and line are discussed."
"It has been shown recently that microphones and contiguous amplifiers distort the sound field in which they are placed by reason of their size and the cavity external to the diaphragm of the microphone. For frequencies such that the size is large compared to the wave-length of perpendicularly incident sound, reflection causes the actuating pressure to be double that which would exist in the undisturbed field. If the direction of the incident sound be along the plane of the diaphragm, the increase of pressure due to reflection is not as great; but there may be a substantial reduction in effective pressure due to differences in phase across the diaphragm. In addition, cavity resonance produces an increase of pressure at frequencies usually within the working range of the microphone. This paper describes a laboratory model of a Wente-type condenser microphone of high efficiency and an associated coupling amplifier which are of such small size that reflection and phase-difference effects are of negligible importance within the audible frequency range; while the cavity is so proportioned that its resonance effect is an aid rather than a detriment to uniformity of response in a constant sound field."
"Rapid development of air transportation in this country has continued through the past few years and today established routes connect nearly all important cities. The route mileage of the airways in the United States as shown in Fig. 1 totals over 30,000 miles. Regularly scheduled transport service is given on practically all of these routes and considerable use of them is also made by military and private planes. Statistics relating to service of air transport cornpanies seem particularly significant. The United States Department of Commerce reported approximately 12,800,000 miles flown in passenger, mail and express service on domestic scheduled lines in 1931, an increase of 35 percent over the preceding year and more than a fourfold increase since 1928. In the same three-year period passengers carried increased ninefold, reaching a total of around 470,000 in 1931. Along with this growth safety has been increased as indicated by the respective 1928 and 1931 reports of 250,000 and 750,000 miles flown peraccident. Reasonable regularity of schedules on air transport lines also has been maintained, the ratio of miles actually flown to scheduled miles last year being in the order of 92 percent."
"In January, 1932, a series of seven lectu res by representatives of the Bell Telephone System was given before the Lowell Institute of Boston, Massachusetts. The genera l title of the series was “The Application of Science in Electrical Communication.”"
"The rapid development of large telephone networks giving a high grade of service between large numbers of telephones in continental areas has laid the foundation for the development of world-wide telephone service. Beginning in 1927 with the establishment of the first commercial telephone circuit between Europe and North America, intercontinental telephone service has, during the past five years, extended rapidly, and with further extensions already definitely planned, will embrace all of the continents and make possible the connection together of practically any two telephones in the world. Up to the present time radio has been used to overcome the peculiar technical obstacles in the provision of intercontinental circuits. Two portions of the radio spectrum are suitable for this purpose, the long wave providing only a few circuits and the short wave providing for possibly several hundred circuits in the world as a whole. Plans have already been made for the important route between Europe and North America to supplement these with a telephone cable and the use of wire lines for intercontinental routes may become more important in the future. The full development of intercontinental telephony is affected by a number of general difficulties. Of these the differences in time between different parts of the earth's surface are inherent. Differences in language both affect the ease with which customers can converse over the telephone, and complicate the operating problem. Furthermore, some of the differences in operating and commercial practices in the telephone networks of different continents which have in the past developed largely independently of each other, require consideration in the building up of intercontinental services. The full development of intercontinental telephony is dependent upon the continued progress in working out these problems and in an extension of the brilliant scientific and engineering achievements which have made possible the present services. It is to be expected that with the further growth of intercontinental service it will be found desirable in the future to adopt a general world-wide plan for the routing of intercontinental messages somewhat comparable to the plans for continental telephone service already under consideration or in use. While political considerations may temporarily affect the form of the world-wide network, ultimately the requirements of economy and good service will no doubt be determining factors in such a plan. It is to be hoped that the continued closer knitting together of the nations and races of the world by intercontinental telephone circuits will be a great contribution to international friendship and good will. The authors wish to acknowledge their indebtedness to a number of telephone administrations who have provided them with information regarding present and proposed intercontinental services, supplementing the data previously published. They have also drawn freely on the material presented in the bibliography of Appendix 2, and this material has been of assistance. The authors also express appreciation of the assistance given them by a number of their associates in the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, particularly Messrs. O. B. Blackwell, A. B. Clark, L. Espenschied, O. T. Laube, H. S. Osborne and H. E. Shreeve."
"A new submarine cable has recently been laid between Key West and Havana in order to furnish more telephone facilities between the United States and Cuba. The cable has a single central conductor with concentric tape return and employs the newly developed material paragutta for insulation. A carrier telephone system provides three telephone channels. As ultimately developed a still greater number of facilities may be made available over the cable."
"The development of a cellulose acetate lacquer treatment for textile insulated wire has made available an improved type of wire for telephone central office use. The desired improvement in electrical characteristics is obtained when the textile fibers are laid down and covered by the cellulose acetate film. The accompanying graphs show the comparative electrical characteristics at various humidities, of wires insulated with commercial and purified cotton and silk servings, before and after treatment with cellulose acetate lacquer."
"Equipment was developed and a plant constructed for coating textile insulated wire with a film of cellulose acetate. The wire is treated at a speed of 240 feet per minute. Recovery of more than 85 per cent of the acetone used as a solvent is effected with carbon adsorbers. Thorough precautions have been taken to prevent fire and explosion and to render them harmless if they should occur."
"A number of factors contribute to the difficulties involved in the design of a telephone handset which gives as good service performance as a deskstand. The handset transmitter, for example, not only is used in a wider range of positions but also is moved much more frequently, so that wider variations are experienced in its characteristics. Further difficulties are introduced by the close physical connection of the receiver and transmitter, in that “howling” tends to be set up. The handset has been developed so that it overcomes all these difficulties and is interchangeable with the deskstand in existing telephone plant without important reaction on either transmission or signaling performance."
"Electric wave filters are used extensively in carrier telephone and telegraph systems. In order that such systems may be operated efficiently and economically, the requirements placed on the filters they employ are occasionally so severe in nature that new methods in design or construction must be developed to make the commercial production of the filters possible. The band filters for the Type “C” Carrier Telephone System are cases in point. This paper sets forth the requirements which were met in the design of the filters for this system, and describes a new manufacturing adjustment made necessary by these requirements. This feature consists essentially of an inductance continuously variable over a small range above and below its nominal value; the adjustment is not used to set the coil inductance at its specified value, but to locate correctly the series or parallel resonance of the mesh of which the coil is a part. The bridge and associated apparatus developed to facilitate this adjustment are also described."
"The theory of cathode sputtering with the advantages and limitations in the application of this process is discussed, followed by a description of the commercial equipment and methods for applying gold electrode surfaces to diaphragms of certain types of microphones. By proper design of the vacuum chamber and the inside parts, a fairly uniform discharge current density and a uniform deposit is obtained. A constant sputtering rate is produced by the use of a bleeder valve which maintains a proper residual pressure. Adherence and continuity are obtained by the use of a special cleaning process. An extensive bibliography on cathode sputtering is included."
"An artificial voice and ear have been developed which are sufficiently close simulations of the real voice and ear in their principal physical attributes to justify their use in both shop and laboratory tests of telephone transmitters and receivers. The artificial voice and ear have certain advantages in that they can be exactly specified and reproduced and can be used in determining physical characteristics of instruments which are difficult or impossible to obtain with real voices and ears."
"A New High Vamcuum System1 J. A. Becker and E. K. Jaycox. A new high vacuum pumping system is described in which oil is used in a diffusion type pump, and a trap containing activat ed cocoanut charcoal repl aces the usual liquid air trap. The system is capable of attaining a pressure of 2 × 10−8 mm. Hg. A high degree of vacuum can be attained at least as quickly as with a mercury diffusion pump and liquid air trap. The system is especially adapted to maintaining a low pressure for several days in apparatus which cannot conve niently be sealed off from the pumps."
"H. A. Affel, S.B. in Electrical Engineering, Massachu setts Institute of Technology, 1914; Research Assistant in Electrical Engineering, 1914–16. Engineering Department and the Department of Development and Research, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, 1916–. Mr. Affel has been engaged chiefly in development work connected with carrier telephone and telegraph systems."
"The cathode ray oscillograph, since its invention by Braun, has developed along three lines. The major types of tubes are the high voltage tubes with a fluorescent screen, the high voltage tubes with internal photographic equipment, and the low voltage tubes. This paper follows the structural development of commercial tubes. The operation of the tubes is discussed, from the standpoint of both theory and practice, with particular reference to the low voltage type of tube. Numerous examples are given of the applications of the tubes to problems in science and engineering."
"A simple theoretical development of the action of a vacuum tube and its associated circuit when used as a Class B or Class C amplifier is given. An expression for the power output is obtained and the conditions for maximum outputs are indicated. The way in which the tuned plate circuit filters out the harmonics in the pulsating plate current wave is illustrated by an hypothetical example. A set of dynamic output current characteristics is developed graphically from a set of static characteristics. The Class B dynamic curves are found to give a better approximation to a straight line than the Class C curves because of a reversed curvature which appears at the lower ends. It is pointed out that the screen grid tube should function similarly to a high μ three-element tube in this type of operation. Experimental dynamic characteristics of a three-element tube, Western Electric 251-A, and of a screen grid tube, Western Electric 278-A, of identical dimensions are shown which verify the theoretical results. The screen grid tube gives about the same output and efficiency as the three-element tube, but its dynamic characteristic tends to bend more rapidly at the upper end."
"Until comparatively recent years the telephone engineer gave little attention to transmission time in his problems. For all practical purposes he could assume that speech was transmitted instantly between the ends of telephone circuits. The rapid extension of the distances over which commercial telephony is given and the introduction of long telephone cables has changed the situation and has introduced time problems in telephone transmission which are of large technical interest and difficulty. As a result, time problems are receiving more consideration in the technical papers published in recent years on transmission. The accompanying bibliography lists a considerable number of such papers. There seems to be no paper, however, giving a general overall picture of this subject. The present paper gives briefly such a picture."
"Summary — The manner in which the frequency of vacuum tube oscillators depends upon the operating voltages is discussed. The theory of the dependence is derived and is shown to indicate methods of causing the frequency to be independent of the operating voltages. These methods are applied in detail to the more commonly used oscillator circuits. Experimental data are cited which show the degree of frequency stability which may be expected as a result of application of the methods outlined in the theory, and also show that the best adjustment is in substantial agreement with that predicted by theory. With a carefully built and adjusted oscillator the effects of normal variations in the operating voltages are negligible in comparison with the effects of temperature variations resulting from the changed operating currents. Methods of preventing these latter effects are not discussed in the present paper. The appendix contains an analysis of the conditions under which the performance of an oscillator may be represented by the use of linear circuit equations."
"The plasticity of a number of solders at wiping temperatures has been determined by compression tests between parallel plates. The character of the flow is found to be that corresponding to a linear relation between shearing stress and a fractional power of the velocity gradient. This corresponds approximately to a relation between rate of compression (dh/dt) and sample height (h) given by the equation: dh/dt = khb, in which k and b are constants, of which b is independent of the test conditions. For viscous materials b = 5.0; for most solders b is greater than 5.0, and increasing values of b are associated with lower temperature gradients of plasticity. It is shown that a solder must have a low temperature gradient of plasticity in order to be properly wiped, and that determination of the value of b by means of a plasticity test can therefore be used to evaluate the working properties of a solder. A number of factors upon which the plasticity of wiping solders and the porosity of wiped joints may depend have been investigated. In particular, it is shown that segregation is not responsible for porosity, but that the latter may be dependent upon the particle size of the solid phase at wiping temperatures. The relation of particle size to the wetting power of the liquid phase is discussed."
"Regeneration or feed-back is of considerable importance in many applications of vacuum tubes. The most obvious example is that of vacuum tube oscillators, where the feed-back is carried beyond the singing point. Another application is the 21-circuit test of balance, in which the current due to the unbalance between two impedances is fed back, the gain being increased until singing occurs. Still other applications are cases where portions of the output current of amplifiers are fed back to the input either unintentionally or by design. For the purpose of investigating the stability of such devices they may be looked on as amplifiers whose output is connected to the input through a transducer. This paper deals with the theory of stability of such systems."
"“Cosmic rays” is the name of the ultimate cause which maintains that part of the ionization of the air which cannot be ascribed to the rays of radio active substances on earth nor to any other known agency. The measurement of this residue, the discrimination between it and that part of the ionization which is due to familiar rays, is the first problem of cosmic-ray research. Second comes the problem of learning, from measurements made at as many places and under as many conditions as possible, the nature of the mysterious ionizing agent. One naturally begins by assuming it to be like in kind to one or another of the known types of ionizing rays, but different in quality; e.g. to consist of electrons faster than any known electrons, or photons of greater energy and lesser wave-length than any known photons. It is not yet certain whether one of these hypotheses will fit, or rays of some new type must be imagined. The direct measurements of ionization are supplemented by observations of material particles of evidently enormous energy which dart across the atmosphere in straight paths leaving trains of ions behind. On the whole it seems highly probable that these particles, or those (if such there be) from which they receive their energy, come to the earth from outer space; and the energy which they bear is so great, that its source must be some process not yet known."
"The Emission of Secondary Electrons from Tungsten1) A. J. Ahear. An apparatus is described for inves tigating critical potentials in the emission of secondary elec trons from tungsten. Xleasu rements on the velocity distribution in the primary beam show that secondary electrons from the electron gun are absent. Tube characteristics which might introduce spurious critical poten tials in the secondary emission from tun gsten a ppear to be absent. By heat treating the tungsten and cleaning up residual gases, maxima and critical slope changes were developed below 40 vo lts. With sensitive methods of measuring and plotting the data, critical potentials within the range from 40 to 5.00. volts were observed only at the following uncorrected voltages : 70, 108, 208, 297 volts. All but the 70-volt effect disappeared eventually. after heat treatments of the tungsten target. Thus when the tungsten surface is most free from contamination, critical potentials persisted only at the following uncorrected voltages : maxima at about 3.5 and 8 volts and slope in creases at 24, 33 and 70 volts. The phenomen a may be associated with the diffraction of electrons or the production and absorption of characteristic soft x-rays. Regardless of the mechanism operating at the critical potentials, their decrease or elimination beyond 40 volts points strongly to effects of surface contamination rather than to characteristics of tungsten."
"O. B. Blackwell, B.S. in Electrical Engineering, Massachusetts In stitute of Technology. After graduation, he entered the Engineering Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and in 1919 was made Transmission Development Engineer. Mr. Blackwell has general supervision of transmission developments and has been prominently associated with progress in long distance wire and radio telephony."
"This paper first very briefly reviews the history of long distance telephone cables in the United States. A statement is then given of the basis of the electrical design of present day cables, followed by a discussion of the standards applied to cable circuits and the application of cables to the telephone needs of the country. While the present system is satisfactory for the circuits now used in cable up to distances of 1800 miles (3000 kilometers) or more, it would not be satisfactory for the much greater distances expected for the future, both for continental and intercontinental service. The paper closes with a brief account of the progress which has been made in the development of a cable carrier telephone system which is expected to be satisfactory for any distances which may in the future be spanned by telephone circuits in cable. The authors wish to acknowledge their appreciation of the assistance given them by a number of their associates in the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, particularly Messrs. L. G. Abraham and R. M. Goetchius."
"An attempt is made in this article to trace the growth of our ideas regarding the electron from their inception less than a hundred years ago to the present day. The discussion begins with a consideration of the vague and tentative deductions concerning an ultimate electrical charge which became possible when Faraday revealed the laws of electrolytic conduction; it touches upon the clarification of the conception of the electron as a charged particle capable of independent existence and subject to the laws of classical electrodynamics which was effected at the close of the last century and the beginning of the present one by the researches of J. J. Thomson and others; it indicates the difficulties in which this conception became involved, and the attempts made by Planck, Bohr and others to extricate it from them. The latter part of the paper is devoted to the amplified conception of the electron which has been developed during the last decade — a conception in which electrons are recognized as having, in different circumstances, the properties of both waves and particles."
"Laplace has given us, in the Theorie Analytique des Probabilites, Book I, Part II, Chapter I, a method of approximating by means of series to the value of a definite integral of the type"
"This is an account of the behavior of conducting gases subjected to high-frequency electrostatic fields — behavior which can be interpreted, in many cases with striking success, by supposing that the free electrons wandering in the gas are set into motion by the field, and oscillate and drift according to laws which can be derived from our knowledge of the response of free electrons to steady fields. When a constant magnetic field coexists with the high-frequency forces, the phenomena become more complicated, but remain predictable. There are also peculiar phenomena indicating that the electrons in a conductive gas have certain natural frequencies of oscillation. Applications are made to the absorption of radio-frequency waves in ionized gases."
"This article deals with the use of transformer type of coupling circuits in high-frequency amplifiers to transmit efficiently voltages or currents between certain limiting frequencies while attenuating those above and below the limiting frequencies. The similarity of these coupling circuits to band-pass filters is shown and the conditions to be satisfied in order that they may act as such are covered. Means of obtaining uniformly high amplification over relatively wide frequency bands are explained. Typical conditions under which these coupling circuits have been employed and factors affecting their performance are discussed."
"The Manufacture of Rubber-Covered Wires for Telephone Installations.1 S. E. Brillhart. Rubber-insulated wires are extensively used by th e telephone companies in connecting up appara tus and equipment which is exposed to varying climatic conditions in the same fashion in which rubber-covered wires are employed by ot her electrical industries. In order to meet all size, strength, and electrical requirements the various wires available for use must differ widely from one another and from commercial rubber-insulated wires, in the character of insulation with which they are covered, as well as the properties of the conductors."
"A. J. Christopher, B.S. in E.E., Carnegie Inst itute of Technology, 1921; Engineering Department, Western Electric Company, 192–25; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. Mr. Christopher has been engaged in voice and carrier frequency transformer design and more recently concerned with the development of repeating, retardation, and induction coils."
"Many speakers find it difficult to use the conventional type of microphone, because of the restrictions that it imposes upon their freedom of movement. A microphone, known as the lapel microphone, designed to be attached to the speaker's clothing, has been developed for overcoming these limitations. — The vibratory structure of the lapel microphone is designed to have low mass and stiffness, and to resonate at a comparatively high frequency. The resilient support of the diaphragm adds sufficient mechanical resistance to prevent the occurrence of a prominent peak in the response at the resonance frequency. Means are provided for reducing extraneous noise to a minimum. A part of the sound reaching the. microphone, due to body vibration, is rich in low frequencies and must be attenuated, otherwise the quality of transmission will be unnatural. This attenuation is accomplished in the coupling transformer, which, together with the apparatus required for suppressing clicks, for indicating when the circuit is in operation, etc., is mounted in a control cabinet. A flexible cord connects the microphone to this cabinet. — It is expected that the lapel microphone will find application in theaters, churches, convention halls, lecture and banquet rooms, and the like, where public address systems are now employed. It also can be applied in connection with other sound recording and reproducing equipment where the background noise, characteristic of carbon microphones, is not a limiting factor."
"A description is given of a talking picture equipment suitable for application in the non-theatrical field. The factors influencing the selection of a satisfactory form of film are pointed out, and a short review is presented of the problem involved in obtaining a sound record of good quality on this film."
"The development of sound on 16 mm. film presents technical problems that have resulted in the proposal of many unconventional arrangements of sound track and picture as possible solutions. Each has for its object a simplification of this development problem in one or more respects, and each makes some sacrifice of cost either in the film itself, the machinery for projection, or in the machinery and methods of preparing the prints. — The solution here described avoids these cost penalties by employing standard 16 mm. film with a sound track and picture arrangement entirely comparable with the conventional 35 mm. release prints except for photographic reduction of both picture and sound track in the proper proportion. These reduction prints are made directly from 35 mm. negatives that have not been modified in any particular. — Three groups of sound-on-film projectors for use with this film have been developed. These include a complete home model, combining radio, phonograph, sound-on-disk. sound-on-film, and silent projection; a schoolroom model arranged for sound and silent film only, and an industrial model intended only for sound-film projection, which is arranged in a portable carrying case. All these machines are self-threading."
"This paper describes a portable sound-on-disk reproducing system developed for the Western Electric Company by Bell Telephone Laboratories. This system has been developed to permit the introduction of the sound picture into fields not readily reached by theater reproducing systems, e. g., the classroom and the lecture hall. Pictures are projected from 16 millimeter film at the rate of 24 frames per second in synchronism with the reproduction of sound from a 33 1/3 rpm. disk record. — Two main units make up the system, a portable projector-turntable unit and a portable amplifier-loud speaker unit. The projector head, turntable, electrical reproducer, and driving mechanism are comprised in the portable projector-turntable unit. The electrical energy delivered by the reproducer is delivered to the portable amplifier- loud speaker unit, which serves to amplify and convert it into sufficient acoustical energy for instructing or entertaining audiences of several hundred persons. The system derives its power from the usual house-lighting circuits."
"The quality of reproduction of sound in a theater must be good at all times, and sound outages must be kept to a minimum. This can be accomplished only by having the equipment checked carefully and periodically by engineers specially qualified and equipped for such work. Certain parts of sound equipment are subject to wear. The parts most likely to fail are carefully inspected for danger signs by the engineer on each of his visits. Other parts, critical in adjustment, are readjusted on each visit to maintain the quality of sound at the high standard set by the manufacturer and demanded by the public. — RCA Photophone, Inc., has devised special appliances and tools to facilitate the adjustment of sound reproducing equipment. This paper describes the special test reel and methods used to maintain the sound quality at the required high standards."
"The contrasting nature of the points of view held by motion picture engineers and managers of theaters, as regards the ultimate presentation of entertainment, is discussed. The fact that the ultimate objective of both engineers and theater managers is identical, in providing a contribution to what is commonly called showmanship, is emphasized; and the especially urgent need of appreciation of this conception in times like these is pointed out. The engineer regards motion picture technology as an end, whereas the manager regards it as the means to that end. Where the end is a common one, it is clear that the two contrasting points of view can not be compatible; and it is the appreciation of this fact that will lead ultimately to a form of cooperation that will be greatly productive of results in the future."
"The many problems pertaining to the equipment of a motion picture theater are discussed, and the author offers the suggestion that the S. M. P. E. organize and maintain a service bureau to which theater owners and managers may address the many problems encountered in operating their theaters, with a view of receiving clear and intelligent answers unbiased or prejudiced by manufacturer's influence. Among the problems referred to are those connected with sound reproducing apparatus, screens, ventilation, booth equipment, film mutilation, size of picture, acoustics, care of film, savings of electrical power, seating, etc."
"Improvements have been made in the recording of sound on film, and in the reproduction of sound from film, that have resulted in an extension of both the frequency and the volume ranges. the low-frequency range has been extended by using a loud speaker unit that responds well at frequencies from go to 10,000 cycles per second. the high-frequency range has been extended by using a microphone of the ribbon type and by reducing the attenuation of the film. by using a narrower recording slit and a large mirror galvanometer the high-frequency response has been improved. the system for reducing ground noise has been simplified and made more effective."
"This paper, presented separately during the symposium on the release print, at the Spring, 1032, Convention at Washington, D. C., is part of the report of the Projection Practice Committee, the main portion of which was published in the August, 1932, Journal. It was deemed advisable, however, to present this particular section of the report at the Release Print Session in order that it might receive the fullest attention and discussion together with related problems of production and distribution branches of the industry. The present paper deals with the problems encountered by the theaters in relation to (a) the processing of film, (b) buckling of film, (c) dense positive prints, (d) film cutting for change-overs, (e) uniformity of volume level of reproduction, and (f) standard release print markings."
"The release print problems of the distributor are divided into (1) general, or those common to all distributors; and (2) special problems, those that result from endeavors to assure reproduction on the screen of the original qualities recorded on the negative in the studio. — General problems are divided into processing difficulties, drying and brittleness of film, consolidation of reels, film cutting operations in the projection room, worn sprocket teeth, and methods of cleaning and splicing film. the special problems are those that give rise to special operations of maintenance, inspection, and repair of film by exchanges."
"The necessity of properly processing prints prior to projection and the conditions to be fulfilled by such processing are briefly described. the paper, in addition, points out the various causes of the damage sustained by film during projection, and concludes with a statement of the results to be expected from any processing or special treatment that might be applied to the film."
"In the development of visual education the choice of material, planning of sequences, photography, laboratory work, and editing of the finished product receive the most careful attention, but the projection of the finished product is very much neglected. — The inevitable result is eye-strain, either severe or slight. the straining of eyes already taxed by constant study may easily lead to serious results. a slight strain may either induce drowsiness or otherwise retard the mental processes so that much of, if not all, the advantage of the visual method of presentation may be nullified. — The conditions for projection free from eye-strain are the same for educational as for theatrical projection, but conditions and limitations peculiar to the classroom, such as the shape and size of the rooms, lighting arrangements, lack of beam-power of the projectors necessitating the use of specular or semispecular screens, and the short projection and viewing distances frequently encountered assign a major importance to factors that are negligible in theatrical projection. — Particularly is this true of the projection of opaque objects where all these factors are evident simultaneously and all in large degree. two experimental opaque object projectors are described, one of moderately high power and the other of extremely high power. two opaque and five translucent screens are analyzed."
"The application of rectifier power supply units for furnishing the low voltage requirements of sound reproducing equipment demands careful consideration of the filter circuit characteristics as well as those of the sound reproducing equipment. — Permissible ripple voltages are discussed in reference to the sound reproducing equipment in its present form. consideration is also given to the possibility of future improvements of the sound equipment that might increase the effect on the system of the a-c. component from the rectifier filter sufficiently to interfere with sound reproduction. the factors governing load regulation of rectifiers and filters are treated with respect to allowable voltage variation under all operating conditions. — Output voltage characteristics are influenced by such variables as ambient and operating temperatures, manufacturing tolerances, and line resistance variations of each particular installation. this output voltage must be maintained within the range of the current regulating devices in the sound reproducing equipment. description is given of a rectifier power supply unit, covering the electrical and mechanical design, shielding and installation problems."
"Information Concerning the motion picture industry is published in a great many different journals issued by various societies and companies in this country and abroad. this information has been classified into two divisions, according as it pertains to the professional or to the amateur. publications relating to the former group have been subdivided into four classes: (1) general technical publications, (2) publications related to motion picture production, (3) publications pertaining to exhibition of motion pictures, and (4) miscellaneous publications. amateur publications have been further classified in relation to the dealer and to the customer or user. publications in each of these groups are listed, giving a brief digest, when possible, of the nature of the issue, the frequency of its appearance, the address of the publisher, and the annual subscription. a classified bibliography of books on engineering and business aspects of the industry is included."
"In pursuing its work devoted to the recommendation of 16-mm. sound film dimensional standards, a sub-committee appointed for the purpose communicated with all of the manufacturers and individual research workers who were thought to be interested in the subject. Specifically, these persons were requested to submit their recommendations as regards the dimensions of the film and the location of the sound track. The recommendations thus received from those who were not officially represented on the sub-committee were included among the data that were considered at the several meetings"
"Copies of the publications listed here may be obtained free of charge by addressing a request to the manufacturer named. Manufacturers are requested to send new publications to the General Office of the Society immediately upon issue."
"The light valve has been used very widely as the modulating device in systems of film sound recording. In this paper the principles of operation of the light valve are discussed, and those engineering factors which prescribe limitations on performance and indicate operating advantages are described in detail. The type of distortion which results when a light valve is overloaded is depicted both for single-plane and two-plane valves. Finally, a new type of light valve having advantages from the standpoints of weight, size, and stability of operation is described."
"The variation of photographic sensitivity (as measured by the index 10/Em) with different sources of light of equal visual intensity, but having different distributions of energy, was experimentally obtained. Ordinary, orthochromatic, and three new fast panchromatic plates were investigated. Distinction was made between two types of sensitivity comparisons. Thus it was found that: first, the ratio of the sensitivity of any one of the panchromatic plates to that of the ordinary plate was greater with incandescent lighting than when “sunlight” was used, and second, in all cases the panchromatic plates were less sensitive to incandescent lighting than to “sunlight.” Approximate factors are included (for the particular emulsions studied) by which visual exposure meter readings should be multiplied when certain types of illuminants are encountered."
"The relation between photographic sensitivity and the time of development has been studied. Three modifications of Hurter and Driffield's method of measuring plate speeds have been used as indexes of sensitivity. The results are generally in accord with those of Bullock, who investigated the relation of “threshold speed” to development time. An optimum time of development is indicated, which varies with the type of emulsion. — The differences between the three indexes have been brought out. Just which index is most satisfactory depends somewhat on the nature of the individual problem. It is concluded that, in many cases, a single value of any index is inadequate to represent the sensitivity of a given emulsion. The clearest representation may be had by a curve plotted between a sensitivity index and development time."
"A description of a portable reflector arc lamp and current rectifying device designed especially for use with portable sound projection equipment. The lamp is small, is adapted to portable projectors, is well proportioned, and of exceptional power. The rectifier is of the familiar Tungar type and gives full-wave rectification. It is compact and portable in design, and the whole equipment is of an efficiency high enough so that ample screen illumination may be secured with current drawn from the 110-volt lamp socket."
"This paper reviews some recent vacuum tube and photoelectric cell developments which are of interest in sound recording and reproduction systems. An indirectly heated cathode triode is described, in the output circuit of which the current components due to the a-c. power supply of the heater have been reduced approximately 20 decibels below previously obtained levels. This tube makes it possible to use an a-c. supply in amplifiers having flat frequency characteristics with over-all gains of the order of 100 decibels. The microphonic disturbances in vacuum tubes are discussed. A measuring system for evaluating the microphonic noise currents is described, and the characteristics of a filamentary cathode tube of low microphonic noise level are given. The characteristics of a double anode, thermionic, gas-filled, rectifier tube for use in a d-c. power supply unit for the sound lamp and vacuum tube filaments of reproducing systems are given. A photoelectric cell of high sensitivity for use in sound reproduction work is described."
"The several methods used in process photography are briefly described, in the beginning, from the historical point of view. The various methods of applying these processes, and the technics involved in applying them, are discussed."
"The shrinkage-compensating sound printer described is designed on the principle of bending the shrunken negative film so that its emulsion surface will temporarily regain the exact length that matches the positive. A means of achieving this automatically is described and the advantages are noted."
"The paper treats of the condition of film after it has been used thirty or more days, and the effect produced by poor reels and bent and damaged film cases upon the photographic and other qualities of the film that have required so many years of endeavor to perfect. The paper concludes with suggestions to the home offices as regards their method of handling replacement requisitions from exchanges in the territory."
"Owing to the advent of sound at a highly prosperous time and the tremendous demand for pictures that was placed upon Hollywood, more emphasis was placed upon quantity than upon quality. The capacity of the country for exhibiting motion pictures was increased beyond reason, and as a result, some drastic measures must be taken to rectify the situation. The exhibitor's prime interest lies in the picture, not in the means of producing it. It remains for the engineer to develop new principles of projection, such as color and stereoscopy, to provide the business of exhibiting with new attractions."
"The motion picture screen is compared to a printing press in its possibilities for the dissemination of knowledge. Rear projection is discussed; also the necessity for encouraging independent producers, and of producing films dealing with educational and scientific subjects in addition to the dramatic features."
"This paper describes recent progress which has been made in laboratory studies of mechanical records of sound cut on a wax disk. Both theoretical and experimental investigations indicate that a phonograph record, cut with vertical undulations instead of the more usual lateral undulations possesses fundamental advantages. The principal improvement comes from a marked increase in the volume and frequency range over which faithful reproduction may be obtained. A higher volume level can be recorded for the same groove spacing and speed. More playing time can be provided with a given size of record and volume level since, for these conditions, both the groove spacing and speed may be reduced. Improvements in methods of processing the stampers and in the record material give a large reduction in surface noise and hence a corresponding increase in the volume range. With these improvements the frequency range which can be reproduced satisfactorily can be extended nearly an octave to 8000 to 10,000 cycles. Other improvements incidental to the improvements noted above are great improvement in the quality of reproduction obtainable directly from a soft “wax” record and a great extension in the life of the hard record."
"An address delivered before the New York Section, December 9, 1931, following the re-presentation of the paper “Vertical Sound Records: Recent Fundamental Advances in Recording on Wax,” by H. A. Frederick, published in this issue of the Journal on page 141."
"The theory of photographic tone reproduction, though specific for ideal cases, cannot always be applied in the determination of printing exposure for motion picture, negatives. A statistical study of the correlation of various optical characteristics—maximum transmission, minimum transmission, and total frame transmission—with the required exposure has been made. Of the possible measurements to be made, the value of total frame transmission seems to be the best criterion of printing exposure. The apparatus used in making the measurements is described and the data obtained are presented graphically."
"The aim of this paper is to establish a relation between the bodily posture of the viewer, the size and shape of the picture, and the architectural form of the theater in all its details. The present type of theater floor is compared with the reversed type described in a previous paper in order to show how the latter type of floor permits placing a greater number of seats within the desirable seating areas than the present type. An analysis is made also of the effect of reversing the floor on the ability of the viewer to assume a comfortable bodily posture. Definite angles of sight specified by the various tilts of chair backs found necessary for comfortable posture are shown. Several forms of theaters of various seating capacities and screen sizes are described in order to show the broad application of the theories involved in reversing the pitch of the orchestra floor."
"The question of a suitable measure of harmonic distortion is discussed. The distortion factor employed is defined as the ratio of the effective value of the combined harmonic voltages to the fundamental voltage. A simple rapid method of measuring this ratio is described which has several advantages over earlier methods. Results are given showing the performance of apparatus for the application of this method to the testing of audio frequency amplifier systems."
"Continuous motion picture film developing machines set up a unidirectional current of developer as a consequence of the motion of the film unless vigorous measures are adapted to counteract it. This current is shown to cause distortions of the H & D characteristics of the photographic material, when the usual type of sensitometer strip is used for control of the development. The effect of the geometry of the sensitometer strip on the extent of “direction effect” is discussed."
"The 8th International Congress of Photography was held at Dresden, Germany, from August 3 to 8, 1931, inclusive. Occurring at the time of a financial crisis in Germany, there was a question at one time as to the possibility of holding the Congress at this date; but fortunately, it was found possible to carry it through, and in spite of this unfavorable circumstance there was a very large attendance."
"This report of the Progress Committee covers the period October, 1931, to May, 1932. The advances in the cinematographic art are classified as follows: (1) Production, (2) Distribution, (3) Exhibition, (4) Applications of Motion Pictures, (5) Color Photography, (6) Amateur Cinematography, (7) Statistics, (8) Publications and New Books."
"The Sound Committee purposes to encourage any advancement that will bring about improvements in the recording and reproducing of sound. To facilitate an orderly procedure and also to present to the Society a comprehensive picture of the problems involved, an outline has been prepared which shows the major elements on which faithful reproduction of sound depends. Opposite each item in the outline are given references to pertinent discussions in technical literature. While this bibliography is not complete, the Committee feels that it is sufficiently inclusive to permit ready reference to fairly wide and varied sources of useful information. It appears as an appendix to this report. — The Sound Committee has confined its specific considerations to four timely and important subjects appearing in the outline and presents to the Society the results of its studies."
"The report of the Projection Practice Committee for the Spring, 1932, Convention is devoted to: (1) A description of a method of testing the output level of several projectors during the performance for the purpose of maintaining them in an equalized condition. A description of a method of checking the continuity of the speech circuits of individual loud speaker units during the performance. Such an arrangement can also be used for equalizing the sound volume before each performance. A study of theater problems of the release print dealing with processing of film, buckling of film, density of positive prints, cutting film for change-overs, uniformity of volume level, and use of the present standard release print. A paper dealing with these matters, presented during the session on the release print, at the Washington, D. C., Convention, on May 12, 1931, will appear in a succeeding issue of the JOURNAL. The Committee's comments on the problems of projection and on the importance of maintaining competent supervision of projection, as regards the maintenance of high quality of performance and as effecting the economies of operation. (1) As regards the first topic, no method has heretofore been available that would permit testing the output level of an idle projector while the performance was being conducted on a second projector. Whenever a difference of output level between projectors developed, it was necessary to wait until the end of the day's run in order to check and correct trouble of this nature. Meanwhile, the projectionist was obliged to compensate for inequality of sound level between projectors each time a change-over was made. As a result of this procedure, faulty control of sound volume occurrcd in a great many cases."
"New Types of Screens.—Since the last report of the Committee, there have appeared several new developments in screens that deserve notice. Those that have come to our attention are the following: Screens of embossed material coated with ordinary white pigments have been introduced by several manufacturers. The indentations are about ⅛ inch square with a spherical contour, either convex or concave, and of about 1/16 inch relief. The purpose of this treatment is to obtain more uniform light distribution than is usually possible with an ordinary, flat, diffusing surface. Even diffusing screens with smooth surfaces frequently exhibit some loss of brightness at angles of 50 degrees or more from the screen normal, and also in some cases have a slight glossiness at the specular anglc which is undesirable because of the tendency to glare. The embossed screen tends partially to overcome these two deficiencies according to tests submitted by one manufacturer. However, it should be pointed out that a good flat screen is relatively free from such defects also"
"The Non-Theatrical Equipment Committee was formed early this year for the purpose of investigating matters relating to 16 millimeter film cameras and projectors, accessories such as screens, film splicers, etc., film slide projectors, glass slide projectors, and 35 millimeter portable and semiportable projectors."
"The Museum Committee was formed for the purpose of preserving the relics and traditions of the motion picture; with this purpose in mind, the Committee set about to choose a suitable museum for the deposition of all available relics. A museum on either the East or West Coast was considered. After due consideration, it seemed more feasible to start the exhibit on the West Coast, as a number of collections are available only for a West Coast museum."
"One hundred and thirty types of picture projection lamps are today required to fill the demands placed on the lamp manufacturers. This large number of types, each being available in several different voltages and in most cases with either one of two kinds of bases, brings the total to over 500. The total annual demand for the entire country is only 240,000 units for lamps of this type. The result is that the lamps are expensive and that the amount of engineering that can be devoted to each type is entirely inadequate. — This situation is partly because small improvements in lamps have been made almost annually in the past, and partly because of wide diversity of opinion among projector designers. By assembling and coordinating the ideas of equipment designers, an ideal set of light source requirements can be laid down. Based on these requirements the lamp manufacturers can then establish the characteristics of light sources to be introduced during the next few years."
"Manufacturers of motion picture projectors have been continuously demanding increasingly brighter and more uniform light sources. The biplane staggered filament construction, consisting of two parallel rows of coils, so placed that the coils in one plane fill the spaces between coils in the other, is now being presented as the lamp manufacturer's answer to this demand of the industry. A report is presented on comparative tests made with monoplane and biplane filament lamps ranging in wattage from 200 to 1000, with several types of optical systems. A description of the methods pursued in taking screen lumen readings and making bulb temperature measurements is also included."
"In projection printing of motion pictures, it is essential that the illumination in the printing plane he uniform and of high intensity. It is also desirable that the light in the negative plane be more or less diffused in order to minimize the effect of scratches and reduce contrast. Since the introduction of diffusion into an optical system is accompanied by a loss of intensity and possibly also of printing plane uniformity, experiments have been made to determine what conditions are most favorable from the points of view of uniformity and diffuseness."
"This paper describes a new device for automatically controlling the intensity of the printing light so that the successive scenes of each print receive the respective exposures that have been previously assigned to them. By means of a keyboard having numbered keys corresponding to twenty-four light intensity steps, the control can be rapidly set for a negative having as many as one hundred and sixty scenes. A recording indicator enables a quick check-up with the timing card, and facilitates an accurate control of printing."
"A brief account of the origin of sound motion pictures in the U. S. Navy; treats of the problems involved in designing equipments satisfactorily for naval service, and describes in detail an RCA Photophone Type PG34B1 equipment, the largest of three types of equipment being supplied to the U. S. Navy. The equipment described herein is designed for service on the largest type of fighting ship. It is devoid of batteries, performs in accordance with naval specifications, is easily serviced, and is provided with a remote volume control."
"In 1926, Capstaff and Seymour1 published a paper giving directions for making duplicate negatives using a new film manufactured specifically for that purpose. Good quality and tone reproduction were possible by this method although the graininess of exhibition prints was not entirely satisfactory. — Since then, improved films have been available, and the present paper contains a description of the tests performed during a search for the most satisfactory sensitive materials and processing technic. The experiments showed that in order to minimize graininess, the master positive must be developed to a relatively high gamma (1.85) in a positive developer, and the duplicate negative to a correspondingly low gamma (0.55 or less). There are also given data which explain why the high gamma master positive in conjunction with a low gamma duplicate negative gives the most satisfactory graininess."
"The importance of the projection screen as affecting the visibility of the projected picture and the box-office receipts of the theater is briefly discussed. In addition, the paper presents various phases with which those who are concerned with the selection and installation of screens should be acquainted, points out the difficulties attendant on the deterioration of the screen surface, and the additional cost of operation produced thereby."
"A short story of the evolution of the photographic process, describing the various stages of improvement in speed and quality. The historical development of the photographic process is treated briefly, from the camera obscura through the early experiments of the daguerreotype, the discovery and use of hypo, the use of collodion and gelatin emulsions, to the panchromatic emulsion and the reversal process."
"The author examines different types of illumination apparatus. He discusses their conditions of operation and describes the apparatus devised by himself in greater detail. This apparatus obtains an extremely fine exploring zone simply by projecting the image of a rectilinear incandescent filament on the film by means of a good objective. In order to correct the aberrations rigorously, the light coming from this filament goes through the walls of the lamp in a place where they form parallel faces worked optically. — In conclusion, the author describes some comparative tests made on apparatus with a slit and on the rectilinear filament apparatus. The flux emitted by the latter is superior to the flux emitted by the apparatus with the slit, with a consumption approximately one-tenth as great. At the same time the disadvantages of the slits (dust, defective uniformity of illumination, delicacy of centering, etc.) are eliminated."
"This paper describes a special oscillograph which was designed for making rapid records in sound picture studies. The oscillograph is briefly described, and illustrations are presented of records obtained in making the following studies: microphonic action of vacuum tubes; noise levels in amplifiers; investigations on rectifiers; studies on light valve clash; action of the biasing current of light valves as used in noiseless recording by the variable density method; acoustical studies showing the rise and decay of transients; loud speaker selection with regard to load carrying capacity and mechanical flutter investigations of reproducer sets."
"Due to its length, Mr. Jones' paper on sensitometry which was presented in part on three consecutive days at the Spring, 1931, Meeting of the Society at Hollywood, Calif., will be published in the Journal in four issues. The following is the third of the four installments. The paper deals in a tutorial manner with the general subject of sensitometry, its theory and practice. The fourth installment will be published in the March, 1932, issue of the Journal."
"The development of thermionic tubes has opened an entirely new field in control of theater lighting. This development has made possible the obtaining of preset dimming proportional dimming, and a small compact switchboard such as has been heretofore impossible. — The preset dimming feature allows an operation whereby a board may be set up for any desired number of effects in advance, so that these effects may be called for at the will of the operator by operating a single control. This feature might be termed an ability of the switchboard to learn effects and bring them out when called upon by its master, the operator. — Proportional dimming, a new feature, allows the lights to be controlled in such a manner that they may be dimmed out in combinations while retaining the same color tone throughout the dimming process. — The third desirable feature is that a small compact control board may be so arranged that it can be placed as desired in the orchestra pit, or some similar location so that the operator becomes a light artist, taking his place in the performance along with the organist or other artists."
"A portable projector made by the Établissement Gaumont Franco-Film Aubert is described. The projector is of very small weight and is arranged for carrying in a case. The film moves with a constant motion past the axis of the light source and the projection lens, the image being maintained stationary upon the screen by a combination of the movement with an optical “compensator.” It is claimed that due to these features, wearing of the film has been very much reduced and the motion is extremely silent in operation. The article describes briefly the optical principle of the motion, how the principle is applied, and the construction and assembly of the apparatus."
"At the Spring Convention at Hollywood a report was made of the activities of the Projection Theory Committee. A subcommittee to examine the literature of the subject was formed, consisting of C. Tuttle, F. K. Moss, and H. P. Gage, Chairman. The present plan of this Committee is to prepare a tutorial paper on the progress of the optics of motion picture projection, based principally on the papers published by of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers, but also referring to significant papers in other publications."
"Design features of two sensitometers are presented. One of the sensitometers is used to make sensitometric tests on positive film under printing conditions. The other is designed to produce exposures under sound recording conditions. The results of tests with both of these sensitometers emphasize the importance of making sensitometric tests parallel conditions of film use, and show some of the errors that occur in judging speed and contrast from sensitometric data obtained under conditions not corresponding to the actual conditions of use."
"The development of the term “decibel” is outlined, and its convenience in measuring the characteristics of electrical circuits discussed. The relation of the decibel to photographic density is pointed out and illustrated by calculations of the effect of ground noise reduction devices. Finally, the values of acoustic power of common sources of sound are given as the levels in decibels based on various Reference points in use in the motion picture industry."
"This paper deals not with the optics of the photographic lens, motion picture projector, or studio illuminator, but rather with those instruments such as microscopes, photometers, etc., the use of which has contributed greatly to the advance of the motion picture art of today. A simple explanation is given of the different types of instruments and the general optical principles involved, and some of their specific applications, which indicate the debt which industry owes to optical science."
"The following is the fourth and, final installment of Mr. Jones' paper on sensitometry, which, due to its length, was presented in part on three consecutive days at the Spring, 1932, Meeting of the Society at Hollywood, Calif. The preceding installments appeared in the Journals of October and November, 1931, and January, 1932. The paper deals in a tutorial manner with the general subject of sensitometry, its theory and practice."
"In a paper published in the June issue of the Journal the author showed that mercury-arc lamps when excited by quick violent electrical transients make a practical source of intermittent light which is very actinic and has a short duration of flash. The timing of the flashes is easily controlled. — In this present paper, further information regarding the duration and the quality of the light are given. Also improvements upon the mercury-arc tubes are described which simplify the construction of the light-pulse tube and the electrical circuits. — Uses of intermittent light for taking motion pictures are described and illustrated by examples. There are in general two methods of using the intermittent light. One method is used to take pictures where the light is caused to flash for each frame and the film runs at a continuous speed. The second is used to take stroboscopic moving pictures of rapidly moving objects by causing the light frequency to approach the frequency of the motion of the object. Examples of the later method are shown, these being stroboscopic motion pictures of a crude motion picture claw mechanism operating at 30 fps. and of the surges in the valve springs of a gasoline engine running at 1930 rpm."
"The sound reproducing equipment used in the Los Angeles Theater is described in a general manner. Many refinements have been used in this installation, including aids for the hard of hearing, broadcast pick-up, and a public address system, which enable the exhibitor to furnish better entertainment and more comfort to the patrons. Means are provided for reproducing the picture and the accompanying sound in the lounge, and provision is also made for disk reproduction, in addition to film reproduction. A reproducer set is also provided for the reproduction of non-synchronous commercial records, making possible the running of continuous programs for entrance music, exit music, and sound effects."
"The extent of the reducing effect of fixing baths on the silver image during the progress of fixation is greater than has been generally supposed. For example, in sensitometric work it is dangerous to prolong the fixation of motion picture positive film in the average fresh potassium alum fixing bath beyond S minutes at 65° F. and with certain highly acid chrome alum baths a measurable degree of reduction occurs even in this short space of time. — Since little or no reduction of the image occurs in an alkaline hypo solution, sensitometric tests should be checked against images fixed in a 25 per cent solution of hypo containing 1 per cent of sodium carbonate (anhydrous). — In regular laboratory work the degree of reduction which takes place in the normal time for fixation is usually of no practical importance with the baths in common use. In any given bath the rate of reduction increases with the acidity, the temperature of the bath, and degree of agitation of the film. — During use, the reducing action of a fixing bath falls off because it becomes more alkaline and accumulates silver thiosulfate which tends to retard the reduction. — In order to insure the minimum degree of reduction, baths having a minimum degree of acidity should be used although such baths have a short life and often do not harden satisfactorily. It is therefore necessary to revive such baths either by adding further quantities of acid or hardening solution at intervals during use, otherwise if the film is not rinsed in water before fixing an objectionable sludge will form in the fixing bath. — The nature of the reduction with the negative emulsions tested was found to be almost strictly proportional, and some of the more active baths enumerated could therefore be used advantageously for reducing the contrast of photographic images."
"The essential conditions for producing pictures in stereoscopic relief are two: First, separate pictures must be made from different points of view, corresponding to the two eyes; second, each eye of the observer must receive its appropriate view. No compromise with these fundamental requirements appears possible. — If stereoscopic projection is to be achieved in such a form that a large group of observers may simultaneously see the projected picture in relief, the distribution of the appropriate views to the two eyes must be accomplished for each observer. There are two places where the distribution may be made: the first is at the observers' eyes; the second is at the screen on which the picture is projected. — If the first method be employed, two separate images must be provided on the screen, and every observer must have means for directing one image to the right eye and one to the left eye. — If distribution of the images is to be made at the screen, two images are no longer sufficient. Theoretically an extremely large number must be provided, a separate one for each position that can be occupied by any eye in the audience. — Several methods of utilizing the parallax panoramagram method are discussed. It appears that from the theoretical standpoint the problem of relief projection is entirely soluble, and experimental tests of still picture projection have been successfully made. Practically, the solution of relief projection of motion pictures will depend upon the use of apparatus involving excessive speeds of operation, great multiplicity of taking or projecting units, projection screens containing minute ridged reflecting or refracting elements of extreme optical perfection, projection lenses of extraordinary defining power, microscopic accuracy of film positioning, and photographic emulsions of speeds at present unknown."
"European producers will offer some 450 feature pictures during 1931. Leading producing countries are Germany, offering over 150 German dialog pictures, England some 140 sound features, and France over 100 Frenchdia log films for the year 1931. Europe is rapidly wiring its theaters, as indicated in the 10,400 wired theaters during 1931 as compared with the 4950 theaters wired during 1930, over a 100 per cent increase in the short space of one year. — Elimination of legislation detrimental to American interests occurred in France during 1931, and a tightening up of quota legislation was continued in Germany. Agitation to increase the quota percentage to 50 per cent in the United Kingdom gained very little headway, while other countries that have become picture conscious are trying to encourage their own production through subsidies, contingents, or taxes, as the case may be. Coupled with the problem of European production competition and the artificial trade barriers set up by European governments, is that of supplying European countries with dialog pictures in their native tongue. — While the above obstacles appear difficult to surmount at the present time, the ingenuity of American technicians and producers will find a way to solve these problems to the extent of producing a sufficient quantity of foreign dialog films at a cost that will bring a fair return on their investment."
"A new type of disk record, known as the Victrolac record, is described. The material of which it is made is a thermoplastic resin, which must be cooled before being removed from the mold. The paper discusses briefly the characteristics of this material, the time of playing of records made of it, operating features of the tone arm and pick-up system, resonance characteristics of the tone arm, and the characteristics of the chromium needle."
"The limits of illumination available in a projector are fixed by three factors: the size and brilliance of the light source, the effective aperture of the optical system and the design of the condensing lenses. In modern 16 mm. machines of the standard type, about 100 to 120 lumens are available through an f/2 optical system; these values, which are not corrected for shutter and film losses, mean that 1.6 to 2.0 per cent of the total radiation is being used. The use of low voltage lamps has not changed this ratio to any extent. The effect of varying each of the above factors is discussed, and the increase in screen brightness that is likely to be obtained is estimated."
"The need of properly conditioning air in motion picture film processing plants is pointed out and the values of temperature and relative humidity in current use in such plants are indicated. In particular, the process of humidifying, in which pure silica which has passed through the sol and gel stages of manufacture, commonly called silica gel, is used, is described. The principles involved in the process and the efficiency of the method in controlling the condition of air are explained, and curves are given showing the efficiency of adsorption."
"A description is given of apparatus with which the rate of decay of sound energy in a room may be measured. A loud speaker is used as a source of sound. When the sound reaches a steady state the loud speaker circuit is opened and at the same time a timer is started. When the sound energy has decayed to some definite value the timer is automatically slopped. If made in a portable form this equipment may be used to study the acoustical properties of auditoriums. Attention is called to the errors which may occur in these measurements."
"A method is set forth for the derivation of dimensions and locations of the final projection print and all camera, printer, and recording apertures, consideration being made for film weave, shrinkage, and mechanical tolerances in the apparatus involved in producing and projecting the film. — Two methods of producing films are considered: (a) Projection positive print made from a 16 mm. dupe negative by continuous contact printing, where the dupe negative is made by optical reduction of the 35 mm. picture from a master positive and the sound re-recorded from a 35 mm. sound track, and (b) production of the projection positive print from a 35 mm. picture negative by optical reduction and re-recording of the sound from the 35 mm. sound film directly to the final 16 mm. positive. The method provides for modification of these processes so that any combination can be used."
"There are at the present time two standards of 35 mm. film perforation, one known as the Bell & Howell perforation for negative films and the other the rectangular perforation for positive films, both of which have been approved and adopted by the Society of Motion Picture Engineers. Unfortunately, the use of these two standards introduces complications found detrimental in certain types of work, which indicate the advisability of having a single standard. — It is felt that the rectangular style of perforation has advantages that it is desirable to retain. An alternative standard is proposed that will combine the advantages of both the present styles, and which, at the same time, can be used on practically all existing equipment without alteration of that equipment. Means are also suggested for shortening the transitional period of such a change-over."
"A new reproducer employing a vertical turntable and floating pick-up is described. The reasons for the radical departure from conventional design and the advantages resulting from this departure are briefly referred to. The reproducer is of the portable type, being housed in a compact lightweight carrying case."
"Extremely large auditoriums present acoustical difficulties which do not readily yield to the customary methods of analysis and correction. This is illustrated by measurements of the time of reverberation, made in the Madison Square Garden, New York, N. Y., which revealed a considerable discrepancy between theoretical expectations and the times actually measured throughout the frequency range. At 500 cycles, for example, analysis of the auditorium indicated a decay period of 35.5 seconds, whereas the time actually measured by the spark chronograph reverberation meter was only 7.6 seconds. On the basis of the measured time, 47,000 square feet of one-inch rock wool were installed. This material was distributed in a manner calculated to suppress undesirable discrete reflections as well as to reduce the general reverberation time. The result was a reduction in the measured time to 3.5 seconds and the complete elimination of acoustic difficulties. Present reverberation formulas do not possess sufficient generality to justify application to enclosures which are extremely atypical in size or shape. Until such formulas are developed, reliance must be placed on actual measurements."
"At the Hollywood Convention, a paper was presented by Mr. Ben Schlanger1 entitled “Reversing the Form and Inclination of the Motion Picture Theater Floor for Improving Vision.” As a result of the discussion which followed, it was suggested that the Sound Committee consider what difficulties this type of structure might present from an acoustical standpoint."
"The views of the readers of the Journal relative to the usefulness to them of the Abstracts regularly published in the Journal will be appreciated. Favorable views are of particular interest. In the absence of a substantial body of opinion to the effect that these Abstracts are desired by the membership, their discontinuance may be considered."
"At a meeting of the Standards Committee, held at the General Office of the Society in New York, N. Y., on March 15th, the question of establishing the dimensional standards for projector apertures was again considered, this time in respect to recommendations made recently by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences which resulted from the simultaneous study of the problem by that organization and the S. M. P. E. The Standards Committee unanimously agreed to recommend for adoption by the Society the dimensions 0.600 by 0.825 inch as standard dimensions for 35 mm. projector apertures, and the dimensions 0.631 by 0.868 inch for the corresponding camera apertures."
"The Western Electric method of noiseless recording with the light valve is described. The general principles are discussed, the circuit diagram is explained, and the method of adjusting the device for service described. The photographic characteristics of film are considered, and their application in noiseless recording is shown in some detail."
"This paper describes a group of directional baffle loud speakers that are designed to combine high efficiency of transformation of electrical into acoustical energy, with directional characteristics that are particularly adapted to large-scale reproduction of sound with good fidelity. Three types of directional baffle loud speakers have been designed, each satisfying a certain set of requirements. The 60-inch directional baffle covers an extremely large frequency range and is designed for theaters with good acoustic characteristics. The 37-inch directional baffle is designed to compensate for the acoustics of theaters with high reverberation characteristics. The 25-inch directional baffle is designed for theaters in which the space behind the screen is extremely limited. Response measurements show that the output of these loud speakers is uniform over a wide frequency band. The uniform directional characteristics of these loud speakers eliminate the possibility of frequency discrimination for points removed from the axis. These loud speakers, due to the high efficiency and rugged construction, are capable of delivering large acoustic outputs without distortion."
"It has been found convenient and time-saving to compute gamma by the method of least squares from data obtained by printing exposures through a developed sensitometer strip as negative. The computation by this method reduces to the addition of a set of numbers obtained from tables, one for each density involved. The paper describes the method followed."
"The mechanical problems of optical intermittent projectors, related to threading of film, gate structure, running time per reel, operating characteristics, and difficulties more intimately connected with sound film itself, are briefly described. In addition, some attention is given to the economic problems involved in film damage and wear, in the wearing of machine parts, in the use of duplex film on thinner film base. The paper refers to these problems specifically in relation to 16 mm. machines."
"Ammonia treatment of photographic materials used for hypersensitizing leaves them with excess silver over bromine. Working with known dyes in experimental emulsions, the Bureau of Standards has shown that this excess silver accounts for the photographic effects of the ammonia."
"Due to the great speed of supersensitive film to Mazda lights, it is possible to make satisfactory medical motion pictures under lighting conditions impossible with regular panchromatic film. The high red sensitivity of this new film permits the recording of detail lost in the past. Telephoto lenses can now be used, giving both the photographer and the surgeon more freedom of movement, with less danger of interfering with aseptic precautions."
"Some of the difficulties attending the taking and projection of motion pictures in actual colors are briefly discussed, particular attention being paid to the need of matching the taking and projecting lights spectrally. The author concludes that, despite the great amount of research work being done in emulsions, optics, etc., little will be accomplished in achieving motion pictures in natural colors unless the same particular care be taken with the light sources."
"This brief description of the Selenophon process of recording was offered as a contribution to the Progress Committee Report of May, 1931. The process is employed to record sound photographically on film by the variable width method, employing a string oscillograph for varying the light intensity; a tightly strung fiber moving in sympathy with sound vibrations, and acting as a variable shutter in the path of the beam of light. The reproducer is briefly referred to, in which a selenium cell of the condenser type is used in conjunction with a five-stage amplifier."
"The history of the development of the motion picture industry in Japan is traced, beginning with the year 1895. The economic problems with which the Japanese producers have to contend are pointed out, as well as the extent to which motion pictures are used and theaters are patronized. The relation between the per capita wealth and the patronage of motion picture theaters is discussed, as well as the special uses to which motion pictures are put, such as for education and propaganda."
"This paper describes a machine designed for printing picture and sound records simultaneously and automatically. It is so constructed that it can print full-width pictures, with or without masking the sound track, or the sound track only. Provision is made for printing news weeklies or single-system negatives, as well as the double-system or separate sound negative. Two prints can be made simultaneously from a single negative, or one reel can be printed on one sprocket and a second and different reel on another. The capacity of the machine is 5100 feet per hour per finished print."
"Two methods are in current use for controlling the developed density of picture negatives. These are: (1) the test system, and (2) the time-and-temperature system. In this paper the two systems are compared briefly and their advantages and disadvantages are given."
"The number of projection rooms in Hollywood studios varies between one and fifteen, depending on the production capacity of the studio. Projection distances average about 60 feet. In general, reproducing equipment is furnished by the company whose recording apparatus is used. During shooting and editing of a picture, the sound track and picture are on separate films, practically doubling the amount of equipment needed and calling for special synchronizing devices. – Daily and weekly routine checks covering frequency characteristics, power levels, and screen brightness are described, as well as small projectors and reproducers used for inspecting release prints in film processing laboratories. The paper also covers special applications, such as reproducers on stages (play-backs) used for furnishing music or for special work, as in split mat photography, special uses in scoring, trick work, etc."
"The questions discussed in this paper are: (1) The depth of focus vs. depth of field. (2) The size of the permissible circle of confusion. Should it be a constant value or should it vary as in still photography? It is concluded that it should remain fixed. (3) Magnification as an index to depth. The simple rule that depth varies inversely as the square of the magnification may prove to be a very practical yardstick in the appraisal of depth in the photographing of near-by objects. A table is shown in which the magnification is estimated from the size of the figures on the ground glass. The corresponding depth is given for various stops."
"The conditions of independent production are contrasted with major studio activities, personnel, equipment, etc. The economics, time, and quality requirements for sound recording in the independent field are discussed, and the relations between independent producers and recording equipment manufacturers are briefly referred to, as well as the technical and business problems to be met, and the probable future developments."
"The reasons for the increasing importance of special process photography in motion picture production are briefly discussed. The influence of sound in enlarging the scope of application of special process photography, the avoidance of difficulties of recording sound in many natural locations, the use of special process photography in avoiding hazardous stunts, the economic aspects, and various other phases of the subject are briefly treated of. — The various methods in commercial use are outlined, and the technical difficulties encountered in special process and trick work, the mistakes to be avoided, and the solution of special problems are pointed out."
"A new printer, in which the fundamental design is established on basic sensitometric specifications, is described. An analysis is presented of the requirements of the laboratory ideal of a printing machine, including such specifications as fully automatic fool-proof interlocking, elimination of operator's mistakes and film wastage, and many other features desirable in a machine of this type. The paper describes the new printer fully and shows how the printer can be set in practice to conform to absolute sensitometric standards."
"A variable focus, variable magnification lens of new and outstanding design is described. The Varo is a “zoom” type lens, introducing the conception of a variable three-element system in place of the two-element variable telephoto system previously used for this type of work. A summary of the optical problems involved is presented, and a description of the lens showing how the mechanical design has been fitted to the optical specifications is given, together with a discussion of the relation of the rate of “zoom” to the loss of definition. The paper closes with a brief outline of the use of the lens in practice."
"A sensitometric study is presented of the effect of varied drying conditions on positive film. It is found that the gamma changes considerably with drying conditions. At 86°F., for instance, an increase from 36 to SO per cent in relative humidity increased the gamma from 1.97 to 2.45. The effect appears to be concurrent with softening of the gelatin during drying."
"The harmonic content of variable density sound records, made under a wide variety of conditions, has been investigated by means of a microdensitometer and harmonic analyzer. From these results the conditions of exposure and development giving minimum harmonic content were deduced. These results have been correlated with results obtained by means of photographic tone reproduction diagrams. It has thus been possible to determine the effective emulsion characteristic under various conditions and to determine what changes in the characteristic curve are necessary to bring about further improvement in tone quality and wider latitude in recording and processing conditions."
"A n instrument is described in which the theoretically correct conditions for precise photographic photometry are realized. It permits the measurement of filter factors, photographic reflection and transmission of coefficients of colored materials, and the photographic intensity of light sources with higher precision and greater repeatability than it has been possible to realize with the majority of other methods commonly used for these purposes. The method of procedure and the results obtained are illustrated by the projection of motion pictures showing the changes that occur in the photometric field during the process of making the determinations."
"Copies of the publications listed here may be obtained free of charge by addressing a request to the manufacturer named. Manufacturers are requested to send new publications to the General Office of the Society immediately upon issue."
"Incident to the many advances in recording and reproducing sound motion pictures, greater attention has been drawn to the necessity of reducing the noise from various sources integral to the theater. Analysis of the various sources, the factors influencing noise transmission, and the general structural limitations indicate that no general solutions of specific noise problems may be readily expressed except that of the reduction of noise directly at its source. In existing theaters many noise problems may be overcome by employing sound insulating and vibration isolating constructions adapted to the particular circumstances. Analysis of a large number of theater noise problems has indicated that attention to detail and to the proper use of materials has resulted in satisfactory solutions where other trial or temporary expedients have failed. In contemplated theater projects all aspects of the noise problem should be carefully considered, and every effort should be made to provide minimum noise conditions. It is anticipated that future designs will incorporate not only specifications for and requirements of necessary sound insulative construction, but also the maximum permissible noise level that may be created by any part of the theater equipment."
"Projection from behind a translucent screen appears to have advantages in small theaters designed to be operated in low-rental space and with a minimum of operating staff. In large theaters this type of projection permits stage effects not so easily produced, perhaps, by any other means. — All advantage, however, is lost, unless the projection distance can be made very small for a given size of picture compared with the usual projection distance. For this purpose lenses have been developed with a focal length as short as one inch that will project 35-mm. film. Patents have been granted disclosing that all these make use of the diverging power of a negative lens in order to cover a large field of view. Such use of negative lenses was applied in submarine periscope construction at least as early as 1915. — In projection lens practice, simple meniscus, compound meniscus, and negative lenses with compound curves have been disclosed in the patents issued. Another construction will be shown in which the distortion introduced by the usual negative element is compensated by an additional positive element, the two elements being used in conjunction with any standard projection lens to give the effect of a lens of shorter equivalent focal length, high aperture, and freedom from distortion."
"The following article was transmitted to the Projection Theory Committee subsequently to the appearance of the report of that Committee in the Journal of July, 1931. It is to be understood that publication of this article does not carry with it the implication that the Committee is in entire accord with the argument contained in it. The paper deals with several questions that have been raised concerning the properties and characteristics of anamorphosing optical systems."
"Three instruments employing the photoelectric cell designed by Messrs. Gans & Goldschmidt of Germany are described. These instruments are (a) an exposure meter employing the Mihaly circuit and galvanometer; (6) an instrument for calibrating the light intensity of lamps used in printing machines; and (c) an instrument for determining the brightness of projection screens."
"The paper describes a method of measuring gamma by means of the Agfa gammameter without its being necessary to make absolute measurements of density or plot sensitometric curves. The results obtained with this instrument are presented and are applied to a discussion of the Callier and Schwarzschild effects on the gamma of the variable density sound track."
"This paper presents briefly the part played by the motion picture in the general scheme of the Naval organization, touching on its entertaining, instructional, and recruiting value. For entertainment alone the Navy owns, in duplicate, 467 features, and is acquiring monthly an average of 25 features and 5 short subjects. The Naval requirements of censorship, processing, longevity, and special machine design are mentioned, in addition to the probable future requirement dealing with the restoration of historical film records that have deteriorated with age. Exchange problems and methods are discussed."
"The motion picture editorial problem is discussed in the form of a comprehensive outline of the steps involved in creating a finished production seven or eight thousand feet long from the several hundred thousand feet of film photographed and recorded for this purpose. Illustrations are given disclosing the problems confronting the director and film editor who are responsible for this work. The contributions of other technicians are described in some detail. A description of a typical Hollywood preview is given and its value to the producer demonstrated."
"For the first time motion picture recordings have been made of human speech recreated by the artificial larynx. A brief description is given of the mechanical voice box that replaces the natural larynx when that organ has to be removed by surgery. The operation of the artificial larynx is contrasted to the action of the human larynx, and the vocal organs in general are shown in combined realistic photography and animated drawings from the sound motion picture, “The Voice That Science Made,” which the paper serves to introduce. Some sidelights are thrown on the production of this novel film experiment in popular education."
"This paper is concerned principally with the opposite rôles played by mechanical inertia in the two types of projector, the continuous and the intermittent, special emphasis being placed upon the continuous type. By employing the inertia of the moving parts of the continuous projector, the attainment of accurate registration of successive images is greatly facilitated, whereas, in the intermittent type of projector, the inertia of the moving parts, becoming manifest between successive projections, adds materially to the difficulty of obtaining accuracy of registration, not to speak of the strains induced upon the moving film and parts of the projector."
"Copies of the publications listed here may be obtained free of charge by addressing a request to the manufacturer named. Manufacturers are requested to send new publications to the General Office of the Society immediately upon issue."
