"The results of previous work done on the distributed capacity of single-layer coils are briefly outlined. Previous theory and experiment do not agree. The reasons for this disagreement are discussed. Two important parameters were omitted from previous theory. The theoretical part of the present paper yields a formula which includes these two additional parameters. This formula is substantiated by experimental evidence and gives the internal capacity of short single-layer coils. By a short single-layer coil, the author means one whose length of winding is, at most, of about the order of the diameter of winding. Any capacity due to leads or terminals should not be considered as part of the internal coil capacity but should be treated separately."
"Pulse retardation method of Breit and Tuve has been modified to record continuously the equivalent height as well as the intensity of reflections from the ionosphere. Synchronized pulses are transmitted, and the received ground pulse and the reflected pulses, after amplification and suitable distortion, are applied to the focusing cylinder of a cathode ray tube the horizontal deflecting plates of which are connected to a synchronized linear time base circuit. The pattern on the screen is composed of a bright straight line corresponding to the time base with dark gaps corresponding to the received pulses. The distance between the initial points of the gaps represents retardation while the widths of the gaps correspond to the intensity of the pulses. The pattern is photographed on a vertically moving film. One of the first few records taken at Bangalore on 4 megacycles is reproduced. It shows, among other things, that the less retarded component of magneto-ionic splitting from the F layer is present most of the time. Whenever the longer retardation component does occur, it has stronger intensity than the former. Towards the late evening hours, just before disappearing, when the F layer rises and exhibits magnetoionic splitting, the intensity of the less retarded component is extremely low compared with the other component."
"Following the magneto-ionic theory of Appleton-Hartree, an explanation for the existence of echoes of long delay has been formulated. Realizing that the ordinary and extraordinary rays have opposite senses of polarization, it may be seen that one of these rays will penetrate the E layer while the other may not. The wave which penetrates the E layer will be reflected back from the F layer to the E layer and being repeatedly reflected between the two layers will travel around the earth and finally back to the ground. This time delay will account for the existence of echoes of long delay."
"Copies of the publications listed on this page may be obtained gratis by addressing a request to the publisher or manufacturer."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The Institute of Radio Engineers was formed in 1912 through the amalgamation of the Society of Wireless Telegraph Engineers and the Wireless Institute. Its headquarters were established in New York City and the membership has grown from less than fifty members at the start to almost six thousand by the end of 1932. The Institute functions solely to advance the theory and practice of radio and allied branches of engineering and of the related arts and sciences, their application to human needs, and the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members. Among the methods of accomplishing this need is the publication of papers, discussions, and communications of interest to the membership. The PROCEEDINGS is the official publication of the Institute and in it are published all of the papers, discussions, and communications received from the membership which are accepted for publication by the Board of Editors. Copies are sent without additional charge to all members of the Institute."
"Lists the Chairman and Secretary of various international and USA Sections and provides their contact information."
"Members are grouped by grade and listed by US state and city; non-US members are listed by country and city."
"Applications for transfer or election to the various grades of membership have been received from the persons listed here, and have been approved by the Committee on Admissions. Members objecting to transfer or election of any of these applicants should communicate with the Secretary. These applications will be considered by the Board of Direction at its next meeting."
"Provides a listing of current officers."
"Vladimir K. Zworykin was awarded the Morris Liebmann Memorial Prize for 1934."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Theoretical considerations indicate that the transconductance of a vacuum tube exhibits a phase angle when the transit time of electrons from cathode to anode becomes an appreciable fraction of the high-frequency period. Measurements show that such a phase angle actually occurs and that its behavior is in general agreement with the theoretical predictions."
"This paper gives the results of an analysis of the variation over the wavelength range from 35 to 63.5 meters of the loss resistance of a specially constructed variable air condenser. The condenser and the method of measurement are described. It is shown that the losses at any capacitance value and frequency may be represented by a fixed resistance plus an effective resistance arising from a constant power factor in the insulating material supporting the movable plate. The expression for the condenser loss resistance is compared with similar expressions for variable air condensers obtained by previous authors."
"Conversion detectors for superheterodyne sets are classified in two groups, containing two types each. These types are illustrated in Figs. 1(a), 1(b), 2(a), 2(b), 2(c), 2(d), and 2(e). It has been found possible to represent measured static characteristics (current versus applied voltage) of all types of detectors considered accurately by an equation of the type i = EAnea-V By using this expression for the static characteristics, conversion gain, distortion effects (modulation rise, modulation distortion, cross-modulation), and harmonics (causing whistling notes) could be calculated for all types of conversion detectors. An apparatus is described, permitting of easy measurements of conversion gain and harmonics. Measured and calculated data check as well as could be expected. Conversion gains of more than 400 were found with modern valve conversion detectors. It is pointed out that distortion may be determined by measuring the harmonics."
"A simple method of determining the dielectric constant and power factor of solid dielectrics at frequencies as high as 20 megacycles, with an accuracy which is sufficient for most purposes, is described. The major sources of error are discussed in detail, and several precautions which should be observed are pointed out. Measurements of the dielectric properties at 18 megacycles of a number of commonly used materials has shown that in general the power factor and dielectric constant are not widely different from those which obtain at frequencies of the order of one megacycle. In addition, the results of an investigation of the input impedance of vacuum tube voltmeters at high frequencies are described as an illustration of the further application of this method of measurement."
"In some earlier investigations on electron oscillations of the Barkhausen-Kurz type it was found by the author that oscillations could be produced in a positive grid valve with the usual grid-plate Lecher wire system omitted. The experimental fact that oscillations may be produced without this external Lecher wire circuit has been noted by many investigators, but few have studied the peculiarities of this particular case. The present paper describes some of the characteristics of this type of oscillator."
"The capacitance of the power transformer secondary to ground is shown to by-pass the filter system when the filter chokes are in the negative lead and the negative output is grounded. This results in a residual ripple voltage across the output that may be greater than the ripple voltage passed by a very good filter. The remedy is either to place the filter inductance in the positive lead or to ground the positive output terminal."
"Copies of the publications listed on this page may be obtained gratis by addressing a request to the publisher or manufacturer."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The Institute of Radio Engineers was formed in 1912 through the amalgamation of the Society of Wireless Telegraph Engineers and the Wireless Institute. Its headquarters were established in New York City and the membership has grown from less than fifty members at the start to almost six thousand by the end of 1932. The Institute functions solely to advance the theory and practice of radio and allied branches of engineering and of the related arts and sciences, their application to human needs, and the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members. Among the methods of accomplishing this need is the publication of papers, discussions, and communications of interest to the membership. The PROCEEDINGS is the official publication of the Institute and in it are published all of the papers, discussions, and communications received from the membership which are accepted for publication by the Board of Editors. Copies are sent without additional charge to all members of the Institute."
"Lists the Chairman and Secretary of various international and USA Sections and provides their contact information."
"Members are grouped by grade and listed by US state and city; non-US members are listed by country and city."
"Applications for transfer or election to the various grades of membership have been received from the persons listed here, and have been approved by the Committee on Admissions. Members objecting to transfer or election of any of these applicants should communicate with the Secretary. These applications will be considered by the Board of Direction at its next meeting."
"Provides a listing of current officers."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Precalculation of harmonic distortion produced by vacuum tubes used in all stages of a class B audio amplifier, for a great variety of operating conditions, is an important item in the work of the radio design engineer. A graphial method for this and similar calculations, which gives considerable saving of time has been developed. It is applicable to all symmetrical periodic curves containing harmonic components plotted to the sine of the fundamental frequency, sin ωt. The procedure consists in connecting the ends of such a curve by a straight line and measuring the ordinate differences between the curve and the chord for five definite values of abscissas. Simple expressions allow, then, for a rapid calculation of harmonic components up to 11th order. The method has proved to be very useful in class B modulator design."
"Equipment for ionosphere investigation was placed in operation at the Huancayo Magnetic Observatory of the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism of the Carnegie Institution of Washington during 1933. The equipment designed for multifrequency operation by manual methods is described. Three layers identified with the E, F1, and F2layers at Washington, D.C., are found. The F1layer appears to be formed by a separation from a general F region during the morning rather than direct ionization of a separate layer. Two reflection components are found near the maximum ionization of the F1and F2layers, reaching critical values at different frequencies. This difference corresponds very closely to the separation calculated for the effect of magneto-ionic double refraction due to the earth's magnetic field. From these data further information of the actual ionization conditions is obtained. The maximum ionization of the F1layer is found to reach 2.5×105electrons per cubic centimeter, while the density of heavier ions is not greater than about 107per cubic centimeter. The maximum ionization of the F2layer reaches 8×105to 9×105electrons per cubic centimeter and on some occasions exceeds 1.1×106electrons per cubic centimeter. A dip in the critical frequency of the F2layer usually occurs in the morning in the summer, which may be related to the appearance of the F1layer. If this dip in the diurnal critical frequency characteristic is due to absorption rather than ion limitation, the ionization may be higher than indicated during these periods."
"In this paper are described the results of wireless observations made in connection with the International Polar Year 1932-1933 at Moormansk (latitude 68°56′ N; longitude 33°05′ E) in the U.S.S.R. This work was done by the Leningrad Section of the Institute for Scientific Research of the People's Commissariat for Communication in common with the Central Geophysical Observatory under the direction of the author. A special system with two 150-watt tubes was designed in order to send out short pulses of 20-kilowatt peak power. This was accomplished by using a condenser charged to high tension by a rectifier. By means of a rotary spark gap this condenser was discharged fifty times per second through the plate circuit of the tube oscillator, in which short oscillations of great power were thus produced. The rest of the time the condenser was not connected to the oscillator and the charge was gradually stored up. Thanks to this method it was possible to carry out experiments under expeditionary conditions, using but a small power. The observations were made with a cathode ray tube, the current of a small alternator, driven on the same shaft as the transmitter discharger, causing a circular motion of the spot on the tube. The transmitter and receiver were separated by a distance of three kilometers and linked by wire. Records are given of measurements on several days of June, July, and August, 1933, as well as a classification of observed phenomena."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presenting clearly and concisely a story of the evolution of the electron, as seen from the viewpoint of modern theoretical physics, this article reveals that the electron in many respects is following the ''trend of the times.'' A review of the status of the electron reveals clearly that its properties have been extended well beyond those contemplated by its discoverer; also that, in following the simple and apparently necessary expedient of endowing the electron with such properties as a wave aspect and a change of mass with velocity, the vividness of the mental conception of an electron has been dulled. The author indicates that, in addition to the mental picture of fundamental atomic processes having become more difficult or even impossible, the intrinsic precision of the processes themselves is called into question by the most recent theories. This is the second in a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education.-Editor"
"The fundamental requirements involved in a system capable of picking up orchestral music, transmitting it a long distance, and reproducing it in a large hall, are discussed in this first paper of the symposium."
"In considering the physical Factors affecting it, auditory perspective is defined in this paper as being reproduction which preserves the spatial relationships of the original sounds. Ideally, this would require an infinite number of separate microphone-to-speaker channels; practically, it is shown that good auditory perspective can be obtained with only 2 or 3 channels. This is the second paper in the symposium."
"In ordinary radio broadcast of symphony music, the effort is to create the effect of taking the listener to the scene of the program, whereas in reproducing such music in a large hall before a large gathering the effect required is that of transporting the distant orchestra to the listeners. Lacking the visual diversion of watching the orchestra play, such an audience centers its interest more acutely in the music itself, thus requiring a high degree of perfection in the reproducing apparatus both as to quality and as to the illusion of localization of the various instruments. Principles of design of the loud speakers and microphones used in the Philadelphia-Washington experiment are treated at length in this, the third paper of this symposium."
"Appreciable care is required in the design of a system which must amplify with great fidelity practically the whole range of audible frequencies and be capable of delivering a high level while at the same time providing a wide volume range. Some of the problems involved are discussed, particularly as applying to the equipment used in the reproduction in Washington D. C., of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra playing in Philadelphia. This is the fourth paper in this symposium."
"Describing methods whereby high quality sound reproduction in auditory perspective can be accomplished over long distances, this discussion centers largely upon a description of the exact technique employed in providing communication transmission circuits for the Philadelphia-Washington demonstration. Problems that might be involved in carrying out such transmission on a more widespread scale also are touched upon. This is the fifth paper in this symposium."
"For the past 4 years actual lightning potentials on the 4-kv overhead distribution system of the Commonwealth Edison Company, Chicago, have been measured by means of surge voltage recorders. The methods used and conclusions drawn from the results obtained are given here."
"In this paper is set forth the comparative investment indistribution plant necessary over a 10-year period to provide for load increase in a typical section of Chicago, either by means of the existing radial feeder system or a primary network system. The results show that, in terms of both total new investment and accumulated annual costs, the use of the radial feeder system is the more economical in this case."
"Although frequencies now are standardized in the melting field and soon will be in the heating tield, most types of furnaces require special equipment. The electrical equipment discussed in this paper includes the frequency converters, the switching, and the capacitors. Typical installations are shown and the advantages and possibilities of water-cooled equipment are mentioned."
"Solutions For various problems encountered in connection with the automatic reclosing of oil circuit breakers are given in this paper. The results of studies made by several companies, and a brief description of devices for this type of service, also are given."
"Operation of mercury arc rectifiers generally results in increased harmonic currents in the rectifier supply circuits and may result in increased harmonic voltages. While these harmonics usually are not serious From the standpoint of the power system, they may result in interference to communication circuits exposed to the power circuits. This paper presents a method of computing these harmonic voltages and currents, and discusses methods of coordinating telephone systems and a-c power systems supplying rectifiers."
"Petersen coils installed on part of a 140-kv transmission system operating with the neutral ungrounde have successfully eliminated a large percentage of interruptions due to line-to-ground faults which occurred on that section. Detailed tests, presented in this paper, also have been made, and indicate many characteristics of the Petersen coil system."
"Experiments aimed at the elimination of the backfire tendency of, arc-rectifiers have led to a device termed the ``ignitron.'' Equipment, methods, and test data are discussed in this paper."
"Recent developments of the inductor alternator for the generation of modulated high frequency currents For telephone or telegraph signaling or carrier purposes are given in this paper. Several novel arrangement of the electric and magnetic circuits and certain principles and special details oF design and construction are described."
"There has been developed a generator for the production of heavy surge currents in excess of 100,000 amperes and of effective durations greater than 100, usec. Methods of measuring these currents by the cathode ray oscillograph with good engineering accuracy also have been developed. Some features of lightning phenomena may now be investigated which were not possible of study with the high-surge-voltage generator."
"A new demand meter has been developed which is suitable for attaching to either a single-phase or polyphase watthour meter, all around serviceability approaching that of the watthour meter itself. It has a definite law for averaging loads, and is smooth in operation."
"Results of a recently completed study of methods of increasing the distribution facilities in Somerville, Mass., are presented in this paper. The economic study included several different plans covering a 10-year period, and as a result a plan is proposed which permits modification to suit Future conditions."
"Recognizing that some of the highest types of graduate engineering instruction is to be found in a few of the larger research and industrial organizations, the University of Pittsburgh (Pa.) and the Westinghouse company during the past several years have coöperated in a joint program of graduate study for certain designated employees of the company. Besides being of distinct benefit to the individual employee, this work has had a highly stimulating influence upon the faculty members of the university connected with it, and the results have been most gratifying to the industry."
"A rectangular coördinate potentiometer circuit is described in this paper, the chief features of which are the elimination of the usual phase shifting transformer and the slide-wire type of potentiometer resistor. Although not yet available in commercial form this potentiometer has been in use in the laboratory for several years with good results, particularly in magnetic measurements at low and medium inductions and in measurements of the power factor of capacitors."
"This paper describes and explains the theory of the Feed-back principle and demonstrates how stability of amplification, reduction of modulation products, and certain other advantages follow when stabilized feed-back is applied to an amplifier. The underlying principle of design by means of which ``singing'' is avoided also is set Forth. The paper concludes with some examples of results obtained on amplifiers which have been built employing this new principle."
"A brief description of cast iron and a comparison of the 2 processes used to produce it are given in this paper. The cost of cast iron produced either by the cupola or the electric furnace is the same. The electric furnace permits superheating and the production of iron of any composition with accurate control. On the other hand, the cupola is limited to the production of high carbon Iron. As a result of the success of electric melting, the field of application of cast iron has been greatly Increased."
"Steady state characteristics of synchronous machines of normal design are affected appreciably by changes in magnetic saturation. In this paper the efect of saturation is included in the derivation of the equations for determining steady state performance. It is shown that a saturated machine under steady state conditions, and for small changes from the original operating point, can be replaced for purposes of calculation by an unsaturated machine."
"The electric furnace of the rocking type with indirect arc has been developed to the point where it may be used not only For the melting of nonferrous metals but also in the production of castings of various types of iron and steel. Accurate control of the process is possible. Many new cast irons may thus be produced with qualities greatly superior to the cast iron which may be produced by any other means."
"Some of the more important technical problems involved in connecting rotating machines directly to overhead electric power transmission lines are discussed in this paper. Methods are developed for protecting the ground and turn insulations Protecting the ground and turn insulations of the armatures of such machines which may be subjected to surge voltages. The ground insulation can be protected by lightning arresters; the turn insulation by sloping off the incoming surge. Methods sloping off the incoming surge. Methods are given for determining the maximum allowable rate of rise of voltage at the machine terminals, and the apparatus needed to limit the rate of rise to that value."
"A SYMPOSIUM on switching power at modern large generating plants is included on the program of the Institute's forthcoming winter convention. Five papers, each describing the facilities at one such plant, are to be discussed. Three of these papers are included in this issue, the other 2 having been included in the December 1933 issue. The following article serves as an introduction to this symposium."
"A station having several unique features, including an outdoor oil-filled metal-clad 22-kv switchgear for main generator bus is referred to in this paper. The station forms an important link in a large and intricate transmission and distribution system. This paper is part of a symposium on electric power switching at modern large steam-electric generating plants."
"The essential features of the switching facilities at 13 kv and 66 kv at the Richmond generating station of the Philadelphia Electric Company are described. Operating experiences with such facilities are outlined and certain desirable improvements in future design are indicated. This paper is part of a symposium on electric power switching at modern large steam-electric plants."
"A description of the switching facilities at Essex station, adjacent to the Connors Creek generating plant of The Detroit (Mich.) Edison Company, is given this paper, which is part of a symposium on electric power switching at modern large steam-electric generating plants. Essex station, which has been in operation less than 2 years, has had an unusually good service record."
"With impulse voltage testing of electrical equipment becoming more widely used, it seems highly desirable to be able to calculate the circuit constants required to produce the desired test waves and to calculate the waves that any given circuit constants will give. In this paper the solution of the more commonly used impulse generator circuits is developed and summarized. Waves calculated by these formulas check closely the waves actually recorded by the cathode ray oscillograph."
"A portable Schering bridge which is applicable for power factor, dielectric loss, and capacitance tests on condenser bushings and other equipment of higher capacitance in the field is described in this paper, and operating procedure is given. Such tests are desirable for forestalling failures of equipment. Although earlier power factor tests on bushings have been made in the field, this is probably the first application of the Schering bridge to field tests."
"Improvements have been made in practically every part of pantograph trolleys used for current collection on electric railways. As a result of these many improvements the pantograph of most recent design fulfills its important function in a highly satisfactory manner. Designs now are available for collecting currents of any magnitude found on either a-c or d-c roads at any speed up to 100 mph."
"Satisfactory current collection on electric railways using pantograph trolleys depends on the ability of the pantograph to follow irregularities in the height of the contact wire at all operating speeds and within a limited range of pressures between the contact wire and the shoe. In this paper operating characteristics of pantograph collectors are outlined, and operating data for 3 typical pantographs are given."
"In language understandable by the average electrical engineer, this paper presents a brief outline of the theory of the electric induction furnace and of the application of that theory to the operating characteristics and limitations of such furnaces. From a metallurgical standpoint the chief advantages associated with the use of induction furnaces are: freedom from contamination of the melt, the high temperatures obtainable, and the circulation of the molten charge by the electromagnetic forces within it. The immediate acceptance by the industry of this comparatively new melting tool indicates that more extensive use of high frequency induced heat is to be expected in the future."
"By means of the automatic switching of potential connections to distance relays according to type of fault, each distance relay may be made to do the work of 2 or 3 such relays. The cost of distance relay installations may be reduced considerably by this automatic control of potential connections, and consequently their use should become more widespread."
"A communication system for the pick-up and reproduction in auditory perspective of symphonic music must be designed properly with respect to the acoustics of the pick-up auditorium and the concert hall involved. The reverberation times and sound distribution in the two auditoriums, the location of the microphones and loud speakers, and the response-frequency calibration of the system and its equalization are considered. These and other important factors entering into the problem are treated in this, the sixth and final paper of the symposium."
"Recounts the careers and contrbutions of Calvert Townley,  Kempster Blanchard Miller,  John Franklin Stevens,  T. Herbert Clegg,  Thorburn Reid, Veator David Mendenhall, and William Fenner Lamme."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of December 20, 1933, recommended the following list of members presented here for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Operational claculus is useful in both the formulation and solution of the differential equations involved in engineering problems, and because of its power and directness it is finding increasing favor in engineering analysis. It is especially helpful to the electrical engineer because many of his problems involve transients, the analysis of which requires the solution of differential equations. In this article is presented not a popular treatment of operational calculus (several of which already have been published), but rather a brief survey of the historical development, an introduction to the background, and a summary of the threads of rigorous analysis that bind the many processes into a rational and systematic whole. This is the tenth in a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"The application of the grid-controlled gasfilled, or \"thyratron,\" electronic tube to relay practice, principally for the protection of transmission lines, is considered in this paper. Several different types of these relays are discussed under the 2 principal classifications of \"normal\" design and high speed relays. This paper by Doctor Wideroe, based upon European practice, should be of considerable interest in this country."
"The A.I.E.E. transformer subcommittee* has planned an extension of the scope of the Institute publication relating to the operation of transformers to include recommendations for the short-time overloading of oil-immersed transformers in service. These recommendations take advantage of the heat storage capacities of the materials of the transformer to supplement present recommendations relating to the continuous overloading that is possible when the ambient temperature is lower than the standard ambient temperature. This report gives a brief review of the considerations upon which the proposed changes are based and includes the new material in the form in which the subcommittee has prepared it. it is submitted to the Institute for constructive criticism."
"By introducing new courses and new methods of instruction, engineering education is meeting the challenge of industry to teach engineers how to solve problems involving economic and social as well as engineering aspects. A few of the steps already taken or contemplated in this direction by several leading engineering colleges are outlined in this paper."
"Associate membership in the Institute. The various factors which enter into a determinationthofe temperatures in turbine generator rotors are discussed in this paper, and a method of calculating temperatures is given. It is shown that a large number of variables can be taken into account in a relatively simple manner and that the method can be applied with accuracy to all sizes and types of turbine generator rotors."
"A new type of timer and controller for use in the Field of resistance welding of thin alloy sheets of brass, aluminum, stainless steel, and kindred metals where a very high current is applied for a very short interval of time is described in this paper. In this new timer, the ``ignitron'' type of tube is applied for obtaining precise control of the welding current. Controls for intermittent duty, high speed automatic duty, and heavy duty seam welding are described."
"In this paper systems are described whereby frequency band widths of the order of 1,000 kc or more may be transmitted for long distances over coaxial lines and utilized For purposes of multiplex telephony or television. A coaxial line is a metal tube surrounding a central conductor and separated from it by insulating supports."
"A welding rectifier embodying the ``ignitron'' principle, a recent development in a program of research on mercury arc rectifiers, provides predetermined welding currents for periods of time variable in steps of 20 sec, or less if desired. This paper describes the design and operation of the ``ignitron'' and illustrates its applicability to the problems involved in line welding processes."
"The operation of inverters for obtaining alternating current from direct current is first considered in this paper, both the grid controlled rectifier and the \"ignitron,\" a special type of mercury vapor tube, being analyzed. The duty on the inverter tube is next discussed, and special attention is then given to the \"ignitron\" inverter. Experimental results obtained with this latter type of inverter are given."
"Studies of the dielectric properties of pure cellulose paper as used for high voltage insulation are reported in this paper. The studies reported in Part I, presented herewith, include investigation of the dielectric loss, phase difference, and capacitance of paper insulated specimens as related to the moisture content of the paper. In Part II, which is scheduled for publication in a subsequent issue, these studies are extended to the variations in dielectric properties as related to temperature when the paper is extremely dry."
"On these and the following 25 pages appear discussions of technical papers presented during the sessions on electrical machinery and education of the A.I.E.E. summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 25-29, 1934. All discussions received in complete and acceptable form at Institute headquarters within 2 weeks after the convention, and subsequently reviewed by the technical committees and recommended for publication, are included. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the ends of the discussions on their respective papers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Electrical properties of mercury vapor and monatomic gases are discussed from a theoretical standpoint in this article. In the first part of the article, the author discusses briefy the elementary processes of excitation and ionization of atoms upon which the electrical properties of gases depend. With this insight into the fundamental processes as a 1, ackground, the author discusses in Part lIthe electrical conductivity of gases under various conditions. This is the eleventh in a series of special articles prepared under sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"Because of the scarcity of published records of lightning performance of 220-kv power transmission lines, the A.I.E.E. lightning and insulator subcommittee* has attempted to collect such data by means of a questionnaire sent to the various companies operating 220-kv lines in the United States and Canada. The data thus obtained is summarized in this paper."
"Developments in vapor conducting light sources made both in European and Amenican practice are outlined in this paper. The various types of sodium and other vapo arc lamps are considered, together with the principal Factors affecting their operation."
"The amplification obtainable in a vacuum tube amplifier is limited by the noise in the circuit. Of the various sources of noise the most fundamental and inevitable is thermal agitation of electricity. Other sources are the influence of ions and of shot effect and flicker effect on the current in vacuum tubes, poor contacts, mechanical vibration, and hum from a-c cathode heating. These noises and their effects in limiting amplification are discussed in this paper. Although the natural noise level of an amplifier is exceedingly low, modern amplifiers have reached such a stage of perfection that their noise levels often are practically at the natural limit."
"The high velocity streams of particles in the vacuum arc have been subjected to a detailed study, and the results are presented in this paper, together with a discussion of many of the phenomena involved. Experimental determinations of the relations between arc current, mass of condensed metal, electrodes, and velocity of the vapor stream are included. Results with several different electrode materials are presented."
"Gasoline and Diesel electric equipment used for motive power on rail cars and locomotives is considered in this paper. The more important problems such as the securing of a suitable method of drive for Diesel electric locomotives are considered especially for heavy railway work. A comparison of Diesel electric with steam and with electric locomotives is given, and possible future developments are indicated."
"Losses in induction machines have been subjected to a detailed study by many investigators, but due to the complex nature of some of these losses, particularly several forms of load loss in induction motors, a clear understanding of their nature, has not been available. Since the majority of such losses are connected with the magnetic flux in the machine, a study of the distribution of magnetic flux in the stator and rotor is necessary; such a study is presented herewith. The flux losses considered are divided into 2 groups, those occurring at the fundamental frequency, and those occurring at tooth frequency."
"A new high-resistance ``thyrite'' and a new 3-element cold-cathode tube having unusual characteristics constitute the basic elements in a new high voltage relay combination for relaying or detecting ground faults on ungrounded systems. This scheme of protection, as described herein, is characterized by its reliability, simplicity, sensitivity, and low cost. It has been found to be particularly valuable in network applications."
"A method of measuring the stress distribution in transmission line conductors caused by vibrations under actual service conditions, and the effect thereon of various attachments, is outlined in this paper. Measurements have been made of the attenuation of traveling waves in conductors, reflection factors of supports, ratio of the bending at a clamp to that in mid span, effect of vertical rigidity of the support, impact effect of traveling waves, stress division effected by a rocking clamp, and other items. Some records of aeolian vibrations are included which indicate a periodic recurrence or similar groups or waves at time intervals equal to the double-span time-interval of a traveling wave."
"Physical principles underlying the characteristics and performance of multielectrode vacuum tubes are presented in simple form in this paper. The subject is presented from the viewpoint of those having an understanding of the physical principles of the ordinary triode or 3-element tube, but not having a similarly clear understanding of the more complex structures. Detailed analyses of the characteristics of several types of multielectrode tubes are given."
"Studies of the dielectric properties of pure cellulose paper as related to its moisture content were reported in Part I of this paper, which was published in the October issue. In Part II, presented herewith, the variations in dielectric properties as related to temperature are discussed. These investigations not only throw additional light on the theoretical aspects of dielectric absorption, but also reveal information of practical importance to cable manufacturers."
"Vacuum tubes as oscillators and amplifiers at frequencies greater than 100 megacycles (3 m) are considered in this paper. The type of construction used in a large number of different tubes, and the characteristics of the tubes, are presented. Circuits for operating the tubes also are considered and the theory of operation and the Factors limiting ultra-high frequencies are discussed. Principal attention is given to the tubes as oscillators, with brief consideration of the problem of amplification."
"A new type of motor in which a scheme involving electronic tubes is used to perform a function similar to that of a commutator is described in this paper. The motor operates at variable speed and is supplied from a 3-phase power system. A 400-hp motor of this type has been built and is ready For commercial use."
"On this and the following 17 pages appear discussions of papers presented at the 1934 AIEE summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 25-29, as follows: (1) one paper presented at the session on electrical machinery (closure); (2) one paper presented at the session on power generation; (3) all papers presented at the session on automatic stations; and (4) all papers presented at the session on insulators. All discussions on the foregoing papers (except that in item No. 1) received in complete and acceptable form at Institute headquarters, and subsequently reviewed and recommended for publication by AIEE technical committees, are included. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the ends of the discussion on their respective papers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Field theory, as contradistinct to circuit theory, is shown in this article to become increasingly important in a large number of engineering problems. In addition to the more familiar electric and magnetic fields there are temperature, mechanical stress, hydraulic flow, and other field concepts all reducible to the same mathematical basis. An outline of some of the methods employed in dealing with stationary fields is presented in this paper, conjugate functional methods and conformal representation being considered in detail, preceded by a brief consideration of experimental reproduction, graphical mapping, and mathematical solutions of field problems. This is the twelfth of a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"An analysis of the characteristics of a group of development and research engineers is presented in this paper. From this analysis an attempt is made to point out the weaknesses that were responsible for some men being released during this period of abnormal business conditions, and, conversely, to show the elements of strength that permitted others to be retained. Such an analysis should be helpful not only to the young engineer entering industry and to the teachers who have prepared him, but also to his employers."
"To serve as a guide in the standardization of of electronic tubes, the principal factors involved in the choice of tube ratings together with the more important terms commonly used, are presented in this paper. High vacuum tubes, gas and vapor filled tubes, and photo-electric tubes are considered separately, and the large number of factors which enter into the ratings of each of these 3 classes of tubes are discussed."
"The resistance and reactance of 3-conductor cables under balanced 3-phase loads have been studied in a series of tests in different laboratories, and the results are presented in this paper. Values of these constants are given for different types and sizes of 3-conductor cable, and the effects on the constants of several different factors are presented."
"Two types of students, one fundamentaly interested only in engineering, and the other more deeply interested in and capable of leadership, are considered in this paper. For both, a broader training in the humanities is urged. Among the numerous points which it is stated should be brought to the attention of the student engineer is the necessity of realizing that human relatoniships, which cannot be reduced to a science, are among the most important considerations in later life."
"A nonmathematical discussion of the mechanism whereby energy may be transmitted over long distances at high frequencies by the use of ``coaxial conductors'' is presented in this paper. A coaxial system consists of a cylindrical conducting tube within which a smaller conductor is coaxially placed. Such conductors, which reduce interference and cross-talk are applicable for the transmission of telephone, telegraph, and television signals over a very wide range of frequencies."
"A brief review of several important revisions and extensions of the A.I.E.E. standards for transformers recommended by the A.I.E.E. transformer subcommittee is presented herewith, in order that those interested may have an opportunity to become familiar with these recommendations and to offer helpful criticism before action on final standards is taken."
"Formulas For determining the unbalance in load of 3 dissimilar single phase transformers operating 3 phase, delta-delta connected."
"The fundamentals of d-c arc welding generators are reviewed in this paper, and the effect of transient current and voltages upon performance is described. It is then shown how the transients may be controlled by internal arrangements which reduce the induced voltages in the stator circuit and at the same time increase the series reactance of both the field and armature circuits. A new welding generator designed with these features is next described; it is a modification of the split pole type of self-excited machine. Also, comments on the technique of testing welding generators are presented."
"From the results of an investigation on a typical large electric power system it is concluded that the specification of tolerable noise in transformers by means of measurements with commercially available noise meters is entirely practicable. The problems involved in this investigation and the principal results obtained are presented and discussed in this paper."
"Several distinctive types of cathode ray tubes are described In ths paper, starting with a brief description of the Braun type and followed by more detailed descriptions of recently developed types. The characteristics, the selection for a given application, and the operation of sealed-off gas-focused types and of high vacuum types are discussed. Also auxiliary apparatus is considered; and applications of cathode ray tubes are suggested briefly."
"Efects of overloading on the life of oilimmersed self-cooled power transformers are discussed in this paper. Experience has shown that under average loads and ambient temperatures, a transformer rated for a temperature rise of 55 degrees C, has a very long life, and can be overloaded considerably for short periods with little loss in life."
"A universal measuring instrument for communication circuits has been developed which has a number of advantages over previous methods of obtaining measurements in such circuits. This thermionictube instrument gives direct measurements of current, voltage, power factor, or power in communication circuits and is accurate over a wide range ot frequencies."
"An analysis and summary of some of the concrete problems and considerations involved in the measurement of noise caused by fractional horse power motors are presented in this paper. Some experimental data and several important conclusions are given, but much remains to be done befoe standardization is possible. Desirable characteristics of a noise meter for this application tion are pointed out."
"Several different types of tests For the efficiency of induction machines are discussed in this paper, and results obtained by the different methods are compared. The procedure involved in making the different types of tests is given in detail. In the determination of losses, special attention is given to the stray load loss, which, in most previous tests, has not been considered."
"Multiple lightning strokes have long been known to exist, but so far instruments for recording the successive discharges on electric power lines have not been available. The application of expulsion protective gaps to 3 typical transmission lines, however, has made a partial Investigation possible, with the aid of the automatic oscillograph. The results of this investigation are presented herewith. As many as 12 successive discharges have been recorded in a single stroke; these discharges have been as close together as 1 cycle (on a 60 cycle system) and as far apart as 9.5 cycles."
"The effect that the shape of electrodes has on the dielectric strength of air when subjected to impulse and 60 cycle voltage waves is considered in this paper. Principal attention is given to rod and plate electrodes and to sphere and plate electrodes, comparative data on the different types being given. Among other factors, the effect of polarity on breakdown voltage is brought out. These data on strength of air between various electrode shapes are correlated into working principles and presented from the standpoint of the design engineer interested in their application."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Presents the table of contents for this supplement to the periodical."
"Laboratory tests indicate that solid graphitic material for trolley wire lubrication is vastly superior to the graphite-grease now commonly used for that purpose. Tests under practical operating conditions now are being made on a 210-mile electrified portion of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul, and Pacific Railroad. This paper discusses briefly the general problem of trolley wire lubrication, and presents results of tests on both graphite-grease and solid lubricant."
"Important Features that should be considered in designing transformers, for supplying power to electric furnaces, are pointed out in this paper. The extremely high secondary currents and low secondary voltages, together with the wide variation in voltage required by many furnaces, demand special design considerations in both the transformer and its associated equipment."
"A study of the connections and methods of operation of the long Beach steam plant No. 3, part of the system of the Southern California Edison Company Ltd. gives considerable information on desirable methods of switching at modern large generating plants. This paper, part of a symposium on switching at modern large generating plants, presents the problems for one plant."
"Fundamental economic factors involved in the design of systems for delivering electric energy to typical urban load areas are discussed and analyzed in this paper. The fundamental principles presented already have been applied in a practical way in the design of a radial system recently built in Buffalo, N. Y. Engineering studies upon which the selection of that system was based led to the conclusion that for areas of load densities too low to justify a low voltage network, a properly designed radial system is likely to be the most economical and satisfactory system."
"The 3-phase electric arc furnace has established itself definitely as an important industrial unit in the production of ferrous materials. With the efficiency of the arc furnace being increased, and with the overall cost of installation and operation now being comparable with that of an equivalent open hearth, an even more extensive application is indicated for the future. This classification, rating, and methods of operation of 3-phase arc furnaces, outlines some of the modern developments in design, and points out the relative advantages of these units in specific applications."
"Carbon and graphite electrodes play an important part in many industries; the number of uses of these electrodes is increasing year by year, and the Field of application is widening. In spite of these Facts, however, published information regarding them appears to be quite meager. In this paper the history of carbon and graphite electrodes is outlined briefly, and the methods of manufacture and industrial applications are described."
"The power Selsyn unit, an adaptation of the wound rotor Induction motor, provides accurate remote control of angular motion, using only an electrical connection. The characteristics of these units are described briefly in this paper, and methods of calculating their performance are offered. Typical applications of Selsyn drives also are given."
"A sequel to an earlier paper by Carroll and Cozzens concerning corona loss measurements for the design of transmission lines, this paper presents data resulting from comparative tests on 6 different designs of 1.4-in. conductor, the size selected for a 275-kv transmission line from Boulder Dam to Los Angeles. Data covers 3-phase, singlephase, and rain tests, and adds materially to the corona loss data previously reported."
"This paper treats the loci of potential difference across tne midpoints of a 4-arm network with constant coefficients and constant applied voltage. When the network is operated at constant frequency and any one of its arms varies along one of its components or at constant phase angle, the locus of potential difference is a circle. When the network arms remain fixed and the frequency is varied, the locus may or may not be a single circle and in many instances may be expressed as the sum of 2 circles or a circle and a bicircular quartic. To illustrate the practical application of this work, the analytical treatment and numerical results are given for typical networks."
"Part of a symposium on switching at modern large generating plants, this work includes a description of the switching Facilities at the Hudson Avenue station of the Brooklyn (NY, USA) Edison Company. Operating experience obtained with the connections and equipment used also is given."
"The conventional theory explaining the attenuation and distortion of traveling waves is not adequate to explain many peculiarities found to exist in such waves, In this paper there is developed a multi-conductor multi-velocity theory of traveling waves which more completely explains wave behavior. The conventional traveling wave theory is shown to be a special case of this more general theory."
"A method of maintaining constant voltage at the load center of a transmission system, utilizing load ratio control equipment in combination with fixed capacitors, is described in this paper. This method combines the desirable performance characteristics of both the synchronous condenser and load ratio control methods, and in some cases results in appreciable savings in overall system losses."
"A plan has been developed for joint occupancy of poles by power and telephone circuits in the Staten Island, N. Y., area, involving 6,900-volt distriution. The aim of this plan is to secure to the public and to the power and telephone companies overall safety, convenience, and economy. Results of this coöperative study of joint use are presented in this paper."
"Measurements of impedance made on 5 sizes of rails and on 2 types of bonds are reported in this paper; the investigation covered a range of current per rail of 20 to 900 amp, and frequencies of 1 5 to 60 cycles per second. Results are given in a form convenient for engineering use, and include information for applying corrections For bond impedance and For temperature."
"Counterpoises are recommended for protecting electric power transmission lines against damage from lightning surges where other methods do not reduce the tower footing surge impedance to the desired level. In this paper a physical explanation of the theory or counterpoises is given together with an analytical solution of parallel counterpoise problems. Or the 2 types studied, the parallel counterpoise is shown to be the more effective."
"This article presents a practicable and comparatively simple means of determining the ability of an electric power transmission system to withstand any type of short circuit at any single point of the system without losing synchronism. The method is one that enables an engineer without much special training in handling stability problems to obtain quite accurate solutions with a reasonable expenditure of time."
"For the transmission of power from Boulder Dam to the system of the Southern California Edison Company, numerous studies were made to determine the power limits of various designs of transmission lines, and the maximum generating capacity that could be installed safely at Boulder Dam without incurring instability. These studies were made for various design features and types of load and faults. The results of the studies are presented in this paper, a description of the method used being included in the appendixes."
"This paper presents methods for determining steady state power limits of electric power systems composed of shunt impedance loads and any number of ideal cylindricalrotor synchronous machines. In order to apply these methods to practical system, the actual machines are represented by equivalent ideal machines corresponding to a give operating condition. The methods are said to be simpler and easier to apply than previous methods."
"Composite loads and induction machines are included in the study of steady state stability characteristics of power systems reported in this paper. Reactive power characteristics must be considered when induction machines are involved in addition to the real power characteristics which are considered for synchronous machine groups. A determination of the synchronizing power coefficients under various operating conditions, as described herein, provides a comparatively simple method of determining the safe and dangerous regions of steady state operation."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"In view of the widespread occurrence and the current technical importance of the various manifestations of free electricity in gases, this article appropriately reviews current knowledge concerning the nature of such free charges, how they arise from the normally uncharged atoms and molecules of a gas, and their relation to light radiation. This is the third in a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, and the first of three that will deal with the major divisions of the general subject of electric discharges in gases; the second will deal with the laws governing the movement of free charges through a gas, and the third will discuss known types of discharges in the light of the basic processes which by that time will have been set forth in these columns.-Editor"
"A series of accelerated life tests on 14 different oils as used for the impregnation of one grade of cable insulating paper is described herein. Complete absence of gaseous ionization was insured in these tests. It is shown that there is a definite relationship between the life of impregnated paper under stress, and the capillary constant of the oil. With oils of one dernite type, the life of the paper increases with penetrative power. Between oils of different types, there may be differences in the relation of penetrative power to lie. the relation of penetrative power to life. The influence of dielectric loss on life is negligible, and the values of power factor during life tests appear to have no relation to, life. to life."
"Effects of external impedance on short-circuit currents in synchronous machines and in networks are discussed in this article. The material presented is not claimed to be new; its chief value lies in the confirmation of calculations by test results, which tends to increase confidence in formulas previously developed. The formulas and test data are given in a form convenient for ready reference."
"Penetrability studies have been made to measure the wetting of dielectrics, in an effort to secure information on the electrical characteristics of impregnated fibrous structures. The results of these studies are discussed in this article, which includes studies of the penetration of water, benzene, and several insulating materials."
"A method of locating ground faults on electric power transmission lines has been developed wherein the location of a fault can be determined accurately and conveniently from the percentage distribution of ground current fed into the fault from the 2 ends of the line. This method has been applied to the Pennsylvania-New Jersey 220-kv interconnection since 1930; results obtained indicate a large saving in time and expense over what normally would be involved in locating the faults by previous methods."
"No current rupturing device is provided between pantograph and main transformer on electric locomotives recently placed in operation on the Pennsylvania Railroad; instead a ``pantograph relay'' is used which is connected so as to utilize the substation circuit breakers to open high voltage short circuits, grounds, or overloads ofi the locomotive. A voltage relay is used to change the field strength of the traction motors at a predetermined speed, and slip relays provide protection against wheel slippage."
"Design features of the Port Washington power plant serving the Milwaukee area are described in this article, which covers both steam and electric equiapment. Summaries of certain economic studies which formed the basis for decisions are included, but no statistical information on the various pieces of equipment is given. The initial installation includes an 80,000-kw unit, utilizing 1,230-lb steam pressure, and 825 deg F steam temperature."
"In previous investigations of corona loss on electric conductors, variations in loss were observed that were believed to be caused by daily variations in atmospheric conditions. Consequently, a series of tests was made to investigate the effects of humidity, pressure, temperature, and smoke; the results are given in this article."
"Among the benefits obtained by the cabling of telephone circuits is the substantial reduction in magnetically induced voltages that can be realized from the shielding action of the lead sheath. Even greater shielding is attainable if the cable is provided with a steel armor or is installed in conduit. In this paper is preiron pipe conduit. In this paper is presented a method for the quantitative prediction of the electromagnetic shielding effected by such iron-surrounded telephone cable sheaths, experimental verification of its applicability, and the necessary impedance data for its utilization."
"In this article are analyzed the effects of increasing the rate of acceleration, free running speed, and rate of braking upon the energy consumption of multiple unit electric passenger cars. Analyses of 4 typical one-mile runs are given."
"The characteristics and stability of performance of the control springs used in electrical measuring instruments are important factors in the accuracy of such instruments. Supplementing the slight amount of published information on this subject, the following article presents some of the manufacturing knowledge necessary for the production of instrument springs of high quality."
"A loading-back test has been used for the determination of the stray load losss in polyphase induction machines. This test, which was found to have a high degree of accuracy, enables the various losses to be separated. The application of the test is simple and convenient."
"An optical system designed to permit simultaneous viewing and photographing has been incorporated in a new portable oscillograph which is rugged in construction and weighs but 22 lb. It is particularly adapted For observing and photographing recurrent wave forms and certain types of transient phenomena. This oscillograph should find many fields of application where the refinements of present larger types are not required."
"Design of a feeder voltage regulator having no moving parts, and a method of improving alternator stability are discussed in this article. Both schemes utilize nonlinear inductive circuits and were developed by the authors while they were undergraduate students."
"A recent investigation into the behavior of Lichtenberg figures and streamers extending out from an electrode resting on a glass plate coated on the opposite side with tin foil is reported in this paper. The new data offered throw considerable light on the formation and characteristics of these interesting figures."
"The effect of high oil pressure upon the electrical strength of cable insulation has been subjected to a series of tests which are reported in this paper. These tests show that an increase in pressure will result in an increase in the breakdown voltage, the magnitude depending upon the time duration of the test. Although in the long time tests breakdown voltage was doubled by pressure increased from 1 to 6 atmospheres, no improvement was secured with impulse tests by a pressure increase up to 11 atmospheres."
"A study of voltage regulation and load distribution is given in this section of the author's work on power system primary networks, solutions of practical operating problems under both normal and abnormal conditions being given. Simple equations are presented to enable the distribution engineer to determine the proper settings of compensators and contact-making voltmeters; and other practical problems are discussed and answered."
"Magnetic tests on silicon steel at 60 cycles with superposed d-c excitation are described in this article. The results, which are expressed in the form of curves, constitute an addition to existing data on this subject, and should be helpful to designers of apparatus in which combined alternating and direct Magnetic fields exist."
"The range of the high speed air circuit breaker has been extended to a 10,000-amp 750-volt d-c continuous rating. It is particularly adaptable to railway systems, and in this larger rating, a single unit has ample capacity for the largest size conversion units now available for 600-volt service. A description of the new circuit breaker is given in this article."
"Energy consumption on a street railway is affected by several variable factors; but because of their interrelation, it has been difficult to determine the separate effect of any one of these variables. A prolonged and detailed study on the railway property of the St. Louis (Mo.) Public Service Company, however, has resulted in the determination of relationships between energy consumption and weather conditions, passenger loading, and speed."
"A set of decrement curves useful in determining the magnitude of short-circuit currents on power systems has been calculated, based upon assumptions somewhat different from those used for previous decrement curves. These changes are intended to increase in usefulness of such curves and extend their range of application. Proper selection of oil circuit breakers and the determination of relay setting may be facilitated by the use of these curves."
"In this paper are discussed some of the problems of the transformer design engineer in regard to the effect of different winding arrangements, and some of the means employed to predetermine transformer reactance and to keep stray losses at a minimum. A reactance model has been developed to assist the transformer design engineer in checking reactance and stray loss calculations."
"The importance of using regular windings in polyphase wound rotor induction motors is stressed in this paper. Harmful effects upon the efficiency, power factor, breakdown torque and noise of the motor may result with an irregular winding, due to differential leakage. The Goerges diagram of tooth fluxes is presented for studying this phenomenon. Means of avoiding trouble of this sort also are pointed out. It is further observed that 3-phase motors having a number of poles which is a multiple of 6 are most likely to be troublesome."
"A simpified method of calculating the reactance and eddy current losses of transformers with nonuniformly distributed windings is presented in this paper. The method has been in use for several years and has yielded highly satisfactory results."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The extent of the contribution that can be made by any organization such as the Institute is determined by the soundness of its business policies. The furtherance of its aims, to promote technological advancement and the best interests of its membership, is predicated upon its ability so to manage its affairs that it may foster uninterruptedly those activities that are consistent with the purposes for which it exists. It is important that its members be qualified technically, if advances in the electrical art are to be made, but it is just as important that the members have knowledge of the financial aspects of the Institute's affairs if they would be equally qualified to promote the well-being of the institution which concerns itself not only with technical matters, but also with the improvement of the professional status of those engaged in electrical engineering."
"Scientific men cannot stand aside and ignore the vast political and social experiments being conducted during the present period of accelerated social change. It is not necessary or even desirable, however, that professional scientific men abandon their laboratories and attempt to deal with executive problems; but it is necessary that they expound insistently the nature of scientific thought and study its application to social and political problems. Engineers and scientists are urged to deal with problems of social reconstruction as they deal with other problems, pinning their faith on those methods of reasoning that have proved so successful in analyzing all types of natural phenomena."
"This article is a review of some of the established facts and accepted theories pertaining to the behavior of ions in dense gases, supplementing the article that appeared in last month's issue reviewing current knowledge concerning ionization and excitation, and preparing the way for next month's article which will discuss various types of electric discharges in the light of the basic processes set forth in this and the preceding article. This is the fourth of a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, and the second of three devoted to the major divisions of the general subject of electric discharges in gases. Full details concerning this series of articles are given on p. 238 of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for February 1934. -Editor."
"Social advantages and disadvantages of the engineering-scientific approach to civilization are discussed in this article, which includes full text of an address delivered at a meeting American Association for the Advancement of Science held in Boston, Mass., December 8, 1933. The engineer is urged to apply the precision of his thinking and his honesty in facing facts to the more complex situations that concern living organisms and our social life."
"In the experiments reported here the authors have studied the relations involved in the maximal efect of electric shock, which is death. These experiments were conducted on rats; the relations of duration, current intensity, and frequency were studied. The results afford an explanation of the common observation that death from high voltage usually is cardiac in origin, and from low voltage respiratory in origin."
"The following authorized statement of the actions taken at the Paris meeting of the committee on electric and magnetic magnitudes and units of the International Electrotechnical Commission, prepared by Dr. A. E. Kennelly, chairman of the E.M.M.U. committee, is based upon the minutes of the meeting, as circulated among the various I.E.C. national committees. This statement, distributed by the I.E.C. General Secretariat in London, is, however, necessarily subsidiary to the official minutes (I.E.C. document R.M. 105) which should be consulted by those particularly interested."
"Steam ejector refrigeration for railroad passenger car air conditioning has been proved to be practicable. Equipment of this type which has been developed and thoroughly tested is described in this article."
"Shunt resistors applied to current limiting reactors used on large electric power systems function to reduce voltages caused by reflections and oscillations, to provide an avenue of escape for bus disturbance, and to reduce the voltages across the reactors. To be suitable for this purpose, a resistor must have an inverse characteristic such that its resistance during short circuits is many times that during transient conditions. The material known to the trade as \"thyrite\" fulfills these requirements admirably. calculating the effects of such a resistor, with results given in convenient curve form, is presented in this paper."
"In the past, the solution of the transients in magnetic systems with solid cores has been carried out by assuming that the radial distribution of flux in other portions of the magnetic circuit is the same as in the solid portion. This paper presents a more precise mathematical analysis, the purpose of which is to determine the limits for which the foregoing assumption applies, and also to determine the nature of the phenomena for other cases in which that assumption is not permissible."
"This paper, Part II of a group on theory of primary electric power distribution networks, deals with short-circuit and relay problems. Data showing the distribution of fault currents for both 3-phase and ground Faults is presented, and a rational method of relaying based upon that data is discussed and analyzed."
"The calculation of the most economical division of load between generating units and power plants is of considerable importance on large inter-connected systems. The most complete analysis of the subject of load division published to date is contained in the present paper, which shows that the method of incremental rates gives the division of load which is the most economical. Both the basic theory and the practical application of the method are contained in this paper. An outline is given in the accompanying table of contents."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In the light of basic processes discussed in the 2 previous articles of this group, this article reviews some facts and current theories concerning the various classes of self-maintained electric discharges in gases. This is the concluding article of a group of 3 devoted to the general subject of electric discharges in gases, the 2 previous articles having reviewed current knowledge concerning ionization and excitation, and ions in dense gases, respectively; it is the fifth of a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, for full details concerning which see p. 238 of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for February 1934.-Editor"
"A study of the type of engineering graduate who will most satisfactorily meet the demands of industry and will be best adapted to present social conditions is contained in this paper. As a result of this analysis, changes in the type of college instruction now given are proposed. It is pointed out that the majority of students should be given a broad education which coördinates instruction in science, engineering, economics, and psychology, so as to fit the graduate for the managerial positions in industry; while a smaller group should be given specialized scientific and engineering instruction."
"The present theory of electric conduction in solid conductors and semiconductors is reviewed here by a recognized authority who interprets some of the results of modern physical research in the light of their bearing upon the theory of electric conductivity. First the author gives a short review of the present theory, then discusses the breakdown of ionic crystals, the quantum theory, and cold discharge phenomena."
"A brief description of the deep sea telephone circuit laid in 1932 between Italy and the island of Sardinia is contained in this article."
"Some recent developments in the protection of electric power systems to meet the special problems on the system of the Southern California Edison Company, Ltd., are discussed in this paper. Among these developments are means to provide greater protection against high resistance faults, a simplified carrier current pilot protection scheme, a method of automatic system separation when out-of-step conditions occur, and several miscellaneous applications."
"Predetermination of the bend in the locked saturation curves of squirrel cage induction motors is becoming increasingly necessary for design. The reasons why this curve for design. The reasons why this curve deviates from a straight line are discussed in this paper, and a method of attacking the problem is given. Results calculated by this method for a number of machines are compared with the tested results. It is shown that the work involved in using the formulas and curves presented is not excessive."
"Some recent developments in power line carrier telephone equipment that greatly enhance the value of this type of communication are described in this paper. Two outstanding developments have been an automatic volume control, and means for interconnecting the carrier circuits with 2-wire telephone facilities. In addition, much has been achieved in lowering installation and maintenance costs, and in improving reliability of operation."
"In testing various types of apparatus used in electrical communication circuits, it is often desirable to obtain a single average reading over a range of frequencies. For this purpose a ``warble'' tone, or a tone the frequency of which varies cyclically over the desired range, is used. In this paper is described a new type of electronic tube warble tone generator which utilizes a ``relaxation'' oscillator and has no mechanically moving parts."
"Radio programs are regularly transmitted between broadcasting stations over wire line facilities furnished by the Bell System. Both cable and open wire facilities are employed for this service. Recently a new program transmission system for use on open wire lines has been developed which has highly satisfactory characteristics. A description of this open wire system and test results obtained with it are given in this paper."
"Open wire circuits recently have been developed for transmitting radio broadcast programs with greater naturalness and over greater distances than heretofore (see companion paper ``Wide-Band Open-Wire Program System'' in this issue). The simultaneous utilization of these circuits for the transmission of broadcast programs and carrier telephone messages requires the use of line filters to restrict the program and carrier currents to the proper circuits. The low pass line filter developed for the program circuits and its contribution to the maintenance of good quality in the programs transmitted are described in this paper."
"The steady state stability limit of a power system, and adjusted synchronous reactance, are considered in this paper. A graphical solution of the problems of the determination of the steady state power limits is described, based directly upon the use of the general circuit constants of the transmission line."
"An electronic rectifier built for testing radio transmitting tubes is described, and some of the factors influencing precision of control are discussed briefly."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"With a glorious record of tradition, accomplishment, and unique service to profession and to society; with no apparent causes for regrets; and with the promise of the future that lies in firmly planted ideals, the Institute may justly take for itself a happy celebration of its anniversary."
"Some highlights in the life of the AIEE, its heritage, and the environment that has shaped its humble beginning and later tremendous growth, are outlined in this article by a past-president whose record of service to the Institute is surpassed by few, if any, other members. Far from being a mere chronological recital of events, this history contains personal reminiscences of many of the Institute's noted personalities and of their struggles and triumphs. Professor Scott says \"the perusal of old-time records, the reading of past-presidential contributions of wide variety, personal reminiscing with old-timers and with others have awakened interesting recollections and have given me a new viewpoint and a perspective of various happenings; these now present a significance which one does not recognize when enmeshed in details.\" Perhaps Professor Scott's contribution will do as much for other members of the Institute."
"How the Institute's organization has grown from its early modest begining to meet the widely diversified needs of a rapidly expanding membership is reviewed briefly in this article. One cannot review the history of the Institute's organization ``without being impressed with the flexibility it has shown in adapting itself to changing conditions, and we may be confident that this will continue . . . in the future.''"
"Of the 25 men who signed the original organization call, 21 were in the telegraph business, as were also the Institute's first 2 presidents, 2 of the initial vice-presidents, and 4 of the initial managers."
"An historical outline of the standardization activities of the A.I.E.E. is recorded in this article by a past-president who was chairman of the Institute's first standardization committee and who continuously since the appointment of that committee has been actively engaged not only in the standardization work of the Institute, but also in international standardization of electrical units."
"The Institute's standardizing committee, which has been in existence for 36 of the Institute's 50 years, was the first official group representing designers, manufacturers, and operators of electrical apparatus in a joint effort to arrive at mutual understandings. These cooperative efforts have been continued until today the Institute holds a major place in the formulation and approval of electrical standards in the United States and has an important rôle to play in international electrical standardization."
"A brief account of the early headquarters and meeting places of the A.I.E.E. is related here by a past-president who was a member of the original committee to solicit Mr. Carnegie's financial support for a new Institute building, and who acted as agent in the purchase of the Latimer Clark Library which was presented to the Institute in 1901 by Past-President Wheeler."
"Personal reminiscences of some major events in the life of the Institute by a past-president whose active participation in Institute affairs began 30 years ago and who, on the basis of that experience, ventures some criticisms and suggestions."
"Although now celebrating only the fiftieth anniversary of its founding, the Institute ``has a record of accomplishment that would have done justice to a life to 100 years.''"
"Members of the Institute always have been interested primarily in those parts of electrical science that concern the motion of electricity in conductors. Although Kirchhoff and Maxwell formulated the equations of electrical propagation more than 30 years before the founding of the A.I.E.E., it remained for the period co-inciding with the life of the Institute for the full meaning of their theoretical achievements to be demonstrated. It seems particularly appropriate, therefore, that on the Institute's 50th anniversary these achievements should be reviewed by one who has had such a large part in applying them and in extending them to long distance telephonic transmission."
"Some personal reminiscences of experiences in the electrical industry are recorded in this article by ``the father of electric traction'' who has dug in ``the mines of the motors'' for 3 score years. From his courageous pioneering efforts great systems of electrical transportation have grown. It is entirely fitting that these experiences, which are so interwoven in the history of the electrical engineering profession, be recorded on the occasion of the Institute's 50th anniversary by a past-president whose entrance into the profession antedates the Institutes by a decade."
"An episode of early commercial competition within the electrical industry by a past-president of the Institute who was an ``eye witness'' to the controversy."
"A brief account of some significant events in the history of electric power transmission related by a past-president of the Institute whose name is closely linked with many of those events and who for many years has been actively engaged in the study of high voltage phenomena."
"Although energy derived from water has been utilized by man for at least 3,000 years, its greatest development has come within the lifetime of the Institute and after the first hydroelectric ''central station'' was constructed at Appleton, Wis., in 1882-a ''250-light'' installation. Since that time the utilization of water power for the generation of electricity has expanded until now the aggregate installed capacity of hydroelectric plants in the United States is more than 15,000,000 hp. Some significant events in this development are outlined briefly in this article."
"Although almost microscopic as compared with modern electric generators, the 5,000-hp generators installed at Niagara Falls in 1895 had a capacity of about 4 times that of the largest generator previously built. Some of the early operating experiences at Niagara are related here by a past-president of the Institute who was the first operating superintendent and who was in charge of the construction and operation of the original Buffalo-Niagara 11,000-volt 3-phase transmission line."
"Some outstanding individual contributions of the past 50 years to the electrical industry are reviewed here by a past-president who himself has made no small contribution; he says: . . . ``as we of the electrical fraternity hope for continued progress, we must remember that our hopes can be fully realized only by remaining true to the greatest of our traditions, `to produce and to serve.'''"
"Since the Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893 gave to the world its first large outdoor display, electric illumination has played a vital and striking part in the great expositions. At San Francisco in 1915 the illumination was classed by the International Jury of Award as a ''Decorative Art''; at Chicago in 1933 the lighting was conceded to be an outstanding feature of the exposition in spite of the fact that it was almost an afterthought. In this short article the author gives a general description of the exterior lighting effects; illustrates some of the equipment used and the results obtained. -Editor."
"Presents photographs illustrati ng some \"Century of Progress\" outdoor lighting standards."
"Pointing out that when the A.I.E.E. was founded in 1884 telegraphy was 40 years old and telephony 8 years old, the author traces briefly the significant developments and tremendous growth of electrical communication and the significance and importance of the parallel growth of the Institute. ``Both grew out of the extension of our knowledge of certain laws of nature, and both were encouraged in their growth by the social and economic results that were possible from the application of electricity.'' The record of 50 years of communication development is traced through a half century of Institute publications."
"These personal reminiscences by a widely recognized leader in the electrical engineering profession touch upon some of the significant developments in early electrical equipment, and reflect many of the colorful personalities involved. This manuscript is based upon the record of a recent interview by Prof. D. C. Jackson."
"Many colorful personal reminiscences of the exhibit and personalities involved in the 1884 International Electrical Exhibition and related ``Conference of Electricians'' are given here by Professor Jackson. With this background as an indication of the state of electrical engineering education in 1884, the author outlines its rapid development, emphasizes the strength imparted to it through its early and continued close association with the fundamental sciences, and, looking to the future, sounds something of a challenge to the modern era and modern attitude."
"The Institute, founded at the beginning of a ''new deal,'' now celebrates its 50th anniversary in the midst of another new deal. What of the engineer's part in today's new deal? He must go ahead as enthusiastically as ever with the creation of labor-saving devices and thus with the creation of leisure-not loafing, but a leisure to be filled by satisfying activities."
"Crediting the extent and magnitude of the technical advancement of the past half-century to engineering as the motivating force in the application of the scientific knowledge developed through the powerful facilities of the organized and coordinated research that has been developed during the latter part of the half-century just closing, Doctor Jewett believes that from the present point of view there is no reason to expect results any less striking during the next 50 years."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A digest of present theories regarding the structure of atoms and molecules is presented herewith. In an article of this length it is impossible to show adequately how bulk properties of substances are related to atomic properties; the article is intended primarily as a general introduction to the subject, and for those wishing to delve deeper into the matter a list of references is given at the end of the article. This is the sixth of a series of special articles prepared under sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"As the social and economic significance of engineering becomes plainer every day, the world looks to the engineer of the future as a leader capable of shouldering broader social responsibilities. The organization of the Engineers Council for Professional Development is the first step in preparing the coming generation of engineers for the tasks ahead. This paper describes the formation, aims, and activities of E.C.P.D. and espouses its importance."
"One of the important conditions that must be met by any speech transmission system is that it should transmit properly a sufficient range of speech intensities. In long wave radio telephony, even after the speech waves are raised to the maximum intensity before transmission, there remain energy variations such that weak syllables and important parts of strong syllables may be submerged under heavy static. The \"compandor\" is an automatic device which compresses the range of useful signal energy variations at the transmitting end and expands the range to normal at the receiving end, thus improving the speech-to-noise ratio. This paper deals with some of the fundamental characteristics of speech waves and explains how the task of changing them for transmission over the circuit and restoring them at the receiving end is accomplished."
"A recent development in the design of the cap and pin of suspension insulators, to enable compression principles of stress distribution to be incorporated, has made possible an increase from 6,000 lb to 11,000 lb in load as determined by time-load tests covering a period of 2 years. Also, fatigue failure caused by vibration has been found to occur in the metal part before the porcelain is affected."
"Supplementing a previous paper, data given here verifies the coördination between transformer major insulation and standard edge gaps for surges of short duration. Insulation deterioration caused by high surge voltages is shown to occur at relatively constant voltages regardless of wave length or polarity. Direct strokes are Found to be the cause of principal damage, use of overhead ground wires for apparatus protection is recommended."
"This paper describes circuits and operating details of an electronic device designed to provide, through field excitation control, a regulation of a-c generator voltage within a range of ±1/10 per cent."
"In an effort to clarify the confusion that has existed during past years regarding the flashover strength of insulators the A.I.E.E. lightning and insulator subcommittee* has been engaged, jointly with high voltage laboratories of several insulator manufacturers, in an investigation to determine and eliminate differences in insulator flashover data from different sources, and to obtain reliable flashover data for standard insulators and gaps. In tnis latest report, the subcommittee presents average 60-cycle and impulse flashover voltages for suspension insulator strings consisting of 10-in. units with 5 ¾-in. spacing, and for coördinating gaps with various spacings."
"A remote metering system operating over telephone lines to bring load indications directly to the office of the system operator from important stations in the metropolitan area is described in this paper. A high degree of accuracy has been achieved, and important operating economies are expected."
"This paper describes a study of the application of an iron armored aerial communication cable as an inductive coördination measure permitting a high voltage transmission line to occupy jointly for a distance of about 20 miles the same railroad right-of-way with telegraph and telephone circuits. Calculations are given indicating the induction to be expected on open wire communication circuits, and the degree of reduction afforded by several different designs of cables, both armored and nonarmored. The effect of cable on the normal operation of the telegraph and telephone circuits carried through it also is considered."
"Improvements and strengths of suspension insulators which have been attained since the publication in 1931 of a paper by the present author are outlined in this paper. Details of the improvements which have been made since that time are discussed herein, and considerable data on the strength of suspension insulators of different types are given."
"Insulators on high voltage lines may cause radio interference by the arcing of the insulator charging current. A copper oxide glaze for new insulators has been developed to prevent this arcing; treatment of old insulators with special compounds to exclude air is reported as helpful. Suspension insulators are found to require no treatment."
"Some of the problems involved in supplying electric power to the business sections of large metropolitan areas are dealt with in this article which describes the development and operation of new methods of voltage regulation and load control by means of which improved conditions are being obtained on the distribution system in New York City."
"Engineering education today is being examined from within as well as from without, with the object of adapting it to meet more adequately the changing demands of a profession broad and diverse although relatively young. With no precedent or past experience to serve as a guide, engineering education necessarily has developed by its own efforts through trial and experiment. This describes the educational methods adopted at Harvard Engineering School in an effort to the problem of training engineering graduates for the varied responsibilities that they may be called upon to assume."
"A discussion of the application of and advantages derived from the use of split winding transformers for separating bus sections and For avoiding undue concentration of power from high voltage lines. An explanation is given of the characteristics of these units with respect to the reactances and the effect of load unbalance on the windings."
"A new porcelain post insulator for transmission lines, which is free from radio effect at its operating voltage, is described in this paper. Capacitance measurements are utilized to determine and rate the radio characteristics. Other points of design are described, such as improved leakage path to resist arcing in contaminated atmosphere, greater height to avoid grounding by birds, and increased resistance to destruction by internal cracking, puncture, and breakage."
"The rectifier and inverter characteristics of the grid controlled mercury arc rectifier o the 6-phase and 12-phase types are considered in this paper. The analysis of rectifier circuits has been extended to cover the effect of grid control on the output voltage, power factor, eficiency, wave forms, and other characteristics; and the characteristics of the grid controlled rectifier operating as an inverter have been determined. Several schemes for applying these rectifiers to railway electrification requiring regeneration are considered."
"Some of the methods used in selecting and checking suspension insulators during the past 15 years on a large electric power transmission system comprising some 3,000 miles of steel tower lines, most of which operate at 132,000 volts, are outlined in this paper. The results obtained through various tests, the use of these results as a guide for insulator selection, and actual performance and expected lire of insulators are discussed. A large amount of laboratory and field test data is included, on the basis of which a life expectancy of 50 years for suspension insulators is believed possible."
"A series of sparkover voltage calibration tests on sphere gaps using spheres of various sizes up to 200 cm in diameter are reported in this paper. Tests were made with gap spacings ordinarily used in pratice, and with 60-cycle and both positive and negative impulse voltages. Since these tests as well as those of other investigators show that some of the A.I.E.E. standard sphere gap calibration curves are in error, it is recommended that those standards be revised. Recommendations are made for the adoption of separate calibration curves for positive and negative impulses and for correcting the 60-cycle calibration curves of large spheres."
"New developments in the direct selection system of supervisory control are described in this paper which also touches upon the systems and use of codes and gives examples of the use and operation of equipment."
"Selsyn instruments are miniature salient pole synchronous machines excited by alternating current. They are used to transmit electrically, to one or several of the instruments acting as the receivers, the rotation given to another of the instruments acting as a transmitter. This paper presents a study of the behavior and accuracy of these instruments at standstill and under synchronous rotation giving results equally applicable to large Selsyn power motors and generators. The data presented are useful in connection with the problems of remote control, synchronous coupling of power drives, the transmission of indicating signals, or remote metering."
"A relay for automatically synchronizing rotating machines has been developed which uses vacuum tubes to reduce mechanical adjustments, and which gives the closing indication at a constant time in advance of synchronism. This latter quality is shown to be required for rapid synchronizing with acceptable accuracy, in the absence of extremely accurate speed control. The theoretical requirements of such a synchronizer are derived mathematically in this paper, and a description of a relay which fulfills these requirements is given."
"In this description of the manufacturing processes for suspension insulators, from design and research to finished product, is given a comprehensive list of the laboratory equipment required for adequate testing. Methods of testing for defects and the manner of assembly are sketched, and the need for further standardization is mentioned."
"The feature of the current-type telemeter described in this paper is the pilot coil which acts as a detector of load changes."
"Some of the changes to be introduced into the mathematical treatment of rectifier circuits when the fring of the anodes of a rectifier is advanced or retarded by control of the arc are described. The points considered and illustrated by theoretical curves include commutation between anodes, regulation, and wave shape of the output voltage for the more usual transformer connections, and resulting variations in functions of the transformer reactance and of the nature of the d-c load."
"A general outline of the status of modern hydroelectric developments is presented in this report by an A.I.E.E. subcommittee.* Major topics discussed are: developed water power of the world, present trends in utilization of water power, and hydraulic and hydrodynamic research. It is hoped that this report not only will present a retrospective picture of results achieved, but also will serve as a source from which general information can be obtained and conclusions drawn concerning modern trends of hydroelectric developments."
"Inductive heating and space limitations complicated the problem of redesigning a 4,000-amp bus to carry 7,000 amp, without structural changes in existing cells and runways. A general discussion of the unusual problems involved is given in this paper, together with the methods of solution and supporting test results."
"This paper treats the loci of cross currents in 5-arm networks with constant coefficients at constant applied voltage. It is shown that at constant frequency of applied voltage, the locus of the cross current is a circle when any one of the network arms is varied at constant phase angle or along one of its components. When the network arms are fixed and the frequency is varied the locus of the cross current is the sum of several circles, the number depending upon how many of the impedance arms vary with frequency. The general 5-arm network is treated analytically and the application of the method in determining the loci is illustrated by a typical network for which the cross current is evaluated for constant and for varying frequency."
"Insulation resistance of the windings of an electric machine may be used as a barometer for indicating the condition of the windings. On the basis of tests on many machines of different types it is recommended that all insulation resistance readings be taken after the application of 500 volts (d-c) for one minute. The slope of the resistance-time curve at that point gives a combined indication of the moisture content and the quality of the insulation. In this paper are given Formulas for the insulation resistance of different types of windings derived from the winding insulation dimensions and expressed in terms of the rated voltage, capacity, and speed of the machine. By the use of nomographs, insulation resistances can be determined in about 15 second's time; 5 of these prepared for diferent types of machines are included in the paper."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The keynote behind the success of the Institute is the spirit of mutual helpfulness to other members and of disinterested service to humanity. That such a spirit motivates the large number of individuals who coöperate actively in the affairs of the Institute is brought out in the following discussion by President-Elect J. Allen Johnson. To the many members of the Institute who are not intimately familiar with its ``workings'' this article should be interesting and helpful."
"Resonant transmission lines may be used as circuit elements in the ultra-short wave range as a means of obtaining high impedance with low loss. The lines may be of either concentric tubes or 2 wires, and are sufficiently small that they may be placed within the apparatus. These circuits can be made highly selective, and when used to control oscillator frequency will give stability comparable to that of a crystal. The mathematical relations governing their operation and several applications are discussed in this paper."
"Edison's observation of the discharge of negative electricity from the carbon filament of an incandescent lamp to an auxiliary electrode in the bulb, commonly known as the ''Edison effect,'' remained unexplained until the beginning of the 20th century. Since that time, an entire new industry-radio-has grown up as a result of continued research in the emission of electrons from hot cathodes. This article, seventh of a series prepared under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, reviews some of the more important observations and conclusions obtained from investigations in this field."
"Although much is yet unknown about the many Factors concerned in insulator arcover, humidity tests presented here lead to a theory of arcover. The geometrical design of the insulator is shown to be a minor factor at power frequencies, but of importance for withstanding impulse voltages."
"A glow discharge at atmospheric pressure is responsive to air velocity, and may be used as an anemometer. The properties of such a glow are discussed in this paper, and data relating to glow current, voltage, glow length, and air velocity are presented. It is also shown that the glow discharge responds to rapid fluctuations in air velocity and is therefore a practical device for investigating turbulence. A comparison of such an anemometer with the previously used hot wire method is given."
"The behavior of distance relays during system oscillations is analyzed in this paper, and curves are presented for determining whether the oscillations are likely to cause relay operation. Different types of distance relays are considered and general methods of analyzing system conditions are discussed."
"An investigation of factors influencing the reignition potential of an alternating current arc at low pressure is reported in this paper. The investigation was undertaken to determine if such data could throw more light on the transition from a glow discharge to an arc. The results are consistent with a theory proposed previously by one of the authors."
"A general outline of the status of modern hydroelectric developments is presented in this report by an A.I.E.E. subcommittee,* continued from the June issue."
"The board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its fiftieth annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1934. A general balance sheet showing the condition of the Institute's finances on April 30, 1934, together with cluded herein. This report contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING."
"In the expulsion type of oil circuit breaker the arc occurring on circuit interruption is ``expelled'' from the contact chamber by a high velocity gas blast. Breakers of this type have demonstrated their capability of consistently interrupting short circuits on a typical large electric power system within 1 or 2 cycles of arc. In this paper the theory of this type of breaker is presented and its performance is analyzed."
"Tests have been conducted on an experimental transmission line equipped with a counterpoise for reducing the tower Footing surge impedance so as to give added protection against lightning. The results of these tests are presented herewith, and should prove valuable to engineers engaged in the design and operation of transmission lines. The desirability of further tests made under a variety of conditions is indicated."
"Field tests on transmission conductor vibration as affected by dampers and suspension clamps have been made in an attempt to find a solution to the important problem of stopping such vibration in an economical manner. This paper presents some data in regard to number and spacing of the ``Stockbridge'' type damper. The question of whether vibration is transmitted through or stopped by various types of suspension clamps also is discussed, and actual records of frequencies on both sides of suspension clamps shown."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An illuminating analysis of the reasons for and obligations of a profession, and in particular of the A.I.E.E."
"Although the present amazing variety of applications of the photoelectric cell has been developed entirely during the past decade, the photoelectric effect was discovered during the nineteenth century. This article gives a brief account of the fundamental laws of photoelectric phenomena and their theoretical significance; it is the eighth of a series of special articles prepared under sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, for full details of which see p. 238 of the February issue."
"A number of recent advances in television methods, such as electronic scanning, receiver synchronizing via the signal channel, and light sensitive devices of great sensitivity have made possible the construction of television equipment which is thoroughly useful. Scenes with motion thus may be transmitted instantaneously, and the resulting image is stated to be almost equal in detail to good home motion pictures. The various units of a complete modern television system are discussed in this paper, with particular emphasis on the scanning, amplifying, and light translation devices. Transmission is stated to be feasible by either wire or radio."
"A modification of the tube or reflected wave method for measuring the sound absorption coefficients of acoustic and building materials over a wide frequency range is described in this paper. Modern communication equipment is used, and a high degree of reliability is obtained. The method is especially well adapted to rapid routine tests of acoustic materials in commercial production, and in other instances where measurements by the more elaborate and expensive reverberation-chamber method are not justified."
"Different theories have been advanced as to the behavior of the counterpoise in the protection of power transmission lines against lightning. In an attempt to learn more about the counterpoise and to check the theories of its behavior, a series of basic field tests was conducted. The results of these tests, made on both the parallel insulated counterpoise and the buried counterpoise, are reported in this paper. The data obtained are analyzed, and conclusions are drawn."
"The high efficiency of the carbon arc, the flexible and uniform quality of radiation it provides, and its extremely high intrinsic brilliancy give it a prominent place in the broad field of illumination. For applications in which a powerful light must be obtained from a source of small dimensions, it is unsurpassed. Characteristics of the various types of carbon arcs and their applications are outlined in this paper."
"Lightning currents ranging from about 4,000 to 63,000 amp in the towers of electric power transmission lines have been measured by the surge crest ammeter; of 64 readings obtained, all but 2 showed currents of negative polarity. This paper is the fifth in a series by the same authors reporting the results of a continued investigation of lightning effects on several typical transmission lines in different parts of the United States."
"A method of representing approximately an empirical magnetizing curve is outlined in this article. An example illustrating application of the method is included."
"Investigation of the effects of lightning discharges on the 220-kv transmission lines of the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company has been continued over a period of several years; results obtained during the perio 1931-33 are reported and analyzed in this paper. By the use of the ``distribution ratio method'' of locating faults nearly all 220-kv faults causing line trip-outs were found quickly and positively correlated with time, dynamic current, lightning current, insulator flashovers, line construction, and tower footing resistance."
"Lightning performance of the I 32-kv transmission lines of the American Gas and Electric Company during 1932-33 is reported in this paper. Analysis of lightning performance of these lines, records of which have been kept for the past 9 years, has resulted in definite progress being made in understanding the lightning problem and also in definite conclusions regarding many aspects thereof."
"Some theoretical considerations involved in incandescent phenomena, with particular reference to incandescent illumination, are discussed briefly in this paper. In spite of the recent remarkable achievements in luminescent illumination, the incandescent lamp still is believed to await a genuine challenge."
"Radiation and conduction phenomena in low pressure gaseous discharge lamps are discussed in this paper. Results of measurements on the variables in a discharge are given, and an attempt is made to correlate them with the concentration of atoms at different energy levels, and with the luminous efficiency. An insight into the fundamental processes which occur in a gas discharge and govern the production of light in low pressure discharges are given. In Part I, which follows, radiation processes are discussed, and in Part II, scheduled for publication in the next issue, electrical conduction processes are covered."
"Because of the rapid extension of police radio systems, and because both electric power lines and police cars occupy the highways, the problem of power line radio influence has acquired an added importance. Insulators coated with dirt, moisture, and hygroscopic salts have been found to cause radio disturbances at voltages much less than those For clean insulators."
"A series of tests on suspension insulators For power transmission lines is described this paper, and results are given which should be of interest to design engineers. The tests made included long-time Fatigue tests, the distribution of voltage over the insulator string, and the flashover voltage when some of the units are electrically defective."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Recent advances in ferromagnetic theory, which are outlined briefly in this article, are concerned principally with the effect of elastic deformation on magnetic properties and the related magnetostriction. This is the ninth of a series of special articles reviewing contemporary advances in several of the more important and rapidly advancing fields of science that are of especial interest to electrical engineers, and prepared under sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"On the basis of several years of first hand association the author here describes some of the current electrical practices in the steel industry of the Soviet Union, and indicates the general trend of development."
"A description of the impulse, power frequency, and high frequency testing facilities now available in a new high voltage laboratory is given in this paper. In particular, a new form of 3,000-kv impulse generator is described wherein size, inductance, and stray capacitance have been reduced to a minimum by a helical arrangement of capacitor units."
"Methods of estimating the harmonics in the output voltage wave of controlled voltage mercury arc rectifiers are given in this paper. Two limiting conditions are considered: one where the d-c circuit is sufficiently inductive to give substantially a smooth direct current, and the other where the d-c circuit is noninductive. Formulas for the harmonics when the rectifier is delivering load are presented, and curves are given that make it possible to calculate readily the lower orders of these harmonics which appear in the output voltage of 6- and 12-phase rectifiers."
"The construction of a new vacuum tube having a rating of 100 kw is described herewith.* This tube has been made possible by the development of water cooling and a satisfactory copper-glass seal."
"The machine characteristics needed for steady welding have been analyzed with the aid of a series of tests of the welding process. In addition to describing the method of test, oscillograms and photographs of specially secured metal test strips are presented, and a discussion of the possible theory to explain the results is given in this paper."
"Representation of ``receiving-end'' systems by simplified equivalent circuits, for use in steady state stability studies of electric power transmission systems, is discussed in this paper. Various methods of approximate representation are analyzed, compared, and evaluated. Comparative analyses of a specific problem indicates that the simplified method that replaces the receiving-end system by an equivalent generator and an equivalent load is sufficiently accurate for engineering purposes."
"Radiation and conduction phenomena in low pressure gaseous discharge lamps are discussed in this paper. Part I was published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for August 1934; the second and concluding part, on electrical conduction processes, is presented herewith."
"In this paper is given a mathematical analysis of the armature terminal voltage of a d-c welding generator at interruption of the short circuit current, with and without neutralizing transformer. Also, consideration is given to the voltage transients across the field circuit winding of the neutralizing transformer caused by the make and break of the armature circuit. Comparisons are shown between oscillograms and calculations for these transient voltages."
"Observations of line-to-ground voltages have been made under routine operating conditions on an isolated neutral system, a Petersen coil system, 3 neutral resistance grounded systems, and 2 directly grounded systems. Results of these observations are given in this paper. Measurements were made with oscillographs supplemented, on all but 2 systems, by surge recorders."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The extent of the contribution that can be made by any organization such as the Institute is determined by the soundness of its business policies. The furtherance of its aims, to promote technological advancement and the best interests of its membership, is predicated upon its ability so to manage its affairs that it may foster uninterruptedly those activities that are consistent with the purposes for which it exists. It is important that its members be qualified technically, if advances in the electrical art are to be made, but it is just as important that the members have knowledge of the financial aspects of the Institute's affairs if they would be equally qualified to promote the well-being of the institution which concerns itself not only with technical matters, but also with the improvement of the professional status of those engaged in electrical engineering."
"Scientific men cannot stand aside and ignore the vast political and social experiments being conducted during the present period of accelerated social change. It is not necessary or even desirable, however, that professional scientific men abandon their laboratories and attempt to deal with executive problems; but it is necessary that they expound insistently the nature of scientific thought and study its application to social and political problems. Engineers and scientists are urged to deal with problems of social reconstruction as they deal with other problems, pinning their faith on those methods of reasoning that have proved so successful in analyzing all types of natural phenomena."
"This article is a review of some of the established facts and accepted theories pertaining to the behavior of ions in dense gases, supplementing the article that appeared in last month's issue reviewing current knowledge concerning ionization and excitation, and preparing the way for next month's article which will discuss various types of electric discharges in the light of the basic processes set forth in this and the preceding article. This is the fourth of a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, and the second of three devoted to the major divisions of the general subject of electric discharges in gases. Full details concerning this series of articles are given on p. 238 of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for February 1934."
"Social advantages and disadvantages of the engineering-scientific approach to civilization are discussed in this article, which includes full text of an address delivered at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science held in Boston, Mass., December 8, 1933. The engineer is urged to apply the precision of his thinking and his honesty in facing facts to the more complex situations that concern living organisms and our social life."
"In the experiments reported here the authors have studied the relations involved in the maximal effect of electric shock, which is death. These experiments were conducted on rats; the relations of duration, current intensity, and frequency were studied. The results afford an explanation of the common observation that death from high voltage usually is cardiac in origin, and from low voltage respiratory in origin."
"The following authorized statement of the actions taken at the Paris meeting of the committee on electric and magnetic magnitudes and units of the International Electrotechnical Commission, prepared by Dr. A. E. Kennelly, chairman of the E.M.M.U. committee, is based upon the minutes of the meeting, as circulated among the various I.E.C. national committees. This statement, distributed by the I.E.C. General Secretariat in London, is, however, necessarily subsidiary to the official minutes (I.E.C. document R.M. 105) which should be consulted by those particularly interested."
"Steam ejector refrigeration for railroad passenger car air conditioning has been proved to be practicable. Equipment of this type which has been developed and thoroughly tested is described in this article."
"Shunt resistors applied to current limiting reactors used on large electric power systems function to reduce voltages caused by reflections and oscillations, to provide an avenue of escape for bus disturbances, and to reduce the voltages across the reactors. To be suitable for this purpose, a resistor must have an inverse characteristic such that its resistance during short circuits is many times that during transient conditions. The material known to the trade as “thyrite” fulfills these requirements admirably. A method of calculating the effects of such a resistor, with results given in convenient curve form, is presented in this paper."
"In the past, the solution of the transients in magnetic systems with solid cores has been carried out by assuming that the radial distribution of flux in other portions of the magnetic circuit is the same as in the solid portion. This paper presents a more precise mathematical analysis, the purpose of which is to determine the limits for which the foregoing assumption applies, and also to determine the nature of the phenomena for other cases in which that assumption is not permissible."
"This paper, Part II of a group on theory of primary electric power distribution networks, deals with short-circuit and relay problems. Data showing the distribution of fault currents for both 3-phase and ground faults is presented, and a rational method of relaying based upon that data is discussed and analyzed."
"The calculation of the most economical division of load between generating units and power plants is of considerable importance on large inter-connected systems. The most complete analysis of the subject of load division published to date is contained in the present paper, which shows that the method of incremental rates gives the division of load which is the most economical. Both the basic theory and the practical application of the method are contained in this paper. An outline is given in the accompanying table of contents."
"ON this and the following pages appear those discussions of A.I.E.E. winter convention papers that were received in complete and acceptable form at Institute headquarters up to Feb. 5, and subsequently reviewed by the various technical committees and recommended for publication. Discussions received subsequent to Feb. 5 and prior to March 1 are scheduled for publication in the April issue, subject to the recommendations of technical reviewers. It appears that these 2 groups will account for the bulk of the total discussion of the winter convention papers as published in the Aug., Nov., and Dec. 1933, and the Jan. 1934 issues of Electrical Engineering. However, discussions received after March 1 will be given the same attention as those received earlier, and will be judged on the same basis for possible publication."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on electric furnaces of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on electric furnaces of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on electric furnaces of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on electric furnaces of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on electric furnaces of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on electric furnaces of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on electric furnaces of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a symposium presented for oral discussion at the session on electric power switching of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a symposium presented for oral discussion at the session on electric power switching of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a symposium presented for oral discussion at the session on electric power switching of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a symposium presented for oral discussion at the session on electric power switching of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a symposium presented for oral discussion at the session on electric power switching of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a symposium presented for oral discussion at the session on electric power switching of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on communication at the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 24, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on communication at the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 24, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on communication at the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 24, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on communication at the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 24, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on communication at the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 24, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on communication at the winter convention, New York, N.Y., Jan. 24, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on power distribution of the winter convention, New York, N.Y. Jan. 25, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on power distribution of the winter convention, New York, N.Y. Jan. 25, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on power distribution of the winter convention, New York, N.Y. Jan. 25, 1934."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on power distribution of the winter convention, New York, N.Y. Jan. 25, 1934."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following list of candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Recent advances in ferromagnetic theory, which are outlined briefly in this article, are concerned principally with the effect of elastic deformation on magnetic properties and the related magnetostriction. This is the ninth of a series of special articles reviewing contemporary advances in several of the more important and rapidly advancing fields of science that are of especial interest to electrical engineers, and prepared under sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"ONE of the most important and most difficult problems involved in electric welding is the control of the nitrogen content in the deposited weld metal. For the most part, research work to date has been concentrated upon the effect of nitrogen in the deposited metal and not upon the actual control of the nitrogen content of the deposited metal."
"On the basis of several years of first hand association the author here describes some of the current electrical practices in the steel industry of the Soviet Union, and indicates the general trend of development."
"A description of the impulse, power frequency, and high frequency testing facilities now available in a new high voltage laboratory is given in this paper. In particular, a new form of 3,000-kv impulse generator is described wherein size, inductance, and stray capacitance have been reduced to a minimum by a helical arrangement of capacitor units."
"Methods of estimating the harmonics in the output voltage wave of controlled voltage mercury arc rectifiers are given in this paper. Two limiting conditions are considered: one where the d-c circuit is sufficiently inductive to give substantially a smooth direct current, and the other where the d-c circuit is noninductive. Formulas for the harmonics when the rectifier is delivering load are presented, and curves are given that make it possible to calculate readily the lower orders of these harmonics which appear in the output voltage of 6- and 12-phase rectifiers."
"The construction of a new vacuum tube having a rating of 100 kw is described herewith.∗ This tube has been made possible by the development of water cooling and a satisfactory copper-glass seal."
"The machine characteristics needed for steady welding have been analyzed with the aid of a series of tests of the welding process. In addition to describing the method of test, oscillograms and photographs of specially secured metal test strips are presented, and a discussion of the possible theory to explain the results is given in this paper."
"Representation of “receiving-end” systems by simplified equivalent circuits, for use in steady state stability studies of electric power transmission systems, is discussed in this paper. Various methods of approximate representation are analyzed, compared, and evaluated. Comparative analyses of a specific problem indicates that the simplified method that replaces the receiving-end system by an equivalent generator and an equivalent load is sufficiently accurate for engineering purposes."
"Radiation and conduction phenomena in low pressure gaseous discharge lamps are discussed in this paper. Part I was published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for August 1934; the second and concluding part, on electrical conduction processes, is presented herewith."
"In this paper is given a mathematical analysis of the armature terminal voltage of a d-c welding generator at interruption of the short circuit current, with and without neutralizing transformer. Also, consideration is given to the voltage transients across the field circuit winding of the neutralizing transformer caused by the make and break of the armature circuit. Comparisons are shown between oscillograms and calculations for these transient voltages."
"Observations of line-to-ground voltages have been made under routine operating conditions on an isolated neutral system, a Petersen coil system, 3 neutral resistance grounded systems, and 2 directly grounded systems. Results of these observations are given in this paper. Measurements were made with oscillographs supplemented, on all but 2 systems, by surge recorders."
"Authors' closing discussion of a paper published in the December 1933 issue, p. 854–60, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 470–1, and in the April 1934 issue, p. 600–1."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., on August 7, 1934."
"J. B. Fisken (A'03, F'13, and member for life) safety engineer, The Washington Water Power Company, Spokane, was honored by the Institute's Spokane Branch by the presentation of a resolution commemorating his 21 years of activity in the founding and building of the Branch. The presentation was made at a meeting celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Institute and the 21st of the Branch. Mr. Fisken has been intimately connected with power development in Washington since 1887. He was an Institute manager, 1916–19, and a vice president, 1919–20, and has served on the following committees: public policy (now Institute policy), 1916–17; sections, 1917–18, 1920–22; economics of electric service, 1919–20; and membership, 1928–29."
"Herbert Aubrey Barre (A'11) chief engineer, Southern California Edison Company, Ltd., died on June 28, 1934, as the result of a cerebral hemorrhage. He was born at Picton, Nova Scotia, Canada, on January 26, 1875. After his graduation from the University of California in 1897 he was employed by several power and transit companies in California until in 1902 he became assistant to a Los Angeles, Calif., consulting engineer. Four years later he was again engaged with power companies, and in 1908 came to New York, N. Y., as engineer with the Electric Operating Construction Company. He returned to California 3 years later as electrical-mechanical engineer for the Pacific Light and Power Corporation, a company later acquired by the Southern California Edison Company. Mr. Barre became executiveengineer of the latter company in 1917 and chief engineer in 1929. He waslargely responsible for the construction and operation of the first 150,000-volt long-distance transmission line in the world, that between the Big Creek-San Joaquin development and Los Angeles. This line wasconverted under his pupervision for 220,000-volt operation in 1923. He served the Institute on the transmission and distribution committee, 1915–17, and the power generation committee, 1920–27. Mr. Barre was also a member of The American Institute of Mechanical Engineers."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary before Sept. 30, 1934, or Nov. 30, 1934, if the applicant resides outside of the United States or Canada."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Westinghouse Orders Show Large Increase. For the 2nd quarter of 1934, Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co. orders totaled $33,655,022, as compared with $20,237,588 for the previous quarter and $17,557,964 for the second quarter of 1933. Sales billed for the second quarter of 1934 totaled $27,287,545, compared to $17,994,045 for the previous quarter, and $15,926,335 for the corresponding quarter of 1933. Unfilled orders at June 30 were $31,892,155 as compared with $24,705,173 on June 30, 1933. According to President F. A. Merrick, orders received for the first half of 1934 show increase of 77% over a similar period m 1933."
"Sodium-Vapor Lighting. Bulletin 3010, 4 pp. Describes the sodium lamp for street and highway lighting. General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A digest of present theories regarding the structure of atoms and molecules is presented herewith. In an article of this length it is impossible to show adequately how bulk properties of substances are related to atomic properties; the article is intended primarily as a general introduction to the subject, and for those wishing to delve deeper into the matter a list of references is given at the end of the article. This is the sixth of a series of special articles prepared under sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"As the social and economic significance of engineering becomes plainer every day, the world looks to the engineer of the future as a leader capable of shouldering broader social responsibilities. The organization of the Engineers Council for Professional Development is the first step in preparing the coming generation of engineers for the tasks ahead. This paper describes the formation, aims, and activities of E.C.P.D. and espouses its importance."
"One of the important conditions that must be met by any speech transmission system is that it should transmit properly a sufficient range of speech intensities. In long wave radio telephony, even after the speech waves are raised to the maximum intensity before transmission, there remain energy variations such that weak syllables and important parts of strong syllables may be submerged under heavy static. The “compandor” is an automatic device which compresses the range of useful signal energy variations at the transmitting end and expands the range to normal at the receiving end, thus improving the speech-to-noise ratio. This paper deals with some of the fundamental characteristics of speech waves and explains how the task of changing them for transmission over the circuit and restoring them at the receiving end is accomplished."
"A recent development in the design of the cap and pin of suspension insulators, to enable compression principles of stress distribution to be incorporated, has made possible an increase from 6,000 lb to 11,000 lb in load as determined by time-load tests covering a period of 2 years. Also, fatigue failure caused by vibration has been found to occur in the metal part before the porcelain is affected."
"Supplementing a previous paper, data given here verifies the coördination between transformer major insulation and standard edge gaps for surges of short duration. Insulation deterioration caused by high surge voltages is shown to occur at relatively constant voltages regardless of wave length or polarity. Direct strokes are found to be the cause of principal damage; use of overhead ground wires for apparatus protection is recommended."
"This paper describes circuits and operating details of an electronic device designed to provide, through field excitation control, a regulation of a-c generator voltage within a range of ±1/10 per cent."
"In an effort to clarify the confusion that has existed during past years regarding the flashover strength of insulators, the A.I.E.E. lightning and insulator subcommittee∗ has been engaged, jointly with high voltage laboratories of several insulator manufacturers, in an investigation to determine and eliminate differences in insulator flashover data from different sources, and to obtain reliable flashover data for standard insulators and gaps. In this latest report, the subcommittee presents average 60-cycle and impulse flashover voltages for suspension insulator strings consisting of 10-in. units with 5 3/4;-in. spacing, and for coördinating gaps with various spacings."
"A remote metering system operating over telephone lines to bring load indications directly to the office of the system operator from important stations in the metropolitan area is described in this paper. A high degree of accuracy has been achieved, and important operating economies are expected."
"This paper describes a study of the application of an iron armored aerial communication cable as an inductive coördination measure permitting a high voltage transmission line to occupy jointly for a distance of about 20 miles the same railroad right-of-way with telegraph and telephone circuits. Calculations are given indicating the induction to be expected on open wire communication circuits, and the degree of reduction afforded by several different designs of cables, both armored and non-armored. The effect of cable on the normal operation of the telegraph and telephone circuits carried through it also is considered."
"Improvements and strengths of suspension insulators which have been attained since the publication in 1931 of a paper by the present author are outlined in this paper. Details of the improvements which have been made since that time are discussed herein, and considerable data on the strength of suspension insulators of different types are given."
"Insulators on high voltage lines may cause radio interference by the arcing of the insulator charging current. A copper oxide glaze for new insulators has been developed to prevent this arcing; treatment of old insulators with special compounds to exclude air is reported as helpful. Suspension insulators are found to require no treatment."
"Some of the problems involved in supplying electric power to the business sections of large metropolitan areas are dealt with in this article which describes the development and operation of new methods of voltage regulation and load control by means of which improved conditions are being obtained on the distribution system in New York City."
"Engineering education today is being examined from within as well as from without, with the object of adapting it to meet more adequately the changing demands of a profession broad and diverse although relatively young. With no precedent or past experience to serve as a guide, engineering education necessarily has developed by its own efforts through trial and experiment. This paper describes the educational methods adopted at Harvard Engineering School in an effort to solve the problem of training engineering graduates for the varied responsibilities that they may be called upon to assume."
"A discussion of the application of and advantages derived from the use of split winding transformers for separating bus sections and for avoiding undue concentration of power from high voltage lines. An explanation is given of the characteristics of these units with respect to the reactances and the effect of load unbalance on the windings."
"A new porcelain post insulator for transmission lines, which is free from radio effect at its operating voltage, is described in this paper. Capacitance measurements are utilized to determine and rate the radio characteristics. Other points of design are described, such as improved leakage path to resist arcing in contaminated atmosphere, greater height to avoid grounding by birds, and increased resistance to destruction by internal cracking, puncture, and breakage."
"The rectifier and inverter characteristics of the grid controlled mercury arc rectifier of the 6-phase and 12-phase types are considered in this paper. The analysis of rectifier circuits has been extended to cover the effect of grid control on the output voltage, power factor, efficiency, wave forms, and other characteristics; and the characteristics of the grid controlled rectifier operating as an inverter have been determined. Several schemes for applying these rectifiers to railway electrification requiring regeneration are considered."
"Some of the methods used in selecting and checking suspension insulators during the past 15 years on a large electric power transmission system comprising some 3,000 miles of steel tower lines, most of which operate at 132,000 volts, are outlined in this paper. The results obtained through various tests, the use of these results as a guide for insulator selection, and actual performance and expected life of insulators are discussed. A large amount of laboratory and field test data is included, on the basis of which a life expectancy of 50 years for suspension insulators is believed possible."
"A series of sparkover voltage calibration tests on sphere gaps using spheres of various sizes up to 200 cm in diameter are reported in this paper. Tests were made with gap spacings ordinarily used in practice, and with 60-cycle and both positive and negative impulse voltages. Since these tests as well as those of other investigators show that some of the A.I.E.E. standard sphere gap calibration curves are in error, it is recommended that those standards be revised. Recommendations are made for the adoption of separate calibration curves for positive and negative impulses and for correcting the 60-cycle calibration curves of large spheres."
"New developments in the direct selection system of supervisory control are described in this paper which also touches upon the systems and use of codes and gives examples of the use and operation of equipment."
"Selsyn instruments are miniature salient pole synchronous machines excited by alternating current. They are used to transmit electrically, to one or several of the instruments acting as the receivers, the rotation given to another of the instruments acting as a transmitter. This paper presents a study of the behavior and accuracy of these instruments at standstill and under synchronous rotation giving results equally applicable to large Selsyn power motors and generators. The data presented are useful in connection with the problems of remote control, synchronous coupling of power drives, the transmission of indicating signals, or remote metering."
"A relay for automatically synchronizing rotating machines has been developed which uses vacuum tubes to reduce mechanical adjustments, and which gives the closing indication at a constant time in advance of synchronism. This latter quality is shown to be required for rapid synchronizing with acceptable accuracy, in the absence of extremely accurate speed control. The theoretical requirements of such a synchronizer are derived mathematically in this paper, and a description of a relay which fulfills these requirements is given."
"In this description of the manufacturing processes for suspension insulators, from design and research to finished product, is given a comprehensive list of the laboratory equipment required for adequate testing. Methods of testing for defects and the manner of assembly are sketched, and the need for further standardization is mentioned."
"The feature of the current-type telemeter described in this paper is the pilot coil which acts as a detector of load changes."
"Some of the changes to be introduced into the mathematical treatment of rectifier circuits when the firing of the anodes of a rectifier is advanced or retarded by control of the arc are described. The points considered and illustrated by theoretical curves include commutation between anodes, regulation, and wave shape of the output voltage for the more usual transformer connections, and resulting variations in functions of the transformer reactance and of the nature of the d-c load."
"A general outline of the status of modern hydroelectric developments is presented in this report by an A.I.E.E. subcommittee.∗ Major topics discussed are: developed water power of the world, present trends in utilization of water power, and hydraulic and hydrodynamic research. It is hoped that this report not only will present a retrospective picture of results achieved, but also will serve as a source from which general information can be obtained and conclusions drawn concerning modern trends of hydroelectric developments."
"Inductive heating and space limitations complicated the problem of redesigning a 4,000-amp bus to carry 7,000 amp, without structural changes in existing cells and runways. A general discussion of the unusual problems involved is given in this paper, together with the methods of solution and supporting test results."
"This paper treats the loci of cross currents in 5-arm networks with constant coefficients at constant applied voltage. It is shown that at constant frequency of applied voltage, the locus of the cross current is a circle when any one of the network arms is varied at constant phase angle or along one of its components. When the network arms are fixed and the frequency is varied the locus of the cross current is the sum of several circles, the number depending upon how many of the impedance arms vary with frequency. The general 5-arm network is treated analytically and the application of the method in determining the loci is illustrated by a typical network for which the cross current is evaluated for constant and for varying frequency."
"Insulation resistance of the windings of an electric machine may be used as a barometer for indicating the condition of the windings. On the basis of tests on many machines of different types it is recommended that all insulation resistance readings be taken after the application of 500 volts (d-c) for one minute. The slope of the resistance-time curve at that point gives a combined indication of the moisture content and the quality of the insulation. In this paper are given formulas for the insulation resistance of different types of windings derived from the winding insulation dimensions and expressed in terms of the rated voltage, capacity, and speed of the machine. By the use of nomographs, insulation resistances can be determined in about 15 second's time; 5 of these prepared for different types of machines are included in the paper."
"THE IMPORTANCE to engineers of events taking place in Washington, and the part which American Engineering Council takes in guiding legislation in logical channels, are indicated by the following excerpts from the report of American Engineering Council dated April 18, 1934. Although the status of some of the bills has changed since this report was issued, it reflects the activity of Council in Washington. The report follows:"
"The author wishes to withdraw the solution for a-c circuits presented on p. 365 oi the February 1934 issue of Electrical Engineering, since it has been found upon subsequent investigation, that eq 4 is not applicable as a general solution for unbalanced a-c circuits."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting held May 23, 1934, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no resposibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question"
"Electrical Features of Ford Exhibit at Chicago Fair. One hundred miles of electric wiring, more than 225 electric motors, a lighting display which includes a battery of 9,000 concealed floodlights, an amplifying system containing more than 750 loudspeakers this is only part of the electrical installation for the Ford Exposition Building at the 1934 World's Fair in Chicago. The huge Ford project, covering over 11 acres, will require a load of 6,000 kilowatts, or more than a third of the total electric capacity of the entire Fair in 1933. The exhibits will show in actual operation practically all of the steps required in Ford manufacturing, from the raw materials to the finished parts of cars."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IN MY last message I spoke of the desirability of “tidying up” the Institute and the profession and mentioned a number of proposals which seemed to be directed toward that result. Now the cardinal principle of tidiness is “a place for everything and everything in its place” and since writing that message I have been thinking about that principle in relation to the A.I.E.E."
"Operational calculus is useful in both the formulation and solution of the differential equations involved in engineering problems, and because of its power and directness it is finding increasing favor in engineering analysis. It is especially helpful to the electrical engineer because many of his problems involve transients, the analysis of which requires the solution of differential equations. In this article is presented not a popular treatment of operational calculus (several of which already have been published), but rather a brief survey of the historical development, an introduction to the background, and a summary of the threads of rigorous analysis that bind the many processes into a rational and systematic whole. This is the tenth in a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"The application of the grid-controlled gas-filled, or “thyratron,” electronic tube to relay practice, principally for the protection of transmission lines, is considered in this paper. Several different types of these relays are discussed under the 2 principal classifications of “normal” design and high speed relays. This paper by Doctor Wideröe, based upon European practice, should be of considerable interest in this country."
"The A.I.E.E. transformer subcommittee∗ has planned an extension of the scope of the Institute publication relating to the operation of transformers to include recommendations for the short-time overloading of oil-immersed transformers in service. These recommendations take advantage of the heat storage capacities of the materials of the transformer to supplement present recommendations relating to the continuous overloading that is possible when the ambient temperature is lower than the standard ambient temperature. This report gives a brief review of the considerations upon which the proposed changes are based and includes the new material in the form in which the subcommittee has prepared it. It is submitted to the Institute for constructive criticism."
"By introducing new courses and new methods of instruction, engineering education is meeting the challenge of industry to teach engineers how to solve problems involving economic and social as well as engineering aspects. A few of the steps already taken or contemplated in this direction by several leading engineering colleges are outlined in this paper."
"The various factors which enter into a determination of the temperatures in turbine generator rotors are discussed in this paper, and a method of calculating temperatures is given. It is shown that a large number of variables can be taken into account in a relatively simple manner and that the method can be applied with accuracy to all sizes and types of turbine generator rotors."
"A new type of timer and controller for use in the field of resistance welding of thin alloy sheets of brass, aluminum, stainless steel, and kindred metals where a very high current is applied for a very short interval of time is described in this paper. In this new timer, the “ignitron” type of tube is applied for obtaining precise control of the welding current. Controls for intermittent duty, high speed automatic duty, and heavy duty seam welding are described."
"In this paper systems are described whereby frequency band widths of the order of 1,000 kc or more may be transmitted for long distances over coaxial lines and utilized for purposes of multiplex telephony or television. A coaxial line is a metal tube surrounding a central conductor and separated from it by insulating supports."
"A welding rectifier embodying the “ignitron” principle, a recent development in a program of research on mercury arc rectifiers, provides predetermined welding currents for periods of time variable in steps of 1/120 sec, or less if desired. This paper describes the design and operation of the “ignitron” and illustrates its applicability to the problems involved in line welding processes."
"The operation of inverters for obtaining alternating current from direct current is first considered in this paper, both the grid controlled rectifier and the “ignitron,” a special type of mercury vapor tube, being analyzed. The duty on the inverter tube is next discussed, and special attention is then given to the “ignitron” inverter. Experimental results obtained with this latter type of inverter are given."
"Studies of the dielectric properties of pure cellulose paper as used for high voltage insulation are reported in this paper. The studies reported in Part I, presented herewith, include investigation of the dielectric loss, phase difference, and capacitance of paper insulated specimens as related to the moisture content of the paper. In Part II, which is scheduled for publication in a subsequent issue, these studies are extended to the variations in dielectric properties as related to temperature when the paper is extremely dry."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by Didier Journeaux published in the June 1934 issue, p. 976–88, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 27, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by C. L. Dawes published in the June issue, p. 910–4, and presented for oral discussion at the education session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 26, 1934, (Discussions of the group of papers of which this was a part are given under the group heading on an earlier page.)"
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by L. W. W. Morrow published in the April 1934 issue, p. 518–22, and presented for oral discussion at the education session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 26, 1934. (Discussions of the group of papers of which this was a part are given under the group heading on an earlier page.)"
"OPENING on Labor Day, Monday, September 3, 1934, the 22d Pacific Coast convention of the Institute held forth during the week at the Hotel Utah in Salt Lake City. Enthusiasm at the technical sessions and during the entertainment features remained high-throughout the week."
"FOR THE nomination of national officers to be voted upon in the spring of 1935, the A.I.E.E. national nominating committee will meet between November 15 and December 15, 1934. To guide this committee in performing its constituted task, suggestions from the membership are, of course, highly desirable. To be available for the consideration of the committee, all such suggestions must be received by the secretary of the committee at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., not later than November 15, 1934. In accordance with the provisions of the constitution and bylaws, quoted herewith, actions relative to the organization of the national nominating committee now are under way."
"Contributions to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. STATEMENTS in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"C.O. BICKELHAUPT (M'22, F'28) assistant vice president, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, New York, NY, has been appointed chairman of the Institute's publication committee for 1934–35. He was born at Roscoe, S. D., in 1888, and received the degrees of B.S., in 1911, and E.E., in 1914, from the University of Wisconsin. During several summers preceding graduation in 1911, he was employed by the Dakota Central Telephone Company. In the latter year he entered the American Telephone and Telegraph Company as an engineering assistant, becoming general commercial problems engineer in 1920, toll traffic engineer in 1922, and later in that year commercial engineer. From 1925 to 1930 he was vice president, director, and member of the executive committee of the Southern Bell Telephone Company, and during 1925–26 also held these offices in the Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Company. Since 1930 he has been an assistant vice president of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and a director of the Bell Telephone Securities Company. He has been a vice president and a director of the Institute, and has served on a number of committees. He has been reappointed as chairman of the committee on economic status of the engineer, and in addition is a member of the following committees: award of Institute prizes; constitution and by-laws; coordination of Institute activities; and technical program. Mr. Bickelhaupt also is the Institute's representative on the American 1 engineering Council and the Engineers' Council for Professional Development. He is a member of the New York Electrical Society and of the American Engineering Council, of which he is a vice president and committee member and chairman."
"WALTER WOOD (A'04) partner, R. D. Wood and Company, Philadelphia, Pa., died April 20, 1934. He was born at Philadelphia on Dec. 6, 1849, and received the degree of A.B. from Haverford College in 1867 and from Harvard University in 1868. In that year he entered R. D. Wood and Company, an organization which was founded in 1803. Mr. Wood was treasurer of the Millville Gas Works and president of the Florence Iron Works. He was also a director of the Burlington (N. J.) City Loan and Trust Company, and a trustee of Haverford College. He was a member of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the American Society for Testing Materials, and the American Waterworks Association. His club membership included: Union League, Manufacturers', Art, University, and City, all of Philadelphia; Machinery, Engineers', University, Harvard, and City of New York"
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following list of candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In the light of basic processes discussed in the 2 previous articles of this group, this article reviews some facts and current theories concerning the various classes of self-maintained electric discharges in gases. This is the concluding article of a group of 3 devoted to the general subject of electric discharges in gases, the 2 previous articles having reviewed current knowledge concerning ionization and excitation, and ions in dense gases, respectively; it is the fifth of a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, for full details concerning which see p. 238 of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for February 1934."
"A study of the type of engineering graduate who will most satisfactorily meet the demands of industry and will be best adapted to present social conditions is contained in this paper. As a result of this analysis, changes in the type of college instruction now given are proposed. It is pointed out that the majority of students should be given a broad education which coördinates instruction in science, engineering, economics, and psychology, so as to fit the graduate for the managerial positions in industry; while a smaller group should be given specialized scientific and engineering instruction."
"The present theory of electric conduction in solid conductors and semiconductors is reviewed here by a recognized authority who interprets some of the results of modern physical research in the light of their bearing upon the theory of electric conductivity. First the author gives a short review of the present theory, then discusses the breakdown of ionic crystals, the quantum theory, and cold discharge phenomena."
"A brief description of the deep sea telephone circuit laid in 1932 between Italy and the island of Sardinia is contained in this article."
"Some recent developments in the protection of electric power systems to meet the special problems on the system of the Southern California Edison Company, Ltd., are discussed in this paper. Among these developments are means to provide greater protection against high resistance faults, a simplified carrier current pilot protection scheme, a method of automatic system separation when out-of-step conditions occur, and several miscellaneous applications."
"Predetermination of the bend in the locked saturation curves of squirrel cage induction motors is becoming increasingly necessary for design. The reasons why this curve deviates from a straight line are discussed in this paper, and a method of attacking the problem is given. Results calculated by this method for a number of machines are compared with the tested results. It is shown that the work involved in using the formulas and curves presented is not excessive."
"Some recent developments in power line carrier telephone equipment that greatly enhance the value of this type of communication are described in this paper. Two outstanding developments have been an automatic volume control, and means for interconnecting the carrier circuits with 2-wire telephone facilities. In addition, much has been achieved in lowering installation and maintenance costs, and in improving reliability of operation."
"In testing various types of apparatus used in electrical communication circuits, it is often desirable to obtain a single average reading over a range of frequencies. For this purpose a “warble” tone, or a tone the frequency of which varies cyclically over the desired range, is used. In this paper is described a new type of electronic tube warble tone generator which utilizes a “relaxation” oscillator and has no mechanically moving parts."
"Radio programs are regularly transmitted between broadcasting stations over wire line facilities furnished by the Bell System. Both cable and open wire facilities are employed for this service. Recently a new program transmission system for use on open wire lines has been developed which has highly satisfactory characteristics. A description of this open wire system and test results obtained with it are given in this paper."
"Open wire circuits recently have been developed for transmitting radio broadcast programs with greater naturalness and over greater distances than heretofore (see companion paper “Wide-Band Open-Wire Program System” in this issue). The simultaneous utilization of these circuits for the transmission of broadcast programs and carrier telephone messages requires the use of line filters to restrict the program and carrier currents to the proper circuits. The low pass line filter developed for the program circuits and its contribution to the maintenance of good quality in the programs transmitted are described in this paper."
"The steady state stability limit of a power system, and adjusted synchronous reactance, are considered in this paper. A graphical solution of the problems of the determination of the steady state power limits is described, based directly upon the use of the general circuit constants of the transmission line."
"An electronic rectifier built for testing radio transmitting tubes is described, and some of the factors influencing precision of control are discussed briefly."
"Part I of this paper on incremental rates was published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for March 1934, p. 432–45. The second and concluding part is presented herewith."
"Discussion of a paper by C. M. Gilt published in the December 1933 issue, p. 868–75, and presented for oral discussion at the electric power switching discussion of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 456–61."
"Discussion of a paper by Raymond Bailey and F. R. Ford, published in the January 1934 issue, p. 156–61, and presented for oral discussion at the electric power switching discussion of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 456–61."
"Discussion of a paper by A. P. Fugill published in the January 1934 issue, p. 162–8, and presented for oral discussion at the electric power switching discussion of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 456–61."
"Discussion of a paper by H. E. Dyche and R. E. Hellmund published in the January 1934 issue, p. 103–8, and presented for oral discussion at the education session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 44–4"
"Discussion of a paper by W. Schaake published in the January 1934 issue, p. 182–9, and presented for oral discussion at the transportation session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 451."
"Discussion of a paper by Howard M. Trueblood and George Wascheck published in the December 1933 issue, p. 898–907, and presented for oral discussion at the transportation session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 450–1."
"Discussion of a paper by H. S. Black published in the January 1934 issue, p. 114–20, and presented for oral discussion at the communication session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 461–2."
"Discussion of a paper by M. V. Healey published in the January 1934 issue, p. 120–3, and presented for oral discussion at the electric furnace session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 452–3; 455."
"Discussion of a paper by E. L. Crosby published in the January 1934 issue, p. 132–8, and presented for oral discussion at the electric furnace session of the winter convention. New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 452–3; 454–5."
"Discussion of a paper by C. A. Adams, J. C. Hodge, and M. H. MacKusick, published in the January 1934 issue, p. 194–205, and presented for oral discussion at the electric furnace session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions or this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 452–3; 455–6."
"Discussion of a paper by Samuel Arnold, 3rd, published in the December 1933 issue, p. 839–43, and presented for oral discussion at the electric furnace session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 452–4."
"Discussion of a paper by S. B. Crary published in the November 1933 issue, p. 787–92, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Another discussion of this paper was published in the March 1934 issue, p. 477."
"Discussion of a paper by L. V. Bewley published in the December 1933 issue, p. 876–84, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 471–3."
"Discussion of a paper by Charles L. G. Fortescue published in the December 1933 issue, p. 908–17, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 467–80."
"Discussion of a paper by Joseph S. Carroll, Bradley Cozzens, and Theo. M. Blakeslee, published in the December 1933 issue, p. 854–60, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 470–1."
"Discussion of a paper by Alex A. Kroneberg and Mabel Macferran published in the November 1933 issue, p. 758–66, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 473–5."
"Discussion of a paper by Edith Clarke and R. G. Lorraine published in the December 1933 issue, p. 780–7, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 475–7."
"Discussion of a paper by W. S. Petersen published in the August 1933 issue, p. 569–72, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 24, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 477–8."
"Discussion of a paper by L. R. Ludwig, F. A. Maxfield, and A. H. Toepfer published in the January 1934 issue, p. 75–8, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 488–9."
"Discussion of a paper by S. B. Gary, L. A. March, and L. P. Shildneck, published in the January 1934 issue, p. 124–32, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 484–8."
"Discussion of a paper by L. F. Blume and F. L. Woods published in the December 1933 issue, p. 884–9, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 483."
"Discussion of a paper by J. F. Calvert published in the January 1934 issue, p. 139–46, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions on this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 488."
"Discussion of a paper by P. W. Blye and H. E. Kent published in the January 1934 issue, p. 54–63, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 483–4."
"Discussion of a paper by W. R. Bullard and D. H. Keyes published in the December 1933 issue, p. 890–8, and presented for oral discussion at the power distribution session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 489–95."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on power distribution of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions of these papers were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 489–95."
"Discussion of a paper by J. Allen Johnson and R. T. Henry published in the December 1933 issue, p. 831–8, and presented for oral discussion at the power distribution session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 489–95."
"Discussion of a paper by J. R. North and J. R. Eaton published in the January 1934 issue, p. 63–74, and presented for oral discussion at the protective devices session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 462–5."
"Discussion of a paper by A. E. Anderson published in the January 1934 issue, p. 48–53, and presented for oral discussion at the protective devices session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 466–7."
"Discussion of a paper by Herman Halperin and K. B. McEachron published in the January 1934 issue, p. 33–7, and presented for oral discussion at the protective devices session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 465."
"Discussion of a paper by A. R. van C. Warrington published in the January 1934 issue, p. 206–13, and presented for oral discussion at the protective devices session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 23, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 465–6."
"Discussion of a paper by C. F. Hill, T. R. Watts, and G. A. Burr published in the January 1934 issue, p. 176–82, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical measurements session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 478–81."
"Discussion of a paper by J. L. Thomason published in the January 1934 issue, p. 169–76, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical measurements session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934."
"Discussion of a paper by P. L. Bellaschi published in the January 1934 issue, p. 86–94, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical measurements session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1934 issue, p. 481–2."
"Discussion of a paper by S. L. Burgwin published in the January 1934 issue, p. 108–13, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical measurements session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934."
"Discussion of a paper by B. H. Smith published in the January 1934 issue, p. 94–5, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical measurements session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., Jan. 25, 1934."
"The student Branch convention for the Institute's North Eastern District is to be held on Friday, May 18, 1934, at Worcester,. Mass., in conjunction with the tenth annual meeting of this District, as announced in an item appearing on preceding pages of the news section of this issue. The Bancroft Hotel is to be the headquarters for the District meeting on Wednesday and Thursday, but all activities scheduled for Friday and including those of Friday evening are to be at the Worcester Polytechnic Institute."
"A meeting of the executive committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on March 9, 1934, in place of the regular meeting of the board of directors."
"Members of the Institute who contemplate visiting foreign countries are reminded that since 1912 the Institute has had reciprocal arrangements with a number of foreign engineering societies for the exchange of visiting member privileges, which entitle members of the Institute while abroad to membership privileges in these societies for a period of 3 months and members of foreign societies visiting the United States to the privileges of Institute membership for a like period of time, upon presentation of proper credentials. A form of certificate which serves as credentials from the Institute to the foreign societies for the use of Institute members desiring to avail themselves of these exchange privileges may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters, New York. The members should specify which country or countries they expect to visit, so that the proper number of certificates may be provided, one certificate being addressed to only one society."
"The dates of September 3–7, inclusive, have been approved by the Institute's executive committee for the 1934 Pacific Coast convention to be held in Salt Lake City, Utah. This convention takes the place of that originally scheduled to be held in Salt Lake City, September 4–8, 1933, but subsequently postponed."
"THE FIFTIETH annual summer convention of the A.I.E.E. will be held at Hot Springs, Va., June 25–29, 1934, with headquarters in the Homestead Hotel. This picturesque setting with its excellent facilities for sports and recreation together with a well-rounded technical program offers an ideal opportunity for members and their guests to enjoy a very pleasant and profitable week. As an additional feature this year, the opening session will be devoted partly to a special program commemorating the 50th Anniversay of the Institute, in which prominent members will take part."
"This statement from I. Melville Stein, chairman of the A.I.E.E. Sections committee outlines a proposal that merits the thoughtful attention of every member of the Institute in order that the subject may be discussed thoroughly and constructively at the annual conference of officers, delegates, and members that will be an important part of the program of the fiftieth annual summer convention, to be held June 25–29, 1934, at Hot Springs, Va."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjec ts of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. STATEMENTS in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting held February 28, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary"
"Meter Devices Co. Expands. Due to the rapid growth of its business, the Meter Devices Co. has found it necessary to move into a new factory and offices at 1001 Prospect Ave., S.W., Canton, Ohio. In addition to meter test switches and test blocks, the company also produces a complete line of meter accessories and devices."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Now appearing month-by-month in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING is a series of articles written by some of the foremost authorities in several of the more important and rapidly advancing fields of science that are of special significance to electrical engineers. The original idea was suggested by Prof. Vladimir Karapetoff of Cornell University who urged the preparation and publication of “a series of short articles in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for the guidance of ambitious young engineers who wish to prepare themselves for the newer problems (to be met) after the recovery from the present depression.” Taken under advisement by the A.I.E.E. committee on education this suggestion was developed through the active cooperation of many interested parties. The result of more than a year of thoughtful planning, development, and coordination, and presenting the generous contributions of some of the highest recognized authorities, this series of articles aptly has been called a post-college course in contemporary science."
"In view of the widespread occurrence and the current technical importance of the various manifestations of free electricity in gases, this article appropriately reviews current knowledge concerning the nature of such free charges, how they arise from the normally uncharged atoms and molecules of a gas, and their relation to light radiation. This is the third in a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, and the first of three that will deal with the major divisions of the general subject of electric discharges in gases; the second will deal with the laws governing the movement of free charges through a gas, and the third will discuss known types of discharges in the light of the basic processes which by that time will have been set forth in these columns."
"A series of accelerated life tests on 14 different oils as used for the impregnation of one grade of cable insulating paper is described herein. Complete absence of gaseous ionization was insured in these tests. It is shown that there is a definite relationship between the life of impregnated paper under stress, and the capillary constant of the oil. With oils of one definite type, the life of the paper increases with penetrative power. Between oils of different types, there may be differences in the relation of penetrative power to life. The influence of dielectric loss on life is negligible, and the values of power factor during life tests appear to have no relation to life."
"Effects of external impedance on short-circuit currents in synchronous machines and in networks are discussed in this article. The material presented is not claimed to be new; its chief value lies in the confirmation of calculations by test results, which tends to increase confidence in formulas previously developed. The formulas and test data are given in a form convenient for ready reference."
"Penetrability studies have been made to measure the wetting of dielectrics, in an effort to secure information on the electrical characteristics of impregnated fibrous structures. The results of these studies are discussed in this article, which includes studies of the penetration of water, benzene, and several insulating materials."
"A method of locating ground faults on electric power transmission lines has been developed wherein the location of a fault can be determined accurately and conveniently from the percentage distribution of ground current fed into the fault from the 2 ends of the line. This method has been applied to the Pennsylvania-New Jersey 220-kv interconnection since 1930; results obtained indicate a large saving in time and expense over what normally would be involved in locating the faults by previous methods."
"No current rupturing device is provided between pantograph and main transformer on electric locomotives recently placed in operation on the Pennsylvania Railroad; instead a “pantograph relay” is used which is connected so as to utilize the substation circuit breakers to open high voltage short circuits, grounds, or overloads on the locomotive. A voltage relay is used to change the field strength of the traction motors at a predetermined speed, and slip relays provide protection against wheel slippage."
"Design features of the Port Washington power plant serving the Milwaukee area are described in this article, which covers both steam and electric equipment. Summaries of certain economic studies which formed the basis for decisions are included, but no statistical information on the various pieces of equipment is given. The initial installation includes an 80,000-kw unit, utilizing 1,230-lb steam pressure, and 825 deg F steam temperature."
"In previous investigations of corona loss on electric conductors, variations in loss were observed that were believed to be caused by daily variations in atmospheric conditions. Consequently, a series of tests was made to investigate the effects of humidity, pressure, temperature, and smoke; the results are given in this article."
"Among the benefits obtained by the cabling of telephone circuits is the substantial reduction in magnetically induced voltages that can be realized from the shielding action of the lead sheath. Even greater shielding is attainable if the cable is provided with a steel armor or is installed in iron pipe conduit. In this paper is presented a method for the quantitative prediction of the electromagnetic shielding effected by such iron-surrounded telephone cable sheaths, experimental verification of its applicability, and the necessary impedance data for its utilization."
"In this article are analyzed the effects of increasing the rate of acceleration, free running speed, and rate of braking upon the energy consumption of multiple unit electric passenger cars. Analyses of 4 typical one-mile runs are given."
"The characteristics and stability of performance of the control springs used in electrical measuring instruments are important factors in the accuracy of such instruments. Supplementing the slight amount of published information on this subject, the following article presents some of the manufacturing knowledge necessary for the production of instrument springs of high quality."
"A loading-back test has been used for the determination of the stray load losses in polyphase induction machines. This test, which was found to have a high degree of accuracy, enables the various losses to be separated. The application of the test is simple and convenient."
"An optical system designed to permit simultaneous viewing and photographing has been incorporated in a new portable oscillograph which is rugged in construction and weighs but 22 lb. It is particularly adapted for observing and photographing recurrent wave forms and certain types of transient phenomena. This oscillograph should find many fields of application where the refinements of present larger types are not required."
"Design of a feeder voltage regulator having no moving parts, and a method of improving alternator stability are discussed in this article. Both schemes utilize nonlinear inductive circuits, and were developed by the authors while they were undergraduate students."
"A recent investigation into the behavior of Lichtenberg figures and streamers extending out from an electrode resting on a glass plate coated on the opposite side with tin foil is reported in this paper. The new data offered throw considerable light on the formation and characteristics of these interesting figures."
"The effect of high oil pressure upon the electrical strength of cable insulation has been subjected to a series of tests which are reported in this paper. These tests show that an increase in pressure will result in an increase in the breakdown voltage, the magnitude depending upon the time duration of the test. Although in the long time tests breakdown voltage was doubled by pressure increased from 1 to 6 atmospheres, no improvement was secured with impulse tests by a pressure increase up to 11 atmospheres."
"A study of voltage regulation and load distribution is given in this section of the author's work on power system primary networks, solutions of practical operating problems under both normal and abnormal conditions being given. Simple equations are presented to enable the distribution engineer to determine the proper settings of compensators and contact-making voltmeters; and other practical problems are discussed and answered."
"Magnetic tests on silicon steel at 60 cycles with superposed d-c excitation are described in this article. The results, which are expressed in the form of curves, constitute an addition to existing data on this subject, and should be helpful to designers of apparatus in which combined alternating and direct magnetic fields exist."
"The range of the high speed air circuit breaker has been extended to a 10,000-amp 750-volt d-c continuous rating. It is particularly adaptable to railway systems, and in this larger rating, a single unit has ample capacity for the largest size conversion units now available for 600-volt service. A description of the new circuit breaker is given in this article."
"Energy consumption on a street railway is affected by several variable factors; but because of their interrelation, it has been difficult to determine the separate effect of any one of these variables. A prolonged and detailed study on the railway property of the St. Louis (Mo.) Public Service Company, however, has resulted in the determination of relationships between energy consumption and weather conditions, passenger loading, and speed."
"A set of decrement curves useful in determining the magnitude of short-circuit currents on power systems has been calculated, based upon assumptions somewhat different from those used for previous decrement curves. These changes are intended to increase the usefulness of such curves and extend their range of application. Proper selection of oil circuit breakers and the determination of relay setting may be facilitated by the use of these curves."
"In this paper are discussed some of the problems of the transformer design engineer in regard to the effect of different winding arrangements, and some of the means employed to predetermine transformer reactance and to keep stray losses at a minimum. A reactance model has been developed to assist the transformer design engineer in checking reactance and stray loss calculations."
"The importance of using regular windings in polyphase wound rotor induction motors is stressed in this paper. Harmful effects upon the efficiency, power factor, breakdown torque, and noise of the motor may result with an irregular winding, due to differential leakage. The Goerges diagram of tooth fluxes is presented for studying this phenomenon. Means of avoiding trouble of this sort also are pointed out. It is further observed that 3-phase motors having a number of poles which is a multiple of 6 are most likely to be troublesome."
"A simplified method of calculating the reactance and eddy current losses of transformers with nonuniformly distributed windings is presented in this paper. The method has been in use for several years and has yielded highly satisfactory results."
"THE official registration of the Institute's 1934 winter convention recently held in New York, N. Y., Jan. 23–26, totaled 1,227 persons. This attendance was particularly gratifying to all who had worked to make the convention a success, as it is an appreciable increase over last year's registration. Also, there was a notable increase in out-of-town attendance. This, and other information, is revealed by a study of Tables I and II. The nominal registration fee charged all nonmembers except enrolled students and wives and children of members, and applied this year for the first time in recent winter conventions, apparently did not act to hold down the registration. Several innovations were introduced into this year's convention, as may be noted in the following paragraphs."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. STATEMENTS in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following list of candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"ALL OF US who grew up on farms will recall the occasions when trimming and pruning of the appie orchard became necessary. Dead wood and “suckers” had to be trimmed out, and the trees generally “tidied up.” Some immediate crop was sacrificed, but if judiciously executed the process was salutary and in the end resulted in more shapely and accessible trees and more and better apples."
"TWO outstanding characteristics of the Institute's work have been especially striking during my term as president. The first is the high degree of efficiency and the smooth operation which characterizes the chief feature of the Institute's work, viz., the reception, the consideration, the publication, the presentation, and the discussion of technical papers. The enthusiasm, energy, skill, and competence with which our technical committees function is evidently based upon a combination of profit from experience, and devotion to the Institute and its ideals. Changes of personnel, changes of administration, cannot disturb the smooth functioning of an organization perfected over the years and always animated by the highest professional spirit. Supported by an equally efficient and devoted headquarters staff, it is not to be wondered at that an incoming president, timorous with uncertainty, and dreading the necessity for the study of detail, should experience a feeling of immense relief at the realization of how large a proportion of the Institute's work can go on without his attention and probably be the better therefor."
"An illuminating analysis of the reasons for and obligations of a profession, and in particular of the A.I.E.E."
"Although the present amazing variety of applications of the photoelectric cell has been developed entirely during the past decade, the photoelectric effect was discovered during the nineteenth century. This article gives a brief account of the fundamental laws of photoelectric phenomena and their theoretical significance; it is the eighth of a series of special articles prepared under sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, for full details of which see p. 238 of the February issue."
"A number of recent advances in television methods, such as electronic scanning, receiver synchronizing via the signal channel, and light sensitive devices of great sensitivity have made possible the construction of television equipment which is thoroughly useful. Scenes with motion thus may be transmitted instantaneously, and the resulting image is stated to be almost equal in detail to good home motion pictures. The various units of a complete modern television system are discussed in this paper, with particular emphasis on the scanning, amplifying, and light translation devices. Transmission is stated to be feasible by either wire or radio."
"A modification of the tube or reflected wave method for measuring the sound absorption coefficients of acoustic and building materials over a wide frequency range is described in this paper. Modern communication equipment is used, and a high degree of reliability is obtained. The method is especially well adapted to rapid routine tests of acoustic materials in commercial production, and in other instances where measurements by the more elaborate and expensive reverberation-chamber method are not justified."
"Different theories have been advanced as to the behavior of the counterpoise in the protection of power transmission lines against lightning. In an attempt to learn more about the counterpoise and to check the theories of its behavior, a series of basic field tests was conducted. The results of these tests, made on both the parallel insulated counterpoise and the buried counterpoise, are reported in this paper. The data obtained are analyzed, and conclusions are drawn."
"The high efficiency of the carbon arc, the flexible and uniform quality of radiation it provides, and its extremely high intrinsic brilliancy give it a prominent place in the broad field of illumination. For applications in which a powerful light must be obtained from a source of small dimensions, it is unsurpassed. Characteristics of the various types of carbon arcs and their applications are outlined in this paper."
"Lightning currents ranging from about 4,000 to 63,000 amp in the towers of electric power transmission lines have been measured by the surge crest ammeter; of 64 readings obtained, all but 2 showed currents of negative polarity. This paper is the fifth in a series by the same authors reporting the results of a continued investigation of lightning effects on several typical transmission lines in different parts of the United States."
"A method of representing approximately an empirical magnetizing curve is outlined in this article. An example illustrating application of the method is included."
"Investigation of the effects of lightning discharges on the 220-kv transmission lines of the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company has been continued over a period of several years; results obtained during the period 1931–33 are reported and analyzed in this paper. By the use of the “distribution ratio method” of locating faults nearly all 220-kv faults causing line trip-outs were found quickly and positively correlated with time, dynamic current, lightning current, insulator flashovers, line construction, and tower footing resistance."
"Lightning performance of the 132-kv transmission lines of the American Gas and Electric Company during 1932–33 is reported in this paper. Analysis of lightning performance of these lines, records of which have been kept for the past 9 years, has resulted in definite progress being made in understanding the lightning problem and also in definite conclusions regarding many aspects thereof."
"Some theoretical considerations involved in incandescent phenomena, with particular reference to incandescent illumination, are discussed briefly in this paper. In spite of the recent remarkable achievements in luminescent illumination, the incandescent lamp still is believed to await a genuine challenge."
"Radiation and conduction phenomena in low pressure gaseous discharge lamps are discussed in this paper. Results of measurements on the variables in a discharge are given, and an attempt is made to correlate them with the concentration of atoms at different energy levels, and with the luminous efficiency. An insight into the fundamental processes which occur in a gas discharge and govern the production of light in low pressure discharges are given. In Part I, which follows, radiation processes are discussed, and in Part II, scheduled for publication in the next issue, electrical conduction processes are covered."
"Because of the rapid extension of police radio systems, and because both electric power lines and police cars occupy the highways, the problem of power line radio influence has acquired an added importance. Insulators coated with dirt, moisture, and hygroscopic salts have been found to cause radio disturbances at voltages much less than those for clean insulators."
"A series of tests on suspension insulators for power transmission lines is described in this paper, and results are given which should be of interest to design engineers. The tests made included long-time fatigue tests, the distribution of voltage over the insulator string, and the flashover voltage when some of the units are electrically defective."
"COMPLETING its first half century of technical and professional service, the American Institute of Electrical Engineers held its 50th annual summer convention during the week of June 25 at the Homestead Hotel, Hot Springs, Va. With but minor deviations, the program as previously published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING was followed out. In addition to the annual conference, the various technical sessions, and the regular meeting of the board of directors, numerous technical and other committee and subcommittee groups took advantage of the opportunity to hold informal meetings."
"All is in readiness for the Pacific Coast convention, which will be held in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 3–7, 1934, with headquarters in the Hotel Utah. The general convention committee, under the chairmanship of B. C. J. Wheatlake, has arranged an excellent series of events 5 technical sessions, 2 Student sessions, with sports and ample opportunity for recreation in this scenic vacation land. With Yellowstone National Park but a night's ride from Salt Lake City, and such scenic wonders as the Grand Canyon, Zion and Bryce Canyons within the boundaries of Utah and Northern Arizona, members are offered unusual possibilities to combine a few vacation days with the convention trip. There is also a possibility of combining a trip to Boulder Dam, now at its most interesting construction stage, with the convention trip to the Utah Parks."
"HELD jointly under the auspices of the Sections committee and the committee on Student Branches, the regular conference of officers, delegates, and members of the Institute, was held at Hot Springs, Va., Monday and Tuesday afternoons, June 25–26, 1934, as a part of the summer convention activities. Present at these sessions were delegates from 55 Institute sections, and counselor-delegates from 6 of the 9 districts in which committees on student activities have been organized. In addition to these formally constituted delegates, there were other officers, officers-elect, and Institute members, bringing the recorded attendance total up to 101. The principal topics under discussion at the conference were as outlined ina program previously mailed to the delegates and others:"
"To the Editor: The most interesting article by Professor Bennett on “Theory of Probability” published in the November 1933 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, p. 752–7, called forth a “Letter to the Editor” by Mr. S. A. Smith, Jr., published in the January issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, p. 229–30. In this letter Mr. Smith raised a very important question about application of theory of probability to the problem of determining the proper number of spare units in the electric system."
"Joseph Slepian (A'17, F'27) consulting research engineer, Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa., and his co-author L.R. LUDWIG (A'28) have been awarded the 1933 A.I.E.E. national prize for best paper in theory and research for their contribution “A New Method for Initiating the Cathode of an Arc.” Doctor Slepian was bora at Boston in 1891, and received the degrees of A.B., A.M., and Ph.D. from Harvard, the last in 1913. After a year of study in Germany and Paris he was an instructor in mathematics at Cornell University until he entered the student course of the Westinghouse company in 1916. He joined the research department in 1917, shortly thereafter being given charge of the development of electrolytic condensers. In 1921 he devised the autovalve lightning arrester, and as a result of his researches on arcs helater produced the deion circuit breaker. Doctor Slepian holds numerous patents and has written many Institute papers. He is at the present time serving on 3 Institute committees, being chairman of the electrophysics committee."
"HARRIS JOSEPHRYAN (A'87, M'95, F'23, past president, and member for life), emeritus professor of electrical engineering, Leland Stanford, Jr., University, Palo Alto, Calif., died on July 3, 1934, from a heart attack. He was born at Powells Valley, Pa., January 8, 1866, and received his early education at Baltimore City College and Lebanon Valley College. In 1883 he entered Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., as a member of the first class in the newly organized course in electrical engineering, for which the equipment consisted of that of the physics laboratory with the addition of a d-c generator made by W. A. Anthony, president of the Institute, 1890–91. Following his graduation in 1887, Professor Ryan spent 2 years with the Western Engineering Company, Lincoln, Neb., and then returned to Cornell to become an instructor in the physics department."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary before Aug. 31, 1934, or Oct. 31, 1934, if the applicant resides outside of the United States or Canada"
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by thepublishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the prefaceof the book in question."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Field theory, as contradistinct to circuit theory, is shown in this article to become increasingly important in a large number of engineering problems. In addition to the more familiar electric and magnetic fields there are temperature, mechanical stress, hydraulic flow, and other field concepts all reducible to the same mathematical basis. An outline of some of the methods employed in dealing with stationary fields is presented in this paper, conjugate functional methods and conformal representation being considered in detail, preceded by a brief consideration of experimental reproduction, graphical mapping, and mathematical solutions of field problems. This is the twelfth of a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"An analysis of the characteristics of a group of development and research engineers is presented in this paper. From this analysis an attempt is made to point out the weaknesses that were responsible for some men being released during this period of abnormal business conditions, and, conversely, to show the elements of strength that permitted others to be retained. Such an analysis should be helpful not only to the young engineer entering industry and to the teachers who have prepared him, but also to his employers."
"To serve as a guide in the standardization of ratings of electronic tubes, the principal factors involved in the choice of tube ratings together with the more important terms commonly used, are presented in this paper. High vacuum tubes, gas and vapor filled tubes, and photo-electric tubes are considered separately, and the large number of factors which enter into the ratings of each of these 3 classes of tubes are discussed."
"The resistance and reactance of 3-conductor cables under balanced 3-phase loads have been studied in a series of tests in different laboratories, and the results are presented in this paper. Values of these constants are given for different types and sizes of 3-conductor cable, and the effects on the constants of several different factors are presented."
"Two types of students, one fundamentally interested only in engineering, and the other more deeply interested in and capable of leadership, are considered in this paper. For both, a broader training in the humanities is urged. Among the numerous points which it is stated should be brought to the attention of the student engineer is the necessity of realizing that human relationships, which cannot be reduced to a science, are among the most important considerations in later life."
"A nonmathematical discussion of the mechanism whereby energy may be transmitted over long distances at high frequencies by the use of “coaxial conductors” is presented in this paper. A coaxial system consists of a cylindrical conducting tube within which a smaller conductor is coaxially placed. Such conductors, which reduce interference and cross-talk, are applicable for the transmission of telephone, telegraph, and television signals over a very wide range of frequencies."
"A brief review of several important revisions and extensions of the A.I.E.E. standards for transformers recommended by the A.I.E.E. transformer subcommittee is presented herewith in order that those interested may have an opportunity to become familiar with these recommendations and to offer helpful criticism before action on final standards is taken."
"Formulas for determining the unbalance in load of 3 dissimilar single phase transformers operating 3 phase, delta-delta connected."
"The fundamentals of d-c arc welding generators are reviewed in this paper, and the effect of transient currents and voltages upon performance is described. It is then shown how the transients may be controlled by internal arrangements which reduce the induced voltages in the stator circuit and at the same time increase the series reactance of both the field and armature circuits. A new welding generator designed with these features is next described; it is a modification of the split pole type of self-excited machine. Also, comments on the technique of testing welding generators are presented."
"From the results of an investigation on a typical large electric power system, it is concluded that the specification of tolerable noise in transformers by means of measurements with commercially available noise meters is entirely practicable. The problems involved in this investigation and the principal results obtained are presented and discussed in this paper."
"Several distinctive types of cathode ray tubes are described in this paper, starting with a brief description of the Braun type and followed by more detailed descriptions of recently developed types. The characteristics, the selection for a given application, and the operation of sealed-off gas-focused types and of high vacuum types are discussed. Also auxiliary apparatus is considered; and applications of cathode ray tubes are suggested briefly."
"Effects of overloading on the life of oil-immersed self-cooled power transformers are discussed in this paper. Experience has shown that under average loads and ambient temperatures, a transformer rated for a temperature rise of 55 degrees C, has a very long life, and can be overloaded considerably for short periods with little loss in life."
"A universal measuring instrument for communication circuits has been developed which has a number of advantages over previous methods of obtaining measurements in such circuits. This thermionic-tube instrument gives direct measurements of current, voltage, power factor, or power in communication circuits and is accurate over a wide range of frequencies."
"An analysis and summary of some of the concrete problems and considerations involved in the measurement of noise caused by fractional horse power motors are presented in this paper. Some experimental data and several important conclusions are given, but much remains to be done before standardization is possible. Desirable characteristics of a noise meter for this application are pointed out."
"Several different types of tests for the efficiency of induction machines are discussed in this paper, and results obtained by the different methods are compared. The procedure involved in making the different types of tests is given in detail. In the determination of losses, special attention is given to the stray load loss, which, in most previous tests, has not been considered."
"Multiple lightning strokes have long been known to exist, but so far instruments for recording the successive discharges on electric power lines have not been available. The application of expulsion protective gaps to 3 typical transmission lines, however, has made a partial investigation possible, with the aid of the automatic oscillograph. The results of this investigation are presented herewith. As many as 12 successive discharges have been recorded in a single stroke; these discharges have been as close together as 1 cycle (on a 60 cycle system) and as far apart as 9.5 cycles."
"The effect that the shape of electrodes has on the dielectric strength of air when subjected to impulse and 60 cycle voltage waves is considered in this paper. Principal attention is given to rod and plate electrodes and to sphere and plate electrodes, comparative data on the different types being given. Among other factors, the effect of polarity on breakdown voltage is brought out. These data on strength of air between various electrode shapes are correlated into working principles and presented from the standpoint of the design engineer interested in their application."
"On this and the following 15 pages appear all remaining unpublished discussions of papers presented at the 1934 A.I.E.E. summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 25–29, as follows: (1) all papers except one presented at the session on power generation (complete discussion on one paper was published in the November issue); and (2) all papers presented at the session on instruments and measurements. All discussions of the foregoing papers received in complete and acceptable form at Institute headquarters, and subsequently reviewed and recommended for publication by A. I. E. E. technical committees, are included. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"The technical program for the winter convention of the A.I.E.E. to be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., January 22–25, 1935, will include a wealth of engineering information for the profession. New developments, the latest practice, and recent trends toward standardization in various fields of the industry will be presented and discussed. The convention will convene on a Tuesday and technical sessions will be held both mornings and afternoons for the first 3 days. The evenings will be taken up by social events and arrangements are being made for a smoker Tuesday night, the Edison Medal presentation Wednesday night, and the dinner-dance Thursday night. Friday will be devoted exclusively to inspection trips to various places of interest in and about New York. Further details of these features now being arranged will be announced in the January 1935 issue of Electrical Engineering"
"A profession-wide survey to show how engineers have fared through the hard times is being made by the U. S. department of labor in cooperation with American engineering council and as many of the engineering societies as are willing to participate. Unsigned confidential questionnaire returns from 100,000 individuals will give salary trends, types of employers, and duties over the past several years, plus educational background and other facts designed to give a true picture of the engineers' status. Compilation of returns early in the year will show how our people have adjusted to changing conditions and how many are unemployed or in minor jobs, awaiting placement in regular work. This is believed to be the most comprehensive nation-wide study ever made of a professional group. Results are expected to be of immediate practical application to the engineering employment program; will serve as a check against, policies of engineering schools which may be turning out too many graduates in some fields and not enough in lines of current demand. The survey has resulted from negotiations by Council with Dr. Isador Lubin, commissioner of labor statistics, whose Bureau will do the job."
"Contributions to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following list of candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"General Cable Appointments. George Sherry has been appointed general' merchandise manager, and H. B. Tompkins general sales manager of the General Cable Corp. Mr. Tompkins was previously manager of supply sales, General Electric Supply Corp."
"Clip-On Ammeter. Bulletin, 4 pp. Describes the new Ferranti clip-on ammeter with a wide range of full scales and variety of frames, and with openings to take busbars up to 4V2 by 3V2 inches. Twentythree of the more important features of the clip-on ammeter are emphasized. Ferranti Incorporated, 130 West 42nd St., New York."
"This multientry annual reference index covers comprehensively the 12 issues of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for 1934. Particular attention has been directed toward effective correlation between references to technical papers and to associated discussion, if any; a reference to any one of the several entries for each technical paper will lead directly to such discussions concerning that paper as may have been published during 1934. Discussions of papers published during the latter months of any calendar year will be found to be published in practically all cases during the early months of the succeeding year. For convenience in reference use this index is subdivided into the following 5 general divisions: 1. Technical subjects, embracing all non-departmental material published during 1934; 2. Authors, contributors, and discussors, including a listing of all signed articles; 3. News items pertaining to Institute activities; 4. General, non-Institute, news items; and 5. Biographical items, containing the names and page references for all persons whose activities were recorded either in the \"personal\" or \"obituary,\" departments; including also all other entries of a personal rather than of a general news nature."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presenting clearly and concisely a story of the evolution of the electron, as seen from the viewpoint of modern theoretical physics, this article reveals that the electron in many respects is following the “trend of the times.” A review of the status of the electron reveals clearly that its properties have been extended well beyond those contemplated by its discoverer; also that, in following the simple and apparently necessary expedient of endowing the electron with such properties as a wave aspect and a change of mass with velocity, the vividness of the mental conception of an electron has been dulled. The author indicates that, in addition to the mental picture of fundamental atomic processes having become more difficult or even impossible, the intrinsic precision of the processes themselves is called into question by the most recent theories. This is the second in a series of special articles developed under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"The fundamental requirements involved in a system capable of picking up orchestral music, transmitting it a long distance, and reproducing it in a large hall, are discussed in this first paper of the symposium."
"In considering the physical factors affecting it, auditory perspective is defined in this paper as being reproduction which preserves the spatial relationships of the original sounds. Ideally, this would require an infinite number of separate microphone-to-speaker channels; practically, it is shown that good auditory perspective can be obtained with only 2 or 3 channels. This is the second paper in the symposium."
"In ordinary radio broadcast of symphony music, the effort is to create the effect of taking the listener to the scene of the program, whereas in reproducing such music in a large hall before a large gathering the effect required is that of transporting the distant orchestra to the listeners. Lacking the visual diversion of watching the orchestra play, such an audience centers its interest more acutely in the music itself, thus requiring a high degree of perfection in the reproducing apparatus both as to quality and as to the illusion of localization of the various instruments. Principles of design of the loud speakers and microphones used in the Philadelphia-Washington experiment are treated at length in this, the third paper of this symposium."
"Appreciable care is required in the design of a system which must amplify with great fidelity practically the whole range of audible frequencies and be capable of delivering a high level while at the same time providing a wide volume range. Some of the problems involved are discussed, particularly as applying to the equipment used in the reproduction in Washington, D. C., of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra playing in Philadelphia. This is the fourth paper in this symposium."
"Describing methods whereby high quality sound reproduction in auditory perspective can be accomplished over long distances, this discussion centers largely upon a description of the exact technique employed in providing communication transmission circuits for the Philadelphia-Washington demonstration. Problems that might be involved in carrying out such transmission on a more widespread scale also are touched upon. This is the fifth paper in this symposium."
"For the past 4 years actual lightning potentials on the 4-kv overhead distribution system of the Commonwealth Edison Company, Chicago, have been measured by means of surge voltage recorders. The methods used and conclusions drawn from the results obtained are given here."
"In this paper is set forth the comparative investment in distribution plant necessary over a 10-year period to provide for load increase in a typical section of Chicago, either by means of the existing radial feeder system or a primary network system. The results show that, in terms of both total new investment and accumulated annual costs, the use of the radial feeder system is the more economical in this case."
"Although frequencies now are standardized in the melting field and soon will be in the heating field, most types of furnaces require special equipment. The electrical equipment discussed in this paper includes the frequency converters, the switching, and the capacitors. Typical installations are shown and the advantages and possibilities of water-cooled equipment are mentioned."
"Solutions for various problems encountered in connection with the automatic reclosing of oil circuit breakers are given in this paper. The results of studies made by several companies, and a brief description of devices for this type of service, also are given."
"Operation of mercury arc rectifiers generally results in increased harmonic currents in the rectifier supply circuits and may result in increased harmonic voltages. While these harmonics usually are not serious from the standpoint of the power system, they may result in interference to communication circuits exposed to the power circuits. This paper presents a method of computing these harmonic voltages and currents, and discusses methods of coordinating telephone systems and a-c power systems supplying rectifiers."
"Petersen coils installed on part of a 140-kv transmission system operating with the neutral ungrounded have successfully eliminated a large percentage of interruptions due to line-to-ground faults which occurred on that section. Detailed tests, presented in this paper, also have been made, and indicate many characteristics of the Petersen coil system."
"Experiments aimed at the elimination of the backfire tendency of arc-rectifiers have led to a device termed the “ignitron.” Equipment, methods, and test data are discussed in this paper."
"Recent developments of the inductor alternator for the generation of modulated high frequency currents for telephone or telegraph signaling or carrier purposes are given in this paper. Several novel arrangements of the electric and magnetic circuits and certain principles and special details of design and construction are described."
"There has been developed a generator for the production of heavy surge currents in excess of 100,000 amperes and of effective durations greater than 100 μsec. Methods of measuring these currents by the cathode ray oscillograph with good engineering accuracy also have been developed. Some features of lightning phenomena may now be investigated which were not possible of study with the high-surge-voltage generator."
"A new demand meter has been developed which is suitable for attaching to either a single-phase or polyphase watthour meter, and which appears to have an accuracy and all around serviceability approaching that of the watthour meter itself. It has a definite law for averaging loads, and is smooth in operation."
"Results of a recently completed study of methods of increasing the distribution facilities in Somerville, Mass., are presented in this paper. The economic study included several different plans covering a 10-year period, and as a result a plan is proposed which permits modification to suit future conditions."
"Recognizing that some of the highest types of graduate engineering instruction is to be found in a few of the larger research and industrial organizations, the University of Pittsburgh (Pa.) and the Westinghouse company during the past several years have cooperated in a joint program of graduate study for certain designated employees of the company. Besides being of distinct benefit to the individual employee, this work has had a highly stimulating influence upon the faculty members of the university connected with it, and the results have been most gratifying to the industry."
"A rectangular coördinate potentiometer circuit is described in this paper, the chief features of which are the elimination of the usual phase shifting transformer and the slide-wire type of potentiometer resistor. Although not yet available in commercial form, this potentiometer has been in use in the laboratory for several years with good results, particularly in magnetic measurements at low and medium inductions and in measurements of the power factor of capacitors."
"This paper describes and explains the theory of the feed-back principle and demonstrates how stability of amplification, reduction of modulation products, and certain other advantages follow when stabilized feed-back is applied to an amplifier. The underlying principle of design by means of which “singing” is avoided also is set forth. The paper concludes with some examples of results obtained on amplifiers which have been built employing this new principle."
"A brief description of cast iron and a comparison of the 2 processes used to produce it are given in this paper. The cost of cast iron produced either by the cupola or the electric furnace is the same. The electric furnace permits superheating and the production of iron of any composition with accurate control. On the other hand, the cupola is limited to the production of high carbon iron. As a result of the success of electric melting, the field of application of cast iron has been greatly increased."
"Steady state characteristics of synchronous machines of normal design are affected appreciably by changes in magnetic saturation. In this paper the effect of saturation is included in the derivation of the equations for determining steady state performance. It is shown that a saturated machine under steady state conditions, and for small changes from the original operating point, can be replaced for purposes of calculation by an unsaturated machine."
"The electric furnace of the rocking type with indirect arc has been developed to the point where it may be used not only for the melting of nonferrous metals but also in the production of castings of various types of iron and steel. Accurate control of the process is possible. Many new cast irons may thus be produced with qualities greatly superior to the cast iron which may be produced by any other means."
"Some of the more important technical problems involved in connecting rotating machines directly to overhead electric power transmission lines are discussed in this paper. Methods are developed for protecting the ground and turn insulations of the armatures of such machines which may be subjected to surge voltages. The ground insulation can be protected by lightning arresters; the turn insulation, by sloping off the incoming surge. Methods are given for determining the maximum allowable rate of rise of voltage at the machine terminals, and the apparatus needed to limit the rate of rise to that value."
"A SYMPOSIUM on switching power at modern large generating plants is included on the program of the Institute's forthcoming winter convention. Five papers, each describing the facilities at one such plant, are to be discussed. Three of these papers are included in this issue, the other 2 having been included in the December 1933 issue. The following article serves as an introduction to this symposium."
"A station having several unique features, including an outdoor oil-filled metal-clad 22-kv switchgear for main generator bus is referred to in this paper. The station forms an important link in a large and intricate transmission and distribution system. This paper is part of a symposium on electric power switching at modern large steam-electric generating plants."
"The essential features of the switching facilities at 13 kv and 66 kv at the Richmond generating station of the Philadelphia Electric Company are described in this paper. Operating experiences with such facilities are outlined and certain desirable improvements in future design are indicated. This paper is part of a symposium on electric power switching at modern large steam-electric plants."
"A description of the switching facilities at Essex station, adjacent to the Connors Creek generating plant of The Detroit (Mich.) Edison Company, is given this paper, which is part of a symposium on electric power switching at modern large steam-electric generating plants. Essex station, which has been in operation less than 2 years, has had an unusually good service record."
"With impulse voltage testing of electrical equipment becoming more widely used, it seems highly desirable to be able to calculate the circuit constants required to produce the desired test waves and to calculate the waves that any given circuit constants will give. In this paper the solution of the more commonly used impulse generator circuits is developed and summarized. Waves calculated by these formulas check closely the waves actually recorded by the cathode ray oscillograph."
"A portable Schering bridge which is applicable for power factor, dielectric loss, and capacitance tests on condenser bushings and other equipment of higher capacitance in the field is described in this paper, and operating procedure is given. Such tests are desirable for forestalling failures of equipment. Although earlier power factor tests on bushings have been made in the field, this is probably the first application of the Schering bridge to field tests."
"Improvements have been made in practically every part of pantograph trolleys used for current collection on electric railways. As a result of these many improvements the pantograph of most recent design fulfills its important function in a highly satisfactory manner. Designs now are available for collecting currents of any magnitude found on either a-c or d-c roads at any speed up to 100 mph."
"Satisfactory current collection on electric railways using pantograph trolleys depends on the ability of the pantograph to follow irregularities in the height of the contact wire at all operating speeds and within a limited range of pressures between the contact wire and the shoe. In this paper operating characteristics of pantograph collectors are outlined, and operating data for 3 typical pantographs are given."
"In language understandable by the average electrical engineer, this paper presents a brief outline of the theory of the electric induction furnace and of the application of that theory to the operating characteristics and limitations of such furnaces. From a metallurgical standpoint the chief advantages associated with the use of induction furnaces are: freedom from contamination of the melt, the high temperatures obtainable, and the circulation of the molten charge by the electromagnetic forces within it. The immediate acceptance by the industry of this comparatively new melting tool indicates that more extensive use of high frequency induced heat is to be expected in the future."
"By means of the automatic switching of potential connections to distance relays according to type of fault, each distance relay may be made to do the work of 2 or 3 such relays. The cost of distance relay installations may be reduced considerably by this automatic control of potential connections, and consequently their use should become more widespread."
"A communication system for the pickup and reproduction in auditory perspective of symphonic music must be designed properly with respect to the acoustics of the pickup auditorium and the concert hall involved. The reverberation times and sound distribution in the two auditoriums/the location of the microphones and loud speakers, and the response-frequency calibration of the system and its equalization are considered. These and other important factors entering into the problem are treated in this, the sixth and final paper of the symposium."
"A SCHEDULE of events which has been coördinated to provide a good balance between both business and social activities has been arranged for the winter convention of the A.I.E.E. to be held during the 4 days of January 23–26, 1934, in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. Eleven technical sessions to be held during the mornings and afternoons of the first 3 days will present some of the most recent developments in electrical engineering. In the evenings a smoker, the Edison Medal presentation, a demonstration of transmission and reproduction of music, and the dinner-dance will be held. Special entertainment also is being arranged by the ladies entertainment committee, and will include a luncheon-bridge. Friday, the last day of the convention, will be devoted entirely to inspection trips; in addition, arrangements have been made to visit points of interest at other times. Altogether, the convention, which begins on Tuesday and ends on Friday, will be crowded with activity. In addition to this program, there will be a meeting of the board of directors at Institute headquarters on Monday, January 22, at 2:15 p.m., the day preceding the opening of the convention."
"In accordance with action of the board of directors, in October 1933, a meeting of the executive committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., December 8, 1933, in place of the regular December meeting of the board of directors."
"A complete official ticket of candidates for the Institute offices that will become vacant August 1, 1934, was selected by the national nominating committee at its meeting held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., December 7, 1933. This committee, in accordance with the constitution and by-laws, consists of 15 members, one selected by the executive committee of each of the 10 Geographical Districts and the remaining 5 selected by the board of directors from its own membership."
"Under the thought-provoking title of “Help Yourselves!” the following editorial prepared by the Professional Engineers' Committee on Unemployment, serving the metropolitan area of New York, N. Y., was released by the P.E.C.U. to the engineering societies:"
"The committee on professional recognition, one of the 4 working committees of the newly organized Engineers' Council for Professional Development, has already actively undertaken its duties and has accomplished tangible results. These are summarized in the following article prepared by Conrad N. Lauer, chairman of the committee, and J. W. Barker, the representative of the A.I.E.E. upon this committee. This article was prepared for Electrical Engineering by Mr. Lauer and Dean Barker, at the request of L. A. Doggett (A'13, M'16), chairman of the Institute's committees on Student Branches and on education. The article by Mr. Lauer and Dean Barker follows:"
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following list of candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, during November are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface or text of the book in question."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Electrical properties of mercury vapor and monatomic gases are discussed from a theoretical standpoint in this article. In the first part of the article, the author discusses briefly the elementary processes of excitation and ionization of atoms upon which the electrical properties of gases depend. With this insight into the fundamental processes as a background, the author discusses in Part II the electrical conductivity of gases under various conditions. This is the eleventh in a series of special articles prepared under sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"Because of the scarcity of published records of lightning performance of 220-kv power transmission lines, the A.I.E.E. lightning and insulator subcommittee∗ has attempted to collect such data by means of a questionnaire sent to the various companies operating 220-kv lines in the United States and Canada. The data thus obtained is summarized in this paper."
"Developments in vapor conducting light sources made both in European and American practice are outlined in this paper. The various types of sodium and other vapor arc lamps are considered, together with the principal factors affecting their operation."
"The amplification obtainable in a vacuum tube amplifier is limited by the noise in the circuit. Of the various sources of noise the most fundamental and inevitable is thermal agitation of electricity. Other sources are the influence of ions and of shot effect and flicker effect on the current in vacuum tubes, poor contacts, mechanical vibration, and hum from a-c cathode heating. These noises and their effects in limiting amplification are discussed in this paper. Although the natural noise level of an amplifier is exceedingly low, modern amplifiers have reached such a stage of perfection that their noise levels often are practically at the natural limit."
"The high velocity streams of particles in the vacuum arc have been subjected to a detailed study, and the results are presented in this paper, together with a discussion of many of the phenomena involved. Experimental determinations of the relations between arc current, mass of condensed metal, pressure in the arc tank, force between electrodes, and velocity of the vapor stream are included. Results with several different electrode materials are presented."
"Gasoline and Diesel electric equipment used for motive power on rail cars and locomotives is considered in this paper. The more important problems such as the securing of a suitable method of drive for Diesel electric locomotives are considered, especially for heavy railway work. A comparison of Diesel electric with steam and with electric locomotives is given, and possible future developments are indicated."
"Losses in induction machines have been subjected to a detailed study by many investigators, but due to the complex nature of some of these losses, particularly several forms of load loss in induction motors, a clear understanding of their nature has not been available. Since the majority of such losses are connected with the magnetic flux in the machine, a study of the distribution of magnetic flux in the stator and rotor is necessary; such a study is presented herewith. The flux losses considered are divided into 2 groups, those occurring at the fundamental frequency, and those occurring at tooth frequency."
"A new high-resistance “thyrite” and a new 3-element cold-cathode tube having unusual characteristics constitute the basic elements in a new high voltage relay combination for relaying or detecting ground faults on ungrounded systems. This scheme of protection, as described herein, is characterized by its reliability, simplicity, sensitivity, and low cost. It has been found to be particularly valuable in network applications."
"A method of measuring the stress distribution in transmission line conductors caused by vibrations under actual service conditions, and the effect thereon of various attachments, is outlined in this paper. Measurements have been made of the attenuation of traveling waves in conductors, reflection factors of supports, ratio of the bending at a clamp to that in mid span, effect of vertical rigidity of the support, impact effect of traveling waves, stress division effected by a rocking clamp, and other items. Some records of aeolian vibrations are included which indicate a periodic recurrence of similar groups of waves at time intervals equal to the double-span time-interval of a traveling wave."
"Physical principles underlying the characteristics and performance of multielectrode vacuum tubes are presented in simple form in this paper. The subject is presented from the viewpoint of those having an understanding of the physical principles of the ordinary triode or 3-element tube, but not having a similarly clear understanding of the more complex structures. Detailed analyses of the characteristics of several types of multielectrode tubes are given."
"Studies of the dielectric properties of pure cellulose paper as related to its moisture content were reported in Part I of this paper, which was published in the October issue. In Part II, presented herewith, the variations in dielectric properties as related to temperature are discussed. These investigations not only throw additional light on the theoretical aspects of dielectric absorption, but also reveal information of practical importance to cable manufacturers."
"Vacuum tubes as oscillators and amplifiers at frequencies greater than 100 megacycles (3 m) are considered in this paper. The type of construction used in a large number of different tubes, and the characteristics of the tubes, are presented. Circuits for operating the tubes also are considered and the theory of operation and the factors limiting ultra-high frequencies are discussed. Principal attention is given to the tubes as oscillators, with brief consideration of the problem of amplification."
"A new type of motor in which a scheme involving electronic tubes is used to perform a function similar to that of a commutator is described in this paper. The motor operates at variable speed and is supplied from a 3-phase power system. A 400-hp motor of this type has been built and is ready for commercial use."
"On this and the following 17 pages appear discussions of papers presented at the 1934 A.I.E.E. summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 25–29, as follows: (1) one paper presented at the session on electrical machinery (closure); (2) one paper presented at the session on power generation; (3) all papers presented at the session on automatic stations; and (4) all papers presented at the session on insulators. All discussions on the foregoing papers (except that in item No. 1) received in complete and acceptable form at Institute headquarters, and subsequently reviewed and recommended for publication by A.I.E.E. technical committees, are included. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the ends of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Discussions of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on insulators of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 28, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by W. A. Smith and J. T. Lusignan, Jr., published in the June 1934 issue, p. 995–8, and presented for oral discussion at the insulator session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 28, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by K. A. Hawley published in the June 1934 issue, p. 895–8, and presented for oral discussion at the insulator session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 28, 1934."
"Discussion of an A.I.E.E. committee report published in the June 1934 issue, p. 882–6, and presented for oral discussion at the insulator session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 28, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by Philip Sporn, E. L. Peterson, and V. A. Mulford published in the June 1934 issue, p. 936–42, and presented for oral discussion at the insulator session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 28, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by G. I. Gilchrest published in the June 1934 issue, p. 899–902, and presented for oral discussion at the insulator session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 28, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by G. M. Barrow published in the June 1934 issue, p. 867–70, and presented for oral discussion at the insulator session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 28, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by G. W. Lapp published in the June 1934 issue, p. 922–5, and presented for oral discussion at the insulator session of the summer convention, Hot Springs, Va., June 28, 1934."
"Early in the present year Mr. E. B. Meyer, then chairman of the finance committee of the Institute, furnished to the membership in the columns of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (March 1934, p. 375–81) a presentation of facts and figures relating to the annual budget. While it has always been the practice to include in the annual report of the board of directors to the membership a detailed statement of financial operations for the corresponding fiscal year, it was felt that the exigency of the times warranted a more thorough explanation of some of the problems as they have been presented to the board of directors, together with a brief outline of the steps toward solution, as taken by the finance committee."
"To PAY fitting tribute to Ambrose Swasey of Cleveland, Ohio, upon the 20th anniversary of his creation of The Engineering foundation, and in celebration of his approaching (December) 88th birthday, some 67 engineers, industrial leaders, educators, and scientists assembled for dinner at the Union League Club, New York, N. Y., Thursday evening, October 18, 1934, with Mr. Swasey present as the guest of honor."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following list of candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Laytex, an Unusual Dielectric, Is Announced. Announcement has been made by the United States Rubber Company of a new type of electrical insulation, called Laytex, which possesses a number of unusual qualities. Its principal application so far has been as a covering for wires, and it is believed by the manufacturer that its superior properties will require in time that all existing codes and specifications on wire insulation will have to be rewritten. It is claimed that of all known flexible insulation, Laytex is the most flexible, has the highest tensile strength and resistance to compression, and has the highest dielectric strength and insulation resistance. Because of these qualities, it permits thinner but superior walls which in turn make possible finished conductors lighter in weight and smaller in bulk. In certain applications, a reduction of 25 per cent in the outside diameter, and 50 per cent in the weight of the conductor are effected."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"With a glorious record of tradition, accomplishment, and unique service to profession and to society; with no apparent causes for regrets; and with the promise of the future that lies in firmly planted ideals, the Institute may justly take for itself a happy celebration of its anniversary."
"Some highlights in the life of the A.I.E.E., its heritage, and the environment that has shaped its humble beginning and later tremendous growth, are outlined in this article by a past-president whose record of service to the Institute is surpassed by few, if any, other members. Far from being a mere chronological recital of events, this history contains personal reminiscences of many of the Institute's noted personalities and of their struggles and triumphs. Professor Scott says “the perusal of old-time records, the reading of past-presidential contributions of wide variety, personal reminiscing with old-timers and with others have awakened interesting recollections and have given me a new viewpoint and a perspective of various happenings; these now present a significance which one does not recognize when enmeshed in details.” Perhaps Professor Scott's contribution will do as much for other members of the Institute."
"How the Institute's organization has grown from its early modest beginning to meet the widely diversified needs of a rapidly expanding membership is reviewed briefly in this article. One cannot review the history of the Institute's organization “without being impressed with the flexibility it has shown in adapting itself to changing conditions, and we may be confident that this will continue… in the future.”"
"Of the 25 men who signed the original organization call, 21 were in the telegraph business, as were also the Institute's first 2 presidents, 2 of the initial vice-presidents, and 4 of the initial managers."
"An historical outline of the standardization activities of the AIEE is recorded in this article by a past-president who was chairman of the Institute's first standardization committee and who continuously since the appointment of that committee has been actively engaged not only in the standardization work of the Institute, but also in international standardization of electrical units."
"The Institute's standardizing committee, which has been in existence for 36 of the Institute's 50 years, was the first official group representing designers, manufacturers, and operators of electrical apparatus in a joint effort to arrive at mutual understandings. These cooperative efforts have been continued until today the Institute holds a major place in the formulation and approval of electrical standards in the United States and has an important rôle to play in international electrical standardization."
"A brief account of the early headquarters and meeting places of the A.I.E.E. is related here by a past-president who was a member of the original committee to solicit Mr. Carnegie's financial support for a new Institute building, and who acted as agent in the purchase of the Latimer Clark Library which was presented to the Institute in 1901 by Past-President Wheeler."
"Personal reminiscences of some major events in the life of the Institute by a past-president whose active participation in Institute affairs began 30 years ago and who, on the basis of that experience, ventures some criticisms and suggestions."
"Although now celebrating only the fiftieth anniversary of its founding, the Institute “has a record of accomplishment that would have done justice to a life of 100 years.”"
"Members of the Institute always have been interested primarily in those parts of electrical science that concern the motion of electricity in conductors. Although Kirchhoff and Maxwell formulated the equations of electrical propagation more than 30 years before the founding of the A.I.E.E., it remained for the period coinciding with the life of the Institute for the full meaning of their theoretical achievements to be demonstrated. It seems particularly appropriate, therefore, that on the Institute's 50th anniversary these achievements should be reviewed by one who has had such a large part in applying them and in extending them to long distance telephonic transmission."
"Some personal reminiscences of experiences in the electrical industry are recorded in this article by “the father of electric traction” who has dug in “the mines of the motors” for 3 score years. From his courageous pioneering efforts great systems of electrical transportation have grown. It is entirely fitting that these experiences, which are so interwoven in the history of the electrical engineering profession, be recorded on the occasion of the Institute's 50th anniversary by a past-president whose entrance into the profession antedates the Institute by a decade."
"An episode of early commercial competition within the electrical industry by a past-president of the Institute who was an “eye witness” to the controversy."
"A brief account of some significant events in the history of electric power transmission related by a past-president of the Institute whose name is closely linked with many of those events and who for many years has been actively engaged in the study of high voltage phenomena."
"Although energy derived from water has been utilized by man for at least 3,000 years, its greatest development has come within the lifetime of the Institute and after the first hydroelectric “central station” was constructed at Appleton, Wis., in 1882 — a “250-light” installation. Since that time the utilization of water power for the generation of electricity has expanded until now the aggregate installed capacity of hydroelectric plants in the United States is more than 15,000,000 hp. Some significant events in this development are outlined briefly in this article."
"Although almost microscopic as compared with modern electric generators, the 5,000-hp generators installed at Niagara Falls in 1895 had a capacity of about 4 times that of the largest generator previously built. Some of the early operating experiences at Niagara are related here by a past-president of the Institute who was the first operating superintendent and who was in charge of the construction and operation of the original Buffalo-Niagara 11,000-volt 3-phase transmission line."
"Some outstanding individual contributions of the past 50 years to the electrical industry are reviewed here by a past-president who himself has made no small contribution; he says… “as we of the electrical fraternity hope for continued progress, we must remember that our hopes can be fully realized only by remaining true to the greatest of our traditions, ‘to produce and to serve.’”"
"Since the Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893 gave to the world its first large outdoor display, electric illumination has played a vital and striking part in the great expositions. At San Francisco in 1915 the illumination was classed by the International Jury of Award as a “Decorative Art” at Chicago in 1933 the lighting was conceded to be an outstanding feature of the exposition in spite of the fact that it was almost an afterthought. In this short article the author gives a general description of the exterior lighting effects; illustrates some of the equipment used and the results obtained."
"Pointing out that when the A.I.E.E. was founded in 1884 telegraphy was 40 years old and telephony 8 years old, the author traces briefly the significant developments and tremendous growth of electrical communication and the significance and importance of the parallel growth of the Institute. “Both grew out of the extension of our knowledge of certain laws of nature, and both were encouraged in their growth by the social and economic results that were possible from the application of electricity.” The record of 50 years of communication development is traced through a half century of Institute publications."
"These personal reminiscences by a widely recognized leader in the electrical engineering profession touch upon some of the significant developments in early electrical equipment, and reflect many of the colorful personalities involved. This manuscript is based upon the record of a recent interview by Prof. D. C. Jackson."
"Many colorful personal reminiscences of the exhibit and personalities involved in the 1884 International Electrical Exhibition and related “Conference of Electricians” are given here by Professor Jackson. With this background as an indication of the state of electrical engineering education in 1884, the author outlines its rapid development, emphasizes the strength imparted to it through its early and continued close association with the fundamental sciences, and, looking to the future, sounds something of a challenge to the modern era and modern attitude."
"The Institute, founded at the beginning of a “new deal,” now celebrates its 50th anniversary in the midst of another new deal. What of the engineer's part in today's new deal? He must go ahead as enthusiastically as ever with the creation of labor-saving devices and thus with the creation of leisure — not loafing, but a leisure to be filled by satisfying activities."
"Crediting the extent and magnitude of the technical advancement of the past half-century to engineering as the motivating force in the application of the scientific knowledge developed through the powerful facilities of the organized and coordinated research that has been developed during the latter part of the half-century just closing, Doctor Jewett believes that from the present point of view there is no reason to expect results any less striking during the next 50 years."
"THE TRUTH of the often-repeated statement that the history of any organization can be traced in the lives of its leaders, is borne out by the records of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. The names of the leaders of the A.I.E.E. comprise an imposing list, one which any organization would be proud to claim."
"Biographical sketches of Honorary Members of the Institute and the recipients of its medals are given on the following pages, excepting only those Honorary Members and medalists who also served terms as presidents of the Institute. Biographical sketches of this latter group have been given on the preceding 23 pages."
"WE LEARN that a movement has been inaugurated for the formation of a national electrical society, and that several distinguished men connected with the science and with electrical enterprises have promised it their warmest support. The idea is admirable, and cannot but succeed. It is said that details will shortly be made public. This simple statement, presaging the founding of the Institute, appeared in the Electrical World for March 29, 1884."
"ALTHOUGH the American Institute of Electrical Engineers often is referred to by some of its most ardent supporters as an “organization of young men” and correctly so on the basis of membership a alysis, here is a list of members that have been on the Institute's rolls for a total of some 35 to 50 years each, with an average tenure of membership for the 317 of them amounting to more than 40 years! Although the bulk of the burden of leadership and development may fall upon the younger members, the wealth of experience represented in the professional careers of these and other long-time members of the Institute is one of the Institute's greatest assets."
"Presents a listing of groups and organizations on which the Institute is represented by year."
"This chart illustrates the growth of Institute activities as reflected by the number and diversity of committees. Only those committees acting for 2 years or more are shown. In every case the title is that by which it was last known, although it may have developed from another committee of different name but similar purpose. The committees are designated as General, Technical, or Special by the letter in the first column following the title. Committees once known as \"Standing\" are classed as General, as are those of the earlier years when no differentiation was made. The records of committee activities preceding 1887 are not complete."
"A CUMULATIVE listing of the chairmen of the Institute's general, technical, and special committees is given in the pages immediately following. These committees correspond with those shown in the charts on the preceding page. In the following listing, the dates of organization of the committees are given, together with the names and terms of service of all chairmen of these committees."
"A LIST of the 61 Sections of the Institute, together with the date of authorization of the Section, and the names and terms of service of all chairmen of these Sections are given below."
"Liusts the ten women (and their job information) who were members of the AIEE as of the date of publication of this issue."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"QRIOR to the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia in 1876, the use of electricity had been practically limited to electroplating and to various forms of signaling, of w ich the telegraph was the most important. Only 8 years later, in 1884, the prospects of very rapid further developments, especially in electric lighting and electric railways, were such that the leaders “recognized the necessity of a society which should foster and encourage electrical applications in every useful art.”"
"The First Institute committee to have I anything to do with standardization came into being in 1889 “to formulate and submit for approval a standard wiring table.” It was not, however, until 1898 that the first standardization committee, dealing with standards for electrical machinery and apparatus, was appointed. This committee decided to devote its efforts to the standards of performance, leaving matters of construction, dimensions, and design to the manufacturer. The wisdom of that early established policy is proved by the fact that almost without exception it has been adhered to with unqualified success down to the present day."
"The Annual summer convention this year marks the fiftieth meeting of its kind in the history of the Institute. On this occasion and in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Institute's organization, the committee has arranged for special addresses by Dr. W. E. Wickenden and Dr. William McClellan on educational and professional aspects of interest to electrical engineers, which will be given at the opening meeting. The committee also is using every endeavor to have present all officers of the Institute, all living past-presidents, and all living charter members, as well as a goodly representation of engineers from all sections. The convention will be held at Hot Springs, Va., June 25–29, 1934, with headquarters in The Homestead. Make your plans now to attend the fiftieth anniversary reunion of electrical engineers in this most attractive setting."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following list of candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The keynote behind the success of the Institute is the spirit of mutual helpfulness to other members and of disinterested service to humanity. That such a spirit motivates the large number of individuals who cooperate actively in the affairs of the Institute is brought out in the following discussion by President-Elect J. Allen Johnson. To the many members of the Institute who are not intimately familiar with its “workings” this article should be interesting and helpful."
"Resonant transmission lines may be used as circuit elements in the ultra-short wave range as a means of obtaining high impedance with low loss. The lines may be of either concentric tubes or 2 wires, and are sufficiently small that they may be placed within the apparatus. These circuits can be made highly selective, and when used to control oscillator frequency will give stability comparable to that of a crystal. The mathematical relations governing their operation and several applications are discussed in this paper."
"Edison's observation of the discharge of negative electricity from the carbon filament of an incandescent lamp to an auxiliary electrode in the bulb, commonly known as the “Edison effect,” remained unexplained until the beginning of the 20th century. Since that time, an entire new industry — radio — has grown up as a result of continued research in the emission of electrons from hot cathodes. This article, seventh of a series prepared under the sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, reviews some of the more important observations and conclusions obtained from investigations in this field."
"Although much is yet unknown about the many factors concerned in insulator arcover, humidity tests presented here lead to a theory of arcover. The geometrical design of the insulator is shown to be a minor factor at power frequencies, but of importance for withstanding impulse voltages."
"A glow discharge at atmospheric pressure is responsive to air velocity, and may be used as an anemometer. The properties of such a glow are discussed in this paper, and data relating to glow current, voltage, glow length, and air velocity are presented. It is also shown that the glow discharge responds to rapid fluctuations in air velocity and is therefore a practical device for investigating turbulence. A comparison of such an anemometer with the previously used hot wire method is given."
"The behavior of distance relays during system oscillations is analyzed in this paper, and curves are presented for determining whether the oscillations are likely to cause relay operation. Different types of distance relays are considered and general methods of analyzing system conditions are discussed."
"An investigation of factors influencing the reignition potential of an alternating current arc at low pressure is reported in this paper. The investigation was undertaken to determine if such data could throw more light on the transition from a glow discharge to an arc. The results are consistent with a theory proposed previously by one of the authors."
"A general outline of the status of modern hydroelectric developments is presented in this report by an A.I.E.E. subcommittee,∗ continued from the June issue."
"The board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its fiftieth annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1934. A general balance sheet showing the condition of the Institute's finances on April 30, 1934, together with other detailed financial statements, is included herein. This report contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING."
"In the expulsion type of oil circuit breaker the arc occurring on circuit interruption is “expelled” from the contact chamber by a high velocity gas blast. Breakers of this type have demonstrated their capability of consistently interrupting short circuits on a typical large electric power system within 1 or 2 cycles of arc. In this paper the theory of this type of breaker is presented and its performance is analyzed."
"Tests have been conducted on an experimental transmission line equipped with a counterpoise for reducing the tower footing surge impedance so as to give added protection against lightning. The results of these tests are presented herewith, and should prove valuable to engineers engaged in the design and operation of transmission lines. The desirability of further tests made under a variety of conditions is indicated."
"Field tests on transmission conductor vibration as affected by dampers and suspension clamps have been made in an attempt to find a solution to the important problem of stopping such vibration in an economical manner. This paper presents some data in regard to number and spacing of the “Stockbridge” type damper. The question of whether vibration is transmitted through or stopped by various types of suspension clamps also is discussed, and actual records of frequencies on both sides of suspension clamps shown."
"THE PACIFIC COAST convention this year will be held September 3–7, 1934, in Salt Lake City, Utah, which offers to many members unusual possibilities to combine a few vacation days with the convention trip. Yellowstone National Park is but a night's ride by rail from Salt Lake City. Within the boundaries of Utah and in Northern Arizona there are located such scenic wonders as the Grand Canyon, Zion, and Bryce Canyons. For those who are interested in the wonders of engineering as well as the wonders of western scenery there is a possibility of combining a trip to Boulder Dam(now at its most interesting construction stage) with the convention trip through the Utah parks. In addition the committee has arranged the schedule of technical sessions during the mornings, except on the opening day, so as to leave the afternoons free to enjoy sightseeing trips, inspection tours, or recreation in the form of golf or bathing at some one of the many delightful recreational centers within an hour's ride of Salt Lake City Convention headquarters will be in the Hotel Utah."
"AN ADDRESS on “Human Engineering Problems” was prepared by Dr. Michaeli. Pupin (A'90, F'15, HM'28, member for life, and past-president) to bedelivered on April 26, 1934, at a general meeting of the Institute's New York Section, in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York. Doctor Pupin's talk was scheduled as an importantpart of this meeting, which was also a commemoration by the New York Section, of the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Institute."
"THE SEVENTH annual conference of student Branches of the A.I.E.E. inthe North Central District (No. 6) was held at the South Dakota State School of Mines, Rapid City, S. Dak., April 13–14, 1934. This conference wasa very successful one as indicated by both the number in attendance and the lively interest taken in all the sessions. It was a continuation of successful student conferences which have been held by this District."
"To the Editor: We have been reading with considerable interest the Jubilee Number of the official monthly journal and transactions of the A.I.E.E., dated May 1934. In the biographical section we were particularly interested in the notes regarding Professors Elihu Thomson and E. J. Houston."
"K. S. Wyatt (A'32) research engineer, Detroit Edison Co., Detroit, Mich., with his co-authors E. W. SPRING (A'26, M'32) and C. H. Fellows, has been awarded the 1933 A.I.E.E. national prize for initial paper for the contribution “A New Method of Investigating Cable Deterioration and Its Application to Service Aged Cable.” Mr. Wyatt was born in Cambridge, Mass., in 1900. He first studied engineering at Mount Allison University, Sackville, New Brunswick. After completing the unified 2-year course, he majored in physical chemistry, obtaining the degree of B.A. in 1921 and the degree of B. Sc. with honors in chemistry in 1922, and was an instructor in physics in 1921. After a year of graduate work in physical chemistry at Harvard University he joined the Carborundum Company, Niagara Falls, N. Y., as assistant research chemist. In thefall of 1923 he accepted a scholarship from the National Research Councilof Canada, and attended the University of Toronto, where he was engaged in research on “Supersaturation of Gases in Liquids.” Mr. Wyatt joined the research department of the Detroit Edison Company in 1928, and has specialized in the study of the deterioration of high voltage insulation. Mr. Wyatt is a member of the Edison medal committee of the Institute, and is also a member of the American Chemical Society; he has prepared several papers for technical publications."
"Paul Sussan (A'24) designer and draftsman for the New York Edison Company, died on April 17, 1934, in New York, N. Y. He was born in Riga, Latvia, April 8, 1880, and attended the Realgymnasium, Mitau, Russia, the University of Bern, Switzerland, and the Polytechnicum Cothen, Germany, receiving the electrical engineering degree from the last named in 1903. Hewas assistant engineer in industrial installation work for Fischer and Company of Berlin from 1903 to 1904. From 1905 to 1917 he was engaged in designing of electrical apparatus for the General Electric Company at the Schenectady and Pittsfield works. From 1917 to 1920 he was employed by the Interborough Rapid Transit Company of New York City as draftsman, checker, and squad leader. From 1920 on he worked for the New York Edison company, preparing drawings and wiring diagrams for power houses and substations. In 1924 he was graduated from the Columbia University School of Optometry with the degree of doctor of optometry, and he practiced optometry for some years."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary before July 31, 1934, or Sept. 31, 1934, if the applicant resides outside ofthe United States or Canada."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Large Steel Mill Order to Westinghouse. Amounting to nearly a million dollars, the largest single order for steel mill electrical equipment since 1929 was awarded to the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Company by the Mesta Machine Company. The electrical equipment, consisting ofmotors, control material, motor-generator sets, and auxiliary units, willbe installed on a 76 inch strip mill being built by Mesta for the Youngstown Sheet & Tube Company. Wide strip steel, produced in the new mill, is used for automobiles but has a variety of other us s. Included in the order will be six 3,500 horsepower motors. Work on the order has begun in East Pittsburgh and it will be completed in less than six months."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"This paper describes and explains the theory of the feedback principle and then demonstrates how stability of amplification and reduction of modulation products, as well as certain other advantages, follow when stabilized feedback is applied to an amplifier. The underlying principle of design by means of which singing is avoided is next set forth. The paper concludes with some examples of results obtained on amplifiers which have been built employing this new principle."
"The tendency of communication circuits to crosstalk from one to another was grea tly increased by the advent of telephone repeaters and carrier current methods. Telephone repeaters multiplied circuit lengths many times, increased the power applied to th e wires, and at the same time made the circuits much more efficient in transmitting crosstalk currents as well as the wanted currents. Carrier current methods added higher ranges of frequency with consequently increased crosstalk coupling. Program transmission service added to the difficulties since circuits for transmitting programs to broadcasting stations must accommodate frequency and volume ranges greater than those required for message telephone circuits."
"Vacuum tube electronics are analyzed when the time of flight of the electrons is taken into account. The analysis starts with a known current, which in general consists of direct-current value plus a number of alternating-current components. The velocities of the electrons are associated with corresponding current components, and from these velocities the potential differences are computed, so that the final result may be expressed in the form of an impedance."
"In this Second Part the major subject is Transmutation: that is to say, the alteration or disintegration of a nucleus, the unique and distinctive part of any atom, by impacts of fast-moving corpuscles. For the last year and a half the pace of progress in this field has been increasingly rapid, and in all likelihood is destined to become yet swifter. This is partly because of the discovery — a discovery due largely to theoretical foresight — that transmutation of some elements is practicable with protons of a relatively modest energy which can be produced in laboratories without any serious difficulty. Partly it is due to the discovery of neutrons and of deutons, particles which apparently possess remarkable ability in effecting certain kinds of transmutation. Partly also it is due to advances and refinements in the methods of working with alpha-particles, the first variety of corpuscle with which disintegration of nuclei was ever achieved. People are already beginning to speak of “nuclear chemistry” as a special branch of science, and this is already almost justified by the number of cases known in which two nuclei interact and produce two others which are recognizable."
"Attenuation of Ouerland Radio Transmission in the Frequency Range 1.5 10 3.5 Megacycles per Second.1 C. N. Anderson. Data on the effect of land upon radio transmission have been obta ined during the past few years in connection with various sit e surveys. These data are for the general frequency range 1.5 to 3.5 megacycles per second and for various combinations of over-water and overland transmission as well as entirely overland. The generalizations in this paper are chiefly in the form of curves which enable one to make approximations of field strengths to be expected under the conditions noted above. The relation of these data to transmission in the broadcast frequency range is shown, and from the overall picture, curves are developed which enable field strength estimates to be made for overland transmission in the extended frequency range."
"A great variety of speculations in regard to the physics of microphonic action has arisen because of the complexity of behavior when current passes through a so-called “loose contact” which forms the essential element in a carbon microphone. Technical difficulties arising from the minuteness of the contact forces and movements between contacts when in a sensitive microphonic state have retarded the establishment of a quantitative theory. Recent studies of carbon contacts have led to a satisfactory picture of the nature of such contacts and their mode of operation when strained, both from the elastic and the electrical point of view. The surfaces of the carbon particles are microscopically rough and when two such surfaces are brought together under the action of compressional forces, both the number of hills in intimate contact and the contact area between hills vary through deformations which are primarily elastic. Changes in electrical resistance under strain are consistent with the assumption that current passes through the regions in intimate contact."
"If the cross-sectional dimensions of an open-wire line were exactly the same at all points and if the transpositions were located at exactly the theoretical points, the crosstalk could be reduced by huge ratios by choosing a suitable transposition arrangement and interval between the transposition poles."
"The fundamental requirements involved in a system capable of picking up orchestral music, transmitting it a long distance, and reproducing it in a large hall, are discussed in this paper."
"In considering the physical factors affecting it, auditory perspective is defined in this paper as being reproduction which preserves the spatial relationships of the original sounds. Ideally, this would require an infinite number of separate microphone-to-speaker channels; practically, it is shown that good auditory perspective can be obtained with only 2 or 3 channels."
"In ordinary radio broadcast of symphony music, the effort is to create the effect of taking the listener to the scene of the program, whereas in reproducing such music in a large hall before a large gathering the effect required is that of transporting the distant orchestra to the listeners. Lacking the visual diversion of watching the orchestra play, such an audience centers its interest more acutely in the music itself, thus requiring a high degree of perfection in the reproducing apparatus both as to quality and as to the illusion of localization of the various instruments. Principles of design of the loud speakers and microphones used in the Philadelphia-Washington experiment are treated at length in this paper."
"Appreciable care is required in the design of a system which must amplify with great fidelity practically the whole range of audible frequencies and be capable of delivering a high level while at the same time providing a wide volume range. Some of the problems involved are discussed, particularly as applying to the equipment used in the reproduction in Washington, D. C., of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra playing in Philadelphia."
"Describing methods whereby high quality sound reproduction in auditory perspective can be accomplished over long distances, this discussion centers largely upon a description of the exact technique employed in providing communication transmission circuits for the Philadelphia-Washington demonstration. Problems that might be involved in carrying out such transmission on a more widespread scale also are touched upon."
"A communication system for the pick-up and reproduction in auditory perspective of symphonic music must be designed properly with respect to the acoustics of the pick-up auditorium and the concert hall involved. The reverberation times and sound distribution in the two auditoriums, the location of the microphones and loud speakers, and the response-frequency calibration of the system and its equalization are considered. These and other important factors entering into the problem are treated in this paper."
"Effects of Rectifiers on System Wave Shape.1 P. W. BLYE and H. E. KENT. Operation of mercury arc rectifiers generally results in increased harmonic currents in the rectifier supply circuits and may result in increased harmonic voltages. While these harmonics usually are not serious from the stand point of the power system, they may result in interference to communication circuits exposed to the power circuits. This paper presents a method of computing these harmonic voltages and currents, and discusses methods of coordinating telephone systems and a-c. power systems supplying rectifiers."
"The relations between input voltage and output current of the three-electrode vaccum tube are discussed when arbitrary feedback is present between grid and plate circuits. Fundamental assumptions are that the amplification factor is constant and conductive grid current absent. The relations developed in the present paper are generalizations of those given by J. R. Carson in I. R. E. Proc. of 1919, page 187. The use of the theory is illustrated by application to a simple modulator circuit. The numerical calculations in this case indicate that neglecting the effects of interelectrode tube capacitances may introduce serious errors."
"A form of circuit which is of considerable interest for the transmission of high frequency currents is one consisting of a cylindrical conducting tube within which a smaller conductor is coaxially placed. Such tubes have found application in radio stations to connect transmitting and receiving apparatus to antennæ. As a part of the development work on such coaxial systems, it has been necessary to formulate the theory of transmission over a coaxial circuit and of the shielding against inductive effects which is afforded by the outer conductor. This paper deals generally with the transmission theory of coaxial circuits and extends the theory beyond the range of present application both as regards structure and frequency."
"This article deals first with the newer knowledge of alpha-particle emission: that common and striking form of radioactivity, in which massive atom-nuclei disintegrate of themselves, emitting helium nuclei (alpha-particles) and also corpuscles of energy in the form of gamma-rays or high-frequency light. There follows a description of the contemporary picture of the atom-nucleus, in which this appears as a very small region of space containing various charged particles, surrounded by a potential-barrier; and the charged particles within, or those approaching from without, are by the doctrine of quantum mechanics sometimes capable of traversing the barrier even when they do not have sufficient energy to surmount it. The exponential law of radioactivity — to wit, the fact that the choice between disintegration and survival, for any nucleus at any moment, seems to be altogether a matter of pure chance — then appears not as a singularity of nuclei, but as a manifestation of the general principle of quantum mechanics: the principle that the underlying laws of nature are laws of probability. Moreover it is evident that transmutation of nuclei by impinging charged particles, instead of beginning suddenly at a high critical value of the energy of these particles, should increase very gradually and smoothly with increasing energy, and might be observed with energy-values so low as to be incomprehensible otherwise; and this agrees with experience."
"The microphonic response of different types of vacuum tubes to the same mechanical agitation covers a 70 db range of levels. Tubes of the same type, on the average, cover a range of about 30 db. These response levels are too sensitive to minute variations in testing conditions to be measurable with any great precision, but values which are reproducible to within 5 db are obtainable with a laboratory test set comprising a vibrating hammer agitator, a calibrated amplifier, and a thermocouple galvanometer indicator. Sputter noise is made measurable by frequency discrimination methods. Minimum microphonic disturbance under given service conditions is attained by using the less microphonic types of tubes which are available, by selecting the quieter tubes of a given type for use in positions sensitive to mechanical disturbance, and by protecting the tubes from mechanical and acoustic vibration. Examples of quiet triodes are the Western Electric No. 264B (filament) and No. 262A (indirectly heated cathode). Indirectly heated cathode type tubes are intrinsically less microphonic than filamentary types. Further microphonic improvement in the tubes themselves is made difficult by requirements for favorable electrical characteristics. Well designed cushion sockets can reduce microphonic levels by as much as 30 db, and other methods of cushioning, more expensive and less compact, can extend the reduction even farther. Sputter noise can be eliminated almost entirely in most types of tubes by commonly applied design features and manufacturing methods."
"The fluctuation noises originating in vacuum tubes are treated theoretically under the following headings: (1) thermal agitation in the internal plate resistance of the tube, (2) shot effect and flicker effect from space current in the presence of space charge, (3) shot effect from electrons produced by collission ionization and secondary emission, and (4) space charge fluctuations due to positive ions. It is shown that thermal agitation in the plate circuit is the most important factor and should fix the noise level in low noise vacuum tubes; shot noise and flicker noise are very small in tubes where complete temperature saturation is approached; shot noise from secondary electrons is negligible under ordinary conditions; and noise from space charge fluctuation due to positive ions is usually responsible for the difference between thermal noise in the plate circuit and total tube noise. A method is deduced for the accurate rating of the noise level of tubes in terms of the input resistance which produces the equivalent thermal noise. Quantitative noise measurements by this method are reported on four different types of vacuum tubes which are suitable for use in the initial stage of high gain amplifiers. Under proper operating conditions the noise of these tubes approaches that of thermal agitation in their plate circuits at the higher frequencies and is 0.54 to 2.18 × 10−14 mean square volts per cycle band width in the frequency range from 200 to 15,000 cycles per second. Below 200 cycles per second the noise is somewhat larger. The minimum noise in different types of vacuum tube circuits is discussed. These include input circuits for high gain amplifiers, ionization chamber and linear amplifier for detecting corpuscular or electromagnetic radiation, and photoelectric cell and linear amplifier for measuring light signals. With the aid of these results it is possible to design circuits having the maximum signal-to-noise ratio obtainable with the best vacuum tubes now available."
"In this paper systems are described whereby frequency band widths of the order of 1000 kc. or more may be transmitted for long distances over coaxial lines and utilized for purposes of multiplex telephony or television. A coaxial line is a metal tube surrounding a central conductor and separated from it by insulating supports."
"A comprehensive criterion for the stability of linear feed-back circuits has recently been formulated by H. Nyquist, in terms of the transfer factor around the feed-back loop. The importance of any such general criterion lends interest to an experimental verification, with which the paper is primarily concerned. The subject is dealt with under five principal headings. The first section reviews some of the criteria for oscillation to be found in the literature of vacuum tube oscillators. The second describes the derivation of Nyquist's criterion somewhat along the lines followed by Routh in one of his investigations of the stability of dynamical systems. The third part deals with two experimental methods used in measuring the transfer factor. The fourth is concerned with the particular amplifier circuit used in the test of Nyquist's criterion. The last section applies the criterion to a nonlinear case, and to circuits including two-terminal negative impedance elements."
"Shared Channel Broadcasting.1 C. B. AIKEN. This paper deals with the experimental studies made on the character and causes of interference noticeable in shared channel broadcasting, such as heterodyning, flutter, sideband interference and wobbling. Valuable data are included on the characteristics of square-law and linear detectors anent to interference."
"One of the important conditions which must be met by any speech transmission system is that it should transmit properly a sufficient range of speech intensities. In long-wave radio telephony, even after the speech waves are raised to the maximum intensity before transmission, there remain energy variations such that weak syllables and important parts of strong syllables may be submerged under heavy static. The compandor is an automatic device which compresses the range of useful signal energy variations at the transmitting end and expands the range to normal at the receiving end, thus improving the speech-to-noise ratio."
"The interference which occurs in shared channel broadcasting consists of several components of different types. Of these the program interference is usually the most important in the absence of a noise background, while if a strong noise background is present another component, which may be called flutter interference, predominates."
"Radio programs are regularly transmitted between broadcasting stations over wire line facilities furnished by the Bell System. Both cable and open wire facilities are employed for this service. Recently a new program transmission system for use on open wire lines has been developed which has highly satisfactory characteristics. A description of this open wire system and test results obtained with it are given in this paper."
"Open wire circuits recently have been developed for transmitting radio broadcast programs with greater naturalness and over greater distances than heretofore.1 The simultaneous utilization of these circuits for the transmission of broadcast programs and carrier telephone messages requires the use of line filters to restrict the program and carrier currents to the proper circuits. The low pass line filter developed for the program circuits and its contribution to the maintenance of good quality in the programs transmitted are described in this paper."
"Transmutation, the major subject of the Second Part of this sequence on the nucleus, assumes again a leading role in the present article. Remarkable cases have been discovered since the first of the year, including a great number in which the impact of one nucleus upon another (or of a neutron on a nucleus) provokes an instantaneous transmutation which is followed after seconds, minutes or hours by the spontaneous breaking-apart of one of the resultant nuclei. One may say that these last are the nuclei of new kinds of radioactive elements, and the phenomena are often called “induced radioactivity” but many of these new unstable elements differ from all radioactive bodies hitherto known in that they emit positive electrons. Some additional examples of transmutation are described at the end of this article."
"This paper discusses the use of piezoelectric crystals as elements in wave filters and shows that very sharp selectivities can be obtained by employing such elements. It is shown that by employing crystals and condensers only, very narrow band filters result. By using coils and transformers in conjuction with crystals and condensers, wide-band-pass and high and low-pass filters can be constructed having very sharp selectivities. The circuit configurations employed are such that the coil dissipation has only the effect of adding a constant loss to the filter characteristic, this loss being independent of the frequency. Experimental curves are given showing the degree of selection possible."
"The characteristics of the Y-cut quartz crystal plate are discussed. It is shown that by rotating a plate about the X axis special orientations are found for which the frequency spectrum is simplified, the temperature coefficient of frequency is reduced practically to zero and the amount of power that can be controlled without fracture of the crystal is increased. These improvements are obtained without sacrificing the advantages of the Y cut plate, i.e., activity and the possibility of rigid clamping in the holder."
"By the use of a two-dimensional Fourier analysis of the transmitted picture a theory of scanning is developed and the scanning system related to the signal used for the transmission. On the basis of this theory a number of conclusions can be drawn: 1. The result of the complete process of transmission may be divided into two parts, (a) a reproduction of the original picture with a blurring similar to that caused in general by an optical system of only finite perfection, and (b) the superposition on it of an extraneous pattern not present in the original, but which is a function of both the original and the scanning system. 2. Roughly half the frequency range occupied by the transmitted signal is idle. Its frequency spectrum consists of alternating strong bands and regions of weak energy. In the latter the signal energy reproducing the original is at its weakest, and gives rise to the strongest part of the extraneous pattern. In a television system these idle regions are several hundred to several thousand cycles wide and have actually been used experimentally as the transmission path for independent signaling channels, without any visible effect on the received picture. 3. With respect to the blurring of the original all reasonable shapes of aperture give about the same result when of equivalent size. The sizes (along a given dimension) are determined as equivalent when the apertures have the same radius of gyration (about a perpendicular axis in the plane of the aperture). 4. With respect to extraneous patterns certain shapes of aperture are better than others, but all apertures can be made to suppress them at the expense of blurring. An aperture arrangement is presented which almost completely eliminates extraneous pattern while about doubling the blurring across the direction of scanning as compared with the usual square aperture. From this and other examples the degradation caused by the extraneous patterns is estimated."
"The Thermionic Work Function and the Slope and Intercept of Richardson Plots.1 J. A. BECKER and W. H. BRATTAIN. This article is a critical correlation of the slope and intercept of experimental Richardson lines with th e quantities appearing in theoretical equations based on thermodynamic and statistical reasoning. The equation for experimental Richardson lines is log i − 2 log T = log A − b/2.1 T; A and b are constants characteristic of the surface, i is the electron emission current in amp./cm.2, T is the temperature in degrees K, log A is the intercept and − b/2.3 is the slope of experimental lines. Statistical theory based on the Fermi-Dirac distribution of elect ron velocities in the metal shows that i should be given by log i − 2 log T = log U(1 − r) − w/2.3 T, where U is a universal constant which has the value 120 amp./cm.2 °K2, r is the reflection coefficient, and w is the work junction, A correlation of the experimental and theoretical equations shows that b = w − Tdw/dt, and log A = log U(1 − r) − (1/2.3)dw/dT. Only when r is 0 and the work function is independent of the temperature, is it correct to say that the slope is −w/2.3 an d that the intercept has the universal value log U. But even when w is a function of T, it follows from a thermodynamicm argument that the slope is given by − h/2.3, where the heat function h is de fined by h = (Lp/R) − (5/2) T, LP; is the heat of vaporization permol at constant pressure. The heat function is related to the work function by the equation h = w − Tdw/dT."
"Since the last report, this Committee has concentrated its efforts on the preparation of data for a new issue of the Standards Booklet. Much new material has been included, and some of the data contained in the old booklet have been rearranged and amplified. The material for the new booklet will be published in an early issue of the JOURNAL, and will contain data on cutting and perforating dimensions of raw stock with tolerances, for 35- and 16-mm. sizes. Charts showing dimensions and location of camera and projector apertures, and sound track location for 35-mm. and 16-mm. sound film will be included. The standard 35-mm. sprocket specifications have been revised."
"In a communication addressed to the Chairman of the Committee by President Goldsmith, about the middle of March, the Committee was asked “…to formulate standards of sound recording and reproduction (audio-frequency characteristics) of such a type that the producing studios and the theater circuits can all agree to accept them at a reasonably early date after the standards shall have been agreed upon. The present state of sound recording and reproducing indicates that the matter is definitely urgent. There is an unnecessary amount of deviation in releases from the various studios, and it is obvious that the full advaniages of improved methods of reproduction can not be realized under the present conditions. Such standardization is the most important problem facing the Committee.”"
"A general survey of the many uses of films, both 35-mm. and 16-mm., as applied to non-theatrical purposes, has been begun by the Committee. There seems to be no question but that this field is growing in importance at a rapid rate, and bids fair to approach the theatrical field in importance, if not eventually in film footage used. The historical situation with reference to non-theatrical films may be of some interest. For more than a decade, individuals and organizations making use of motion pictures for non-theatrical purposes have urged theatrical film producers to provide pictures especially made for non-theatrical showing. To these urgings, the theatrical industry has made practically no response, but has maintained the general attitude that such production was the legitimate function of the theatrical producing companies, and would be taken up at some later date. In addition, the theatrical industry has generally been reluctant to permit a wide non-theatrical use of pictures originally made for theatrical exhibition. As a result, the supply of non-theatrical films and the ready availability of up-to-date theatrical films for non-theatrical purposes have been greatly limited."
"The Dufaycolor three-color additive system of color cinematography, employing a geometrical color-screen or réseau imprinted on the film base, is briefly described. As many as a million color elements per square inch are employed, and a correct color balance is achieved by adjusting the area covered by the blue dye in relation to that covered by the two other primary colors. No appreciable changes of equipment are required in applying the system commercially, either in photographing, processing, or projecting, from what is now found in use."
"A detailed description is given of the high-intensity a-c. carbons, including the current-carrying capacity, the arc voltage, and the rate of consumption. The appearance of the arc and the carbons when the arc is burning is shown in a number of illustrations covering overload and underload conditions, and long, short, and medium arc lengths. The essential requirements for the feeding mechanism and transformer to operate the arc are outlined. It is emphasized that the carbons must be operated under certain definite conditions for the best results."
"The effect on the amount and uniformity of light on the projection screen of changing the position of the arc with respect to the reflector, varying the arc length, decreasing the current, and irregular feeding of the carbons is measured and discussed. The importance of proper draft conditions in the lamp house is emphasized. The comparatively low temperature at the film aperture for a given amount of light on the projection screen from this type of arc is demonstrated. — The unique wave-form of the screen light from this high-intensity alternating-current arc is compared with the wave-form of the screen light from the low-intensity alternating-current neutral cored carbon arc and the rectified neutral cored carbon arc. A logical explanation is furnished by a consideration of these wave-forms for the comparative freedom from light beat or fluctuation with this type of alternating-current arc. It is pointed out that this arc gives no greater light fluctuation on the screen than the arc from rectified current. Other causes of fluctuation of the screen light are cited and suggestions are given for minimizing their effects."
"A new system of noisless recording that makes it possible to increase the volume range considerably without introducing distortion has been developed. The sound waves are amplified and split into two halves by a special mask in the recording optical system. The two half-waves are recorded 180 degress out of phase on separate parts of the sound track. The reproducing system utilizes a photoelectric cell having two cathodes connected in push-pull. Ground noise is reduced to a minimum because only the area occupied by the the recorded waves is transparent, and when there is no modulation the track is completely back."
"The criteria for realistic reproduction of sound are discussed, showing how directional sound-collecting and dispersing systems may be employed to give results comparable with those of an ideal binaural system of reproduction. The use of a directional sound-collecting system, together with a directional sound-dispersing system, establishes: a “center of gravity” of the action; an illusion of depth or perspective; an acoustical or reverberation characteristic compatible with the picture; a large ratio of direct to reflected sound in the theater, emphasizing the acoustical properties of the theater; in musical reproduction, a correct balance and reverberation characteristic by the use of the two parameters."
"The nature of a variable-width sound track on longitudinally lenticulated Color films is discussed, and the optical reduction of 35-mm. subtractive color subjects to 16-mm. film by the Kodacolor process is described."
"A discussion of some of the problems encountered in the development of a 16-mm. sound recording camera, and a description of the most important features of such a camera developed for the use of amateurs."
"Referring to his early experimentation in continuous optical reduction printing, the. author discusses briefly the state of the art and present practices."
"The improvement of sound negatives and the extension of the frequency range- have made the printing of the sound negative onto the final print much more difficult. This paper deals with a printer that assures positive contact and no slipping between the two films at the time of printing. The principle upon which it operates is discussed, and improvements to be gained in making prints upon a machine of this type are shown."
"The optical reduction sound printer was developed to provide a simple and direct means of transferring sound tracks from 35-mm. film to 16-mm. film, and its use resulted in the production of 16-mm. sound tracks of superior quality. The mechanical and optical requirements of the printer are discussed, and features of the process that led to the improved record quality pointed out. An optical system is described that was built to convert a re-recorder into an optical reduction sound printer."
"With the death of C. Francis Jenkins, June 6, 1934, our Society lost not only its founder, but also one of the inventors of the motion picture projector, around which the entire industry has been built up. Those of us who had the privilege of knowing Mr. Jenkins intimately knew him as a man of great imagination and boundless energy, evidenced by something over four hundred patents in his own name, both here and abroad."
"The high degree of uniformity and source of brightness that have made the biplane filament so desirable for motion picture projection prove to be valuable also in spotlighting. The two parallel rows of coils placed so that the coils of one plane fill the spaces between the coils of the other provide a light source of greater uniformity and double the average brightness of the monoplane filament construction. Results are given showing the increased uniformity of the spot and the higher intensities attained with biplane filament lamps as compared with monoplane filament lamps of the same rating. The three types of spotlights most commonly used—namely, the lens spotlight, the shallow paraboloid, and the stereopticon spotlight—have been subjected to test to determine their operating results."
"Reciprocity law failure is dealt with from the standpoint of its application to practical photographic exposures. Reciprocity failure and the manner of its portrayal are first briefly and simply described. It is then shown how the reciprocity failure diagram can be interpreted to show the behavior of time-scale and intensity-scale H&D curves, with regard to speed and contrast, for widely different ranges of intensity corresponding to those existing in certain definite classes of photographic work. Actual reciprocity curves for a number of commercial emulsions are included in the paper."
"Superpan negative film represents a refinement in film manufacture rather than an invention of startling novelty. The anti-abrasion surface coating protects the emulsion from physical harm, and the anti-halation, gray back-coating, underlying the emulsion, preserves the definition and photographic quality. Possessed of adequately high speed, the emulsion produces superior fine-grain results not common to super-sensitive films. A long gradation scale enhances the fidelity of tonal rendition, and an especially wide latitude in both exposure and development increases the range of pictorial possibilities. A high sensitivity to color, carefully balanced throughout the visible spectrum, permits normal rendering or the attainment of desired color emphasis by the use of filters without demanding serious speed sacrifices."
"Improvements in sound-film recording equipment relating to increased high-frequency response and volume range are discussed. New low power exciter lamps and new types of recording objective lenses have been developed. A lamp adjustment optical system and split-beam monitoring equipment are described."
"A short account of the early scientific interests of the author, an honorary member of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers and one of the pioneers in color photography, is followed by a brief description of his important accomplishments and patents."
"Two pieces of apparatus for evaluating sensitometric strips are described: the sensitograph for objective measurement of complete sensitometric strips and automatic recording of the density curve, and the gammagraph for use in continuous control of constancy of the gamma value of short strips."
"An investigation was carried out to obtain quantitative information on the several characteristics of television images, particularly those relating to image detail. The tests were conducted largely through the use of equivalents so as to provide sufficient range of measurement. Such data are of value in establishing operating standards, determining satisfactory performance, and in guiding development work. It was found possible to define satisfactory television image characteristics for those items studied. The results are given in such form as to be readily applicable to practical conditions."
"On January 30, 1934, a demonstration of the transmission and reproduction of speech and music in auditory perspective was held in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, N. Y., to which the members of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers and the Acoustical Society of America were invited. The following are Dr. Fletcher's remarks in explanation of the various features of the demonstration."
"This report of the Progress Committee covers the period June, 1933, to April, 1934. The advances in the cinematographic art are classified as follows: (I) Cinematography, (II) Sound Recording, (III) Sound and Picture Reproduction, (IV) Film Laboratory Practice, (V) Applications of Motion Pictures, (VI) Publications and New Books, (VII) Appendix."
"There is much current activity within the industry looking toward the establishment of a new standard of reel length for multiple reel subjects (commonly termed feature pictures). Any change in reel length would directly affect three important branches of the industry—production, exchange practice, and, in particular, projection—and it was with this thought in mind that the Projection Practice Committee investigated thoroughly the proposed changes."
"The problem of recommending a design for a metal reel for mounting and maintaining release prints that might be standardized for use in the exchanges and would be acceptable to the projectionist for use in projection machines has been before the Committee. With the coöperation of representatives of the exchange operation departments of the various distributing companies and members of the Projection Practice Committee, the matter of footage capacity of the reel was given the greatest consideration."
"The first report of this Committee discussed laboratory procedure in general. The discussion is continued in this report, but now is restricted to the development of the film, which is divided into three phases, viz., (1) the preparation of a negative developing solution, (2) the preparation of a positive developing solution, and (3) means of development control. The material has been selected from the accompanying bibliography supplemented by information collected by the members of the Committee."
"The Projection Practice Committee presented its latest detailed report at the Spring, 1933, Convention at New York, N. Y.1 The meetings that have been held since that time have been devoted to formulating the plans for its next detailed report, to be presented at the Spring, 1934, Convention. Some of the topics to be included in that report, according to the present plans, are as follows: (1) The presentation of the electrical, optical, and mechanical principles involved in projection, from the point of view of the practical projectionist. (2) Projection room routine and maintenance. (3) Precautions to prevent breakdowns or imperfections of projection."
"This Commitee in the past few months has been occupied with bringing together biographical records of many of the pioneers of the motion picture. These records, which are authenticated by early documentary evidence, patents, and contemporary accounts, are to be published when complete in the JOURNAL. It is the hope of the Committee to create a complete record of the beginnings of the motion picture for the JOURNAL so that future students who endeavor to establish and to investigate the origins of the industry can find an authoritative account in the JOURNAL. The Committee will appreciate any suggestions regarding memoirs, documents, or other information that will throw light on the early developments."
"The last report of the work of this Committee was presented to the Society at the New York meeting in April.1 The present report, therefore, is a résumé of the subjects discussed and the resulting action since the April Convention."
"A résumée of the existing situation with respect to sprockets for 35-mm. sound and projection equipment is first presented, followed by a discussion of the interference between the film and the sprockets that transport the film, for sprockets of various dimensions. As a result of the study, sets of dimensions are proposed for the feed- and hold-back sprockets and for the sound sprocket, submitted for the consideration of the Standards Committee of the Society."
"A d-c., high-intensity arc for low currents is described. It differs from the ordinary high-intensity arc used for projection in that the positive carbon is not rotated and is copper coated so that it can be held some distance from the crater end. The current, voltage, and burning characteristics are given for the size carbons available at this time. — The possible utilization of this type of arc for projection is discussed, and it is pointed out that because of the comparatively simple lamp mechanism required, it will take its place with the new a-c., high-intensity arc described in a previous paper in supplying the need for more light in the small and medium size theaters."
"A new motion picture arc lamp designed for use as a general lighting unit is described, in which the new 8-mm., copper-coated, cored carbons are used. Two special mechanisms feed the two carbons of the unit independently of each other, the rate of feed of each being controlled by the voltage drop in each arc. Each control circuit includes a voltage coil and a current coil, acting in magnetic opposition, which arrangement avoids variations of light intensity, flickering, and blinking. The lamps operate under a voltage of 115, drawing a current of 40 amperes, d-c."
"A new type of white flame arc for use in photography is described and its distribution of energy and the composite effect of this energy distribution on the transmission of the lenses and the sensitivity of supersensitive panchromatic film are shown. Of the total radiant energy almost 37 per cent is in the visible portion of the spectrum, and the new carbon shows a very considerable increase in light emitted over former carbons at the same current and voltage."
"Committed to a policy of under graduate education of a general type during the first two college years, the College was faced with the problem of presenting the natural sciences to the entire undergraduate body by means of lectures only. A b-sence of effective laboratory work seemed to doom the enterprise to failure. Demonstration lectures have serious limitations with large groups. The talking motion picture is a perfect medium to use in support of the demonstration lecture in these two ways: close-ups of delicate apparatus can be projected on gigantic scale; natural large-scale phenomena out of doors, and industrial processes may also be brought vividly into the classroom by this means. — The University of Chicago is engaged in producing a series of films designed specifically for the four Introductory General Courses of the University, viz., the humanities, and the social, biological, and physical sciences. Completed and already used with excellent success are films on the molecular theory of matter, oxidation and reduction, energy and its transformations, and electrostatics. In production to be ready for use this year are two reels on wave motion and sound, magnetism and electromagnetism, one reel each. Films on the velocity of chemical reaction, chemical equilibrium, atomic and molecular structure, spectra, interference of light, the velocity of light, carbon and its compounds, the atmosphere, the solar system, the changing surface of the earth, weather and forecasting, time and the calendar, and volcanic phenomena and earthquakes are among those planned for in the physical sciences."
"The use of motion pictures in the non-theatrical field, such as in schools colleges, churches, commercial organizations, steamship lines, hotels, hospitals, Jc., was well established for many years before synchronized sound found its place in the motion picture industry. This field was well supplied with various types of portable motion picture projectors, among which was one known as the Acme S. V.E."
"The work of the Central Laboratory of the All-Union Electrical Trust, Leningrad, U. S. S. R., under the direction of the author, in connection with the study, design, and manufacture of motion picture recording and reproducing apparatus is described. The present installment of the article deals with the research on light modulators, varible width and variable density; ordinary and noiseless recording systems; various forms of recording light sources; and the relative characteristics of the different kinds of modulators, viz., Western Electric, RCA, the author's, Kerr's cell, and flashing lamp."
"The extension of the frequency and volume ranges in recording and reproducing sound has aroused a greater and more critical consciousness of the importance of theater acoustics. It follows that higher fidelity in reproduction excites greater intolerance of the needless distortion caused by poor acoustics of the theater. To cope with the new situation, engineers have developed new instruments for acoustical analysis, which provide greater precision and facility in detecting defects and in determining the necessary corrections. — In addition to instrumental developments there have been concurrent advances in acoustical theory and practice. The result is that the more stringent requirements imposed on the acoustics of the theater by the enlarged frequency and volume ranges can be fulfilled adequately and practically. The paper discusses the requirements and describes some of the available methods for complying with them."
"The recent improvements in sound quality resulting from the extension of the frequency and intensity ranges are the results of coördinated activity in recording equipment and processes, reproducing equipment, and theater acoustics. This paper discusses the recording phase of the process. A wide-range recording channel consists essentially of the moving-coil microphone, suitable amplifiers, a new recording lens, and certain electrical networks. — The characteristics of such a system, from the microphone to and including the processed film, are shown. Other factors fundamentally associated with wide-range recording, such as monitoring, film processing, the selection of takes in the review room, and re-recording, are also discussed. The changes brought about by this system of recording result, first, in a greater freedom of expression and action on the part of the actor; and, second, a much greater degree of naturalness and fidelity than has been previously achieved."
"This paper provides further details of the Selenophon system described previously in the Journal, and an account of recent developments of the system. Records can be made by either the variable-width or the variable-density method; the latter being used almost exclusively for film recording, aud the former for recording on paper. The paper records were produced in order to provide a means of recording sound in the home and for other “stenographic” purposes at small cost."
"This paper presents an investigation of the growth of the ground noise during the successive stages of the processes involved, from the time of manufacturing the base support until the sound is reproduced in the theater. — A study is made of the relation between emulsion grain size and the level of ground noise. When the processing and handling were done with the utmost care, the ground noise was found to decrease continuously as the emulsion grain size decreased. — Finally, a study was made of the character of the noise from the standpoint of the relation between its r.m.s. value and its average and peak values, as well as a determination of the noise as a function of frequency."
"The production of sound-film prints from variable density negatives by the Model D Bell & Howell printer has been studied from the point of view of high-frequency response and uniformity of product. The account of this study, begun in Part I1, is continued here, with particular reference to the degree of influence of slippage on the high-frequency response, occasioned particularly by non-conformity of the perforation pitch of the negative and positive films. It is found that to improve printing conditions in practice, it is first necessary to achieve consistency in the pitch of the processed negative and positive materials and to make the pitch of the processed negative 0.0004 inch less than that of the positive raw stock."
"The results of a year of experience with the engineering model of this printer in actual production printing are outlined. The actual constructional changes that have been made in the printer are described and illustrated, and new developments that enable prompt and accurate sensitometric control to be maintained under production conditions are outlined briefly."
"Although the trend in projection lamp development has been toward high-intensity, short-life lamps, the need for a lamp that can be operated for long periods of time, such as in advertising projectors, has arisen. The design and operating characteristics of such a lamp are described, together with the influence of airway beacon practice, the problem of existing projectors, projector lens limitations, and the effect of voltage change."
"Improvements that have been made in the production and reproduction of sound on 16-mm. film are briefly described, together with some of the problems that have been encountered. The two methods of obtaining sound-on-film, namely, recording and optical reduction printing, are discussed. It is now possible to reduce optically frequencies as high as 9000 cycles on 16-mm. film. Using a practical design of 16-mm. reproducing equipment it is possible to obtain sound from the 16-mm. film of as good quality as the sound that was formerly obtained from the average 35-mm. theater equipment."
"The economics and practical application of color cinematography, its problems in production, and its laboratory requirements in the industrial field are briefly reviewed."
"Some of the more common acoustical defects of theaters, such as the transmission of extraneous noises into the auditorium, the emanation of sounds from vibrating or rotating machinery, the reflection effects of curved surfaces, and reverberation, are discussed. The manner of treating auditoriums for obviating such effects is described briefly."
"The preceding edition of this booklet, known as the “Standards Adopted by the Society of Motion Picture Engineers.” published originally in J. Soc. Mot. Pict. Eng., XIV (May, 1930), No. 5, p. 545, and approved by the American Standards Association September 20, 1930, contained the first fifteen of the following charts. Although in this revised edition of the booklet some of those charts have been superseded, they have been retained for purposes of reference, the original chart numbers being unchanged. Some of the changes involved new dimensions, whereas others involved merely a new and clearer presentation of the existing dimensions; in any case, the captions following the chart numbers indicate the new charts to be consulted."
"A discussion of various methods of producing motion pictures at speeds higher than at present attainable with intermittent mechanisms; followed by a description of a high-speed motion picture camera (1200 frames a second, on 35-mm. film) using intermittent light from mercury-arc stroboscope lamps developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Several examples of the use of the lamp are given."
"A rapid small-scale method of determining frequency response characteristics, of particular application to cases in which a large number of conditions are to be compared."
"This paper discusses the use made of the piezoelectric effect in designing sub-standard timekeepers and frequency generators. The nature of the piezoelectric effect is outlined and mention is made of the various classes of crystals in which it is found. The technic of setting up, electrically, various types of mechanical vibrations in piezoelectric crystals is described together with methods of obtaining very high frequencies. Other applications of the piezoelectric effect, such as to loud speakers, submarine signaling, etc., are briefly reviewed."
"The development of the Rochelle salt crystal microphone, with particular reference to the grille and sound-cell type, is described; and the construction of the sound-cells and the method employed for rendering them air-tight and water-proof are explained. Due to the small size of the microphones they are relatively free from distortion arising from cavity resonance, diffraction, and phase-shift, and are non-directional. — Comparative response curves ranging in frequency from 50 to 10,000 cycles per second are presented. Special types of piezoelectric microphones for sound picture recording, radio broadcasting, and theater sound-reënforcing systems are described. Some of their physical, electrical, and acoustical characteristics are discussed, including those of a new unidirectional instrument."
"Many improvements have been made in recent years in the equipment used in producing motion pictures. This paper describes some of the uses and advantages of the new equipment, and the problems involved in adapting it; and refers to the personnel of the sound crew, the use of velocity microphones, a new kind of visual amplitude indicator, the use of cloth and hard surfaces in set construction, the advantages of process projection, and the new silent Debrie motion picture camera."
"The complexity of the geometrical optics involved in a motion picture projector leads to numerous proposals for improving illumination in some respect that look plausible at first glance but generally fail in practice. Among such proposals we might consider the addition of a small collective lens in the immediate neighborhood of the film gate. Careful study of the transmission of light from source to screen reveals the fact that in some reflector arcs such a lens can improve evenness of illumination and in some cases raise the general level, although the latter could have been taken care of in the design of the lamp. In a typical condenser equipment with the 13.6-mm. high-intensity arc no possibility of improvement was found either in an analytical study or in experimental tests."
"The microdensitometer is extensively used in studying a variety of problems of sound-film recording and reproducing: in studying the operating characteristics of light-modulating devices; in plotting variations of light transmission of sound-tracks in respect to the harmonic content of film records; in establishing correct operating technic in film processing; in studying the photographic characteristics of film as regards its ability to record high frequencies; and many other aspects of sound recording and reproducing. — The commercially available microdensitometers are not well suited to making such studies unless proper means are taken to assure correct comparisons with data obtained with a calibrated reproducer. The present paper describes the modifications of a Moll microdensitometer that have converted it into a satisfactory instrument for sound-picture investigations."
"When studying sound it is sometimes useful to project the wave-form of electrical or acoustical phenomena on a screen. A rotating mirror in combination with a vibrating mirror and a light source provide a convenient means of showing such waves. The problem of building an instrument for such a purpose is comparatively simple if a small screen is used in a dark chamber. However, when the screen is large enough to be viewed by a dozen or more persons, many difficulties arise. — The paper describes how the various parts of the apparatus may be coördinated in order to produce a comparatively bright, clearly defined wave with a small incandescent lamp in a room of average illumination. The vibrator used in the apparatus may be so constructed that its response is either inversely proportional to or independent of the frequency."
"The various technical phases of theater operation, grouped under the headings (1) projection, (2) sound, (3) light, power, and heal, (4) building maintenance, are discussed. Particular attention is paid to means of effecting savings in the cost of operation, such as by properly choosing the type and voltage of lamps; burning the proper size carbons in the proper manner; keeping lamps, reflectors, optical systems, and screens free from dust and dirt; selecting the proper kind of fuel for the heating system, and properly firing it; paying close attention to the maintenance of the theater building, particularly the roof, a rain hazard; and the various fire hazards."
"After defining motion picture engineering as the production of an acceptable semblance of reality, there are discussed the functions of the engineer and the artist, as well as certain aspects of parts engineering, including the improvement of the film, the camera, lenses, studio lighting, sound recording, laboratory processes, theater monitoring and maintenance, sound reproduction, theater architecture, and other allied matters. An open mind and a determined attempt favoring continuous evolution of the art are urged."
"The work of the Central Laboratory of the All-Union Electrical Trust, Leningrad, U. S. S. R., under the direction of the author, in connection with the study, design, and manufacture of motion picture recording and reproducing apparatus, is described. The present installment of the article deals with the research on light modulators, variable width and variable density; ordinary and noiseless recording systems; various forms of recording light sources; and the relative characteristics of the different kinds of modulator, viz., Western Electric, RCA, the author's, Kerr's cell, and the flashing lamp. The article will be concluded in the April, 1934, issue of the Journal."
"The Visual and Sound Test Reels, developed under the supervision of the Projection Practice Committee, were described fully in the August, 1933, issue of the Journal. The reels are now available, and consist of two sections, each approximately 500 feel long. They are designed to be used as precision instruments in theaters, review rooms, exchanges, laboratories, and the like, for testing the performance of projectors. Either or both sections may be obtained on order accompanied by a remittance of $37.50 for each section, from the General Office of the Society, at 33 West 42nd Street, New York, N. Y."
"At a meeting of the New York Section of the Society, held at New York on December 13th, the following address was delivered by MY. Barton through the medium of a disk record of Victrolac1 recorded through a high-fidelily recording system and reproduced through a properly compensated high-fidelity reproducing system. Following the reproduction of the record, the meeting was opened to a general discussion of the system."
"A device proposed for use in all theaters as a standard method of changing from one projector to the other is described. The device is controlled by a constant frequency photographically recorded on the edge of the film a given distance from the end of the picture portion of a reel of film. Its purpose is to eliminate individual cueing and improve the presentation of talking motion pictures by enabling the projectionist to make change-overs more exactly without visible marks on the screen, and to avoid to a large degree the film mutilation and increased fire hazard that results from the practice of individual cueing."
"The control frequency principle, consisting in the impression of a supra- or infra-audible frequency on a disk record for the purpose of actuating relays and local circuits in order to change views projected by a stereopticon or other means, is described. Two forms of apparatus are presented, the Phonopticon and the Controlophone."
"The standards of this section apply to constant current transformers of the moving coil type. Standards for other types of transformers are the subjects of separate sections."
