"The superregeneration of an ultra-short-wave receiver is investigated theoretically and experimentally under the following four headings: Part I. Theory of Quenching Action. Part II. Experiments on Quenching Action. Part III. Effects of Signal Wave. Part IV. Amplification by Superregeneration. In Part I is developed an analysis of a quenching action, when the quenching electromotive force is assumed to operate by varying sinusoidally the amount of effective resistance of the oscillatory circuit. A simple criterion is given on the stability of the oscillation in the receiver. It states that the higher the quenching frequency and the greater the amplitude of the periodic resistance, the more unstable the oscillation becomes. The oscillatory current is of a nature of a modulated carrier wave, where the modulation varies the frequency as well as the amplitude of the carrier and a number of component frequencies are comprised in it. In Part II are described the experiments on the quenching action. The stable and the unstable regions of the oscillation under the influence of quenching action are determined. The results are of a somewhat complicated aspect, but the above criterion is generally satisfied. The transient phenomena at the start or at the end of the oscillation are investigated by means of a Braun tube oscillograph. The characteristic noise of the superregenerative receiver is concluded to be generated with the irregularities of the electromotive forces which initiate the oscillation."
"Part I. A modified form of the long-line equations for use at ultra-high frequencies is given. A complete solution is obtained for a pair of parallel wires bridged at each end by a general impedance. The solution is in the form of expressions giving the voltage across, and the current through one of these impedances. Conditions are given under which the current or voltage becomes a maximum, as well as formulas for these maximum amplitudes. Special cases are discussed and expressions are derived for use in the measurement of reactance and resistance. Part II. A convenient form of parallel wire system for ultra-high-frequency measurements is briefly described, and its constants are listed. The use of a tandem bridge is explained. The general problem of measuring current and voltage at ultra-high frequencies is considered. A method is mathematically derived for obtaining the calibration characteristics of current and voltage indicators; the method is applied experimentally to determine such characteristics for a thermal milliammeter and for the symmetrical screen-grid voltmeter. The scale factor is discussed. Part III. The mathematical theory of Part I is applied to obtain two methods for measuring respectively high and low reactances. These are used to measure the reactances of various wires, coils, condensers, thermal milliammeters, vacuum thermocouples, etc., and to study series and parallel resonance circuits at ultra-high frequencies. Part IV. The general problem of resistance at ultra-highfrequencies is discussed. The mathematical theory of Part I is applied to the measurement of resistance."
"The present trend in broadcast engineering is to build transmitting antennas with reduced radiation at high angles of elevation. This increases the coverage of transmitters, within which no appreciable amount of \"short range fading\" takes place. A novel antenna of this kind is described below. It consists of a vertical radiator combined with a horizontal shield located near its top. In this paper both an experimental and a theoretical investigation of such an antenna are presented. The experiment was performed on a small scale model at a wavelength of five meters. A number of different antennas were tested having shields of various diameters located at various heights above ground. Their vertical plane field patterns were compared with the pattern of a vertical wire, a quarter of a wavelength long. The experiment, as well as the theory, indicates that the current in the shield must be properly controlled in order to obtain the desired field pattern. Practically, this condition is met if the radius of the shield is such that the latter oscillates at its natural wavelength (current node in the center of the shield), and if the shield has a certain height above ground. Both from experiment and theory it is found that good results are obtained, even if the height is less than a quarter of a wavelength, which, from the point of cost, is a very important fact."
"The anode direct current versus grid bias voltage characteristic of tubes is developed in a sum i = ZAneaV, where two or three terms suffice to represent the curves of some modern commercial tubes quite accurately. This development has two practical advantages. In the first place, as is shown in the first three sections, by comparison with measured values, detection slope and distortion effects may be accurately calculated from the static tube characteristics. In the second place, some general conclusions are obtained regarding the detection of various input waves. Finally, measured and calculated values of detection gain are compared and found to check fairly well."
"This paper presents the mathematical theory and practical difficulties involved in the adaptation of the quadrant electrometer to radio-frequency power measurements. Two modified electrostatic wattmeter circuits are described and the limitations in their use are given. Data on typical measurements between 20 and 150 watts at 655 kilocycles are presented with the corresponding degree of accuracy for each case."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The Institute of Radio Engineers was formed in 1912 through the amalgamation of the Society of Wireless Telegraph Engineers and the Wireless Institute. Its headquarters were established in New York City and the membership has grown from less than fifty members at the start to almost six thousand by the end of 1932. The Institute functions solely to advance the theory and practice of radio and allied branches of engineering and of the related arts and sciences, their application to human needs, and the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members. Among the methods of accomplishing this need is the publication of papers, discussions, and communications of interest to the membership. The PROCEEDINGS is the official publication of the Institute and in it are published all of the papers, discussions, and communications received from the membership which are accepted for publication by the Board of Editors. Copies are sent without additional charge to all members of the Institute."
"Lists the Chairman and Secretary of various international and USA Sections and provides their contact information."
"Members are grouped by grade and listed by US state and city; non-US members are listed by country and city."
"Applications for transfer or election to the various grades of membership have been received from the persons listed here, and have been approved by the Committee on Admissions. Members objecting to transfer or election of any of these applicants should communicate with the Secretary. These applications will be considered by the Board of Direction at its next meeting."
"Provides a listing of current officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The apparatus to be described has been developed to provide a transmitting and receiving equipment for small and medium commercial and private aircraft which will be extremely simple to operate and as foolproof as possible. Many features are introduced which, although they have been in use for broadcast and other commercial radio apparatus, have not been applied to aircraft radio equipments. For example, an electrical remote tuning system is used for the receiver, and automatic volume control on both telephony and telegraphy is provided. The equipment provides a telephonic range of 180-200 miles, and a telegraphic range of 350-400 miles, and weighs only sixty pounds complete."
"Several types of parasites or spurious oscillations and other forms of radio transmitter instability are described. Methods of locating and eliminating parasitic circuits are discussed.."
"The fundamental functions of the electrons and their work cycle, in the interelectrode space of high vacuum tubes, are discussed. It is shown how the triode feed-back circuit becomes inoperable at very high frequencies due to space-time and reactance characteristics. It is further shown how the space-time conditions can be organized to benefit the maintenance of oscillation instead of becoming a detriment. Some of the more familiar arrangements, such as the Barkhausen and the magnetron circuits, which are based on this principle, are discussed in some detail. With these illustrations as a background the author describes a new method of frequency multiplication at very high frequencies. This method yields much greater power outpuds than hitherto possible and promises to become very useful. Various means for frequency stabilization are referred to and the merits of frequency controlling devices, such as crystals and low power factor circuits, are compared. Special problems encountered in the application of modulation at very high frequences are described and reference is made to methods developed to meet these problems. Practical considerations of circuit arrangements are described in some detail. Several examples of transmitter design are given. These sections are illustrated with photographs. Important points in connection with antennas and transmission lines are discussed and the results of some measurements are given. The paper ends with a brief reference to some propagation results obtained by RCA Communications engineers and others."
"This paper deals with an improved oscillatory system wherein the dynamic excursion is associated with the secondary emission region of the vacuum tube characteristic, plate current vs. plate voltage. A more or less conventional dynatron oscillator, using a tetrode, is improved by feeding back some of the output power to the inner grid. The maximum increase in oscillatory power was found to be about fifty per cent above the same system with a static control grid potential."
"This paper gives the development of formulas for optimum design of single turn toroidal inductances to be used in ultra-high-frequency tank circuits. Two fundamental types of inductances are analyzed. Equations and curves for condition of maximum Q and parallel resistance R′ are set forth. The determination of radio-frequency resistance, operating conditions, and possible uses are discussed."
"A toroidal coil wound with a flat conductor so curved that the flat side follows exactly the surface of the toroid has remarkably low losses. The Q (=ωL/R) of such a coil is independent of the number of turns, is proportional to size, and to the square root of frequency. For maximum Q there is a best proportion which is given in the paper for the case of toroids of rectangular and circular cross sections, together with formulas for calculating the losses and the Q for such toroids. These formulas show that values of Q between 1000 and 10,000 are theoretically realizable with reasonable dimensions. The practical difficulties of realizing the theoretical possibilities are discussed, and it is shown that the mechanical construction must have a perfection comparable to the skin depth of current penetration."
"Results obtained in hourly measurements of critical frequencies of the layers of the ionosphere are presented for the period of a year between May, 1933, and April, 1934. The critical frequencies were obtained by an automatic recorder which covers the frequency band 2500-4400 kilocycles at a uniform rate of 200 kilocycles per minute. Critical frequencies in this band are for the E and F1layers in the daytime and for the F layer at night. Graphs are presented which represent hourly averages of critical frequencies for each layer for each month. The points from which the averages are obtained are also plotted to show the scatter. The critical frequencies for the E and F1layers follow in phase with the sun both diurnally and seasonally. During the day \"fine structure\" is often in evidence indicating other strata between the usual E and F1layers. The results obtained for the F layer during the winter night are of particular interest. After dropping to a minimum near midnight the critical frequency increases to a maximum at about 4:00 a.m., then drops to a second minimum before sunrise. This increase during the night represents more than a 100 per cent increase of maximum electron density. The results for the period September 11-30, 1933, are compared with those for the same period of 1934 showing a considerably greater ionization density for the latter period. The minimum point of the average curve for 1934 is about 180 kilocycles higher than that for 1933."
"The effects of dissipation in the lattice-type, phase-compensating network are considered. There are three effects: (1) the phase shift is slightly different from the ideal calculated value; (2) there is introduced an attenuation; (3) the image impedance varies, especially near the frequencies of resonance and antiresonance of the lattice arms. The third effect is most important as it causes highly inconvenient reflections. Two methods are described for avoiding this effect, one of the methods having the special advantage that it avoids effect (1) at the same time."
"Copies of the publications listed on this page may be obtained gratis by addressing a request to the publisher or manufacturer."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Summary form only given, as follows. This, the fifty-fourth volume of the TRANSACTIONS of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, contains the entire text content of the 12 monthly issues of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING published during 1935. This is the second in a new series of annual volumes initiated under the Institute's unified publication plan which became effective 1 January 1934. Discussions of technical papers, printed in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING from month to month as they become available, are thoroughly correlated in the comprehensive multi-entry annual reference index which begins on page 1426 of this volume. A reference to any of the several subject entries for any technical paper will lead directly to any discussion on that paper that may have been published during 1935. In this connection it is of importance to note: first, that, of 1934 papers, this volume contains all discussions published after December 1934; second, that, likewise, the discussion of many of the later 1935 papers will appear in the 1936 TRANSACTIONS by virtue of publication in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING subsequent to 1 January 1936."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Most engineers are familiar with some of the more common uses of X rays, and many have had occasion to apply them in their daily work; to many, however, the picture of this versatile tool and its numerous applications in quite incomplete. The latter will find this article particularly interesting and instructive. The nature of these rays, the mechanism of their production, and the fundamental principles underlying their many applications in medicine, physics, chemistry, biology, and industry are outlined briefly. Perhaps the most striking application is the determination of the ultimate fine structure of materials from the results of diffraction analysis, in which the X rays provide a supermicroscopic vision of matter. This is the thirteenth and concluding article of the \"Science Series for Engineers\" developed under auspices of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"A brief review of the present status of standardization of noise meters and measurements and progress made to date by the technical committee on noise meters and noise levels of the American Standards Association."
"A successful manufacturing engineer looks at the social sciences. He points out that ``all wealth is produced from land by the application of labor aided by capital.'' In order that every one might have an opportunity of securing his rightful share of land, a new system is proposed wherein every community would collect all community-created ground rent and all taxation on wealth would be abolished."
"With the aid of sound measurements made with an analyzing type of sound meter, it has been possible to ascertain the principal sources of noise in an electric power substation in a residential district and to reduce the noise to an unobjectionable level. The principal sources of noise were found to be an outdoor 6,000-kva transformer and the voltage regulators inside building; by replacig the noisy transformer with a quieter one and replacing the ventilating louvers in the regulator rooms with steel plates the noise on neighboring properties was reduced to about 4 per cent of its original loudness."
"Equipment for handling frequency band widths of the order of 1,000,000 cycles or more for telephone, telegraph, and television purposes was described in a recent Institute paper ``Wide Band Transmission Over Coaxial Lines.'' This previous paper confines itself to the coaxial line structure, but points out that broad band transmission is also applicable to balanced conductor systems. The present paper discusses briefly some of the possibilities of the more familiar balanced circuits, circuits essentially as they now exist in the present plant being first considered, following which are considered circuits obtained by new construction. Wide band transmission over balanced circuits offers interesting possibilities both in the present plant and for new construction."
"Determination of the permissible neutral resistance or reactance for the grounding of cable systems for 3 phase power supply is considered in this paper. The theory of overvoltages which may arise as a result of lative action is discussed, and a description of the method for calculating these voltages is given. A simplified criterion for determining the value of neutral resistance or neutral reactance for limiting the over-voltages is proposed which permits the use of higher values than any preceding method."
"Electronic tubes are being applied in rapidly increasing numbers in the solution of industrial control problems. A review of several of the most frequently encountered types of problems to which these tubes are being applied is presented herewith. These include photo-electric control applications, electronic relays, electronic regulators, and a welding timer for seam welding."
"The correlation of the pressure and temperature effects in determining the dielectric strength of mineral insulating oils is considered in this paper. The effect which gas dissolved in the oil has on the dielectric strength of the oil is shown by experimental results of tests on the effect of temperature and pressure. Based upon these results, simple formulas for expressing the dielectric strength of oil are obtained."
"The 2 principles of noise measurement, namely, the subjective and objective principles, are discussed in this paper with special reference to electrical plant. Two forms of measurement embodying the subjective principle are considered: One is the proposed primary standard method, which is essentially a laboratory method; the other is the noise audiometer, which enables the subjective principle to be applied directly to the study of engineering noise problems. A form of audiometer and technique, together with their practical advantages, are described. The objective method of measurement is particularly needed for commercial acceptance tests. The evidence shows that the objective type of instrument now available evaluates the noise of many types of plant correctly, but that with noises predominantly harmonic in tone structure, the principle of the method is inapplicable. It is concluded that the audiometer provides the only practicable means at present available for measuring transformer noise and that no satisfactory solution for the commercial testing of such apparatus has yet been reached."
"During the last few years, the expulsion protective gap, consisting of an arrangement of spark gaps inside of fiber tubes and in series with an external gap, has been applied to a few medium voltage transmission lines for protection against outage due to lighting. The first extensive application of such gaps on 2 typical 132 kv lines during the past 2 lightning seasons are presented herewith. These expulsion protective gaps are shown to be an effective device for preventing lightning flashovers of a line and reducing line outage."
"Field experience and tests show that unexpectedly high transient sheath voltage occur during the switching of charging current in single-conductor cable-type bus leads and in underground single-conductor power transmission cables bonded to eliminate sheath losses. No sheath troubles from these voltages have been found. Theoretical analysis of these voltages is presented together with suggested methods for protection of equipment, when the latter is necessary."
"Several of the circuits and principles of application of the various types or electron tubes in industrial control are considered in this paper. Principal consideration is given to the various types of photo-electric control, electron tube-reactor theater lighting control electron tube motor control, trol, and electron tube welder control. Principles intended as guides in the selection of the proper tube circuits are given."
"For the benefit of those who may wish to use vacuum tubes in meeting specific problems in the field of measurement, the comprehensive bibliography contained in this paper has been prepared. Some 600 references are included in this list, selected from a total of about 1,500 papers or books published since approximately 1920. The first portion of the bibliography contains publications dealing with the characteristics of vacuum tubes, and the second portion contains references to specific applications to measurement problems."
"High voltage d-c electric power transmission has been envisioned for many years, but numerous obstacles have prevented its use to any great extent. Most of these obstacles appear to be over come in the system described in this paper; this system comprises conversion of constant-potential a-c power to constant-current d-c power, transmission of constant-current d-c power and reconversion to constant-potential a-c power. The promising features of this system are its unusual stability and reliability; as an example, the high-voltage constant-current d-c line may be short-circuited without damage to line or equipment."
"Operating experience obtained during 2 lightning seasons with an installation of carrier current relays on a New England power system is presented herewith. A résumé of the reasons for the choice of this type of protection also is given, and the relay and carrier current equipment is described."
"This paper extends a previous paper on the investigation of ultra-short wave propagation, to include transmission within a built-up region together with a consideration of the additional problems introduced by man-made interference. Test were made using both a fixed transmitter with mobile receiver, and a mobile transmitter with a fixed receiver."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Two methods of magnetic and dielectric flux mapping by means of experimental models are described in this paper. Both methods use resistance models, through which current is passed; electrical conductivities of model parts are adjusted to correspond to magnetic or dielectric permeabilities of corresponding parts of the original design, and paths of electric current flow and electric equipotential lines in the model correspond to magnetic or dielectric flux lines and equipotential lines in the original design. Low melting point waxes with carbon or graphite inclusions are particularly suitable for model making purposes due to easy working properties and ready control of the electrical conductivity."
"For that broad group of electrical engineers not familiar with Heaviside's operational method and its value in the analysis of electrical circuits, this article presents briefly some of the fundamental characteristics of the method and explains how it is applied; its application is illustrated by the formulation of operational equations for a few typical circuits. Although intended primarily to impart only the fundamentals of the subject to an engineer who has had ordinary mathematical training, it is hoped that the article also may serve as an introduction and guide to further study."
"With the aid of specially designed auxiliary devices, the cathode ray oscillograph may be operated as a multielement instrument, in circuits that permit of the repeated application of the wave to be observed. The number of waves that may be traced with apparent simulataneity on the oscillograph screen is limited only by the complexity of the control circuit and the crowding of the various curves on the relatively small screen."
"A summary of progress during 1934 and part of 1935 In electric furnace developments in Europe has been prepared by D. F. Campbell, a leading authority on the electrometallurgical industry in Europe, at the request of the Institute's committee on electrochemistry and electrometallurgy. The summary is presented herewith for the information of the Institute's membership."
"An investigation of the effects of polarity and current density on the rate of wear of electrical brushes is reported in this paper, following a brief review of previous experimental work in this field. For carbon and copper impregnated carbon brushes the rate of wear of the positive brush is considerably less than that of the negative brush, while for metallic brushes the situation is reversed. The rate of wear of metallic brushes was found to be much greater than that of carbon brushes, under conditions of these tests. While no complete explanation of brush wear can be derived from the results, the rate of wear seems to be related intimately to the conduction of current across the contact."
"A semigraphical method of solving for harmonics in the input current to a network containing any number of linear and nonlinear resistances in any combination, when a sinusoidal voltage is applied across the network, is presented herewith. The treatment is restricted to nonlinear resistances in which the d-c volt-ampere characteristic is the same regardless of the direction of current. While the method has the errors inherent in any graphical solution, the results indicate good accuracy with little labor."
"The electrolytic capacitor for alternating current is coming into increased use, having recently been introduced for the starting of small single phase motors. Little is known of the film upon which its operation depends, but the general construction and characteristics of the capacitor are reviewed in this paper. The need for the development of testing procedure that will lead to an improved product is pointed out."
"A 300 kva, synchronous type, 60-25 5/7 cycle static frequency changer, which was designed to be changed to a rectifier after the 25 cycle motor load has been replaced by 60 cycle motors, is described in this paper. The problems involved in the design of the control circuits are discussed in some detail, and the performance is described."
"When 3 phase induction motors are to be operated from single phase lines, split phase starting is Frequently used. The optimum values of external resistance and reactance for split phase starting may be determined by the method of symmetrical components. In the present paper, equations For determining these values for each of the 2 commonly used split phase starting schemes are derived. The result of calculations based upon this method are shown to compare favorably with experimental data."
"To meet the demand for sustained accuracy in watt-hour meters and for adaptability to service requirements, the meter described in this paper has been produced. It offers simplicity and interchangeability, light weight, high accuracy over a wide range of load, and convenience of adjustment, and features an improved overload compensator, a new form of full load adjustment, and a new form of combined open-potential-coil indicator and balance adjustment for polyphase meters."
"To reduce radio interference caused by corona from pin insulators, adherent conducting coatings or films usually are applied to the central portions of the heads of the insulators, and metal thimbles or conducting coatings in the pin holes. By extending the coating to cover the entire head and by using a coating of the proper resistivity, the voltage at which corona occurs can be raised considerably without materially lowering the flashover voltage. This paper calls attention to the principle of controlling the potential distribution over surfaces of insulators by utilizing the resistance drop in potential resulting from the flow of charging current in high resistance films."
"Tests on unbleached unsized linen paper of high purity indicate that the physical defects implied by the various pyroelectric theories of insulation failure appear secondary to, and manifested as a result of, the chemical changes involved. These chemical changes result in both increased power factor and decreased dielectric strength of the insulation. The investigation shows that chemical results of overheating of cellulose insulation in service may be disastrous even within a range of temperatures not generally associated with dangerous physical effects."
"A general purpose cathode ray oscillograph is described in this paper which embodies a cathode ray tube of high beam efficiency, a description of which has not hitherto been published. This tube makes it possible to use a high frequency oscillator for supplying both the beam and sweep voltages. An electronic switching circuit is described which greatly extends the usefulness of the cathode ray oscillograph by making it possible to portray simultaneously 2 or more different waves in their proper phase relation, provided both waves have frequencies which are in a simple multiple relationship to each other."
"In performing surge tests on electrical power apparatus to determine ability to withstanding lightning or switching surges, the shape of the impulse voltage wave should be approximately the same as 1 of the 3 test wave shapes commonly in use. Methods of producing a wave shape having the prescribed time constants are described in this paper, and oscillograms are presented which show the correctness of calculated design characteristics of the generator for producing these surges."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"During the course of the extensive research in arc welding being conducted at Lehigh University under joint sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. and several other organizations, apparatus for experimental welding at atmospheric pressure in controlled pure gas atmospheres has been designed and constructed. Tests in argon gas reveal 3 phenomena not previously associated with the welding arc: (1) the impossibility of maintaining a stable arc in highly purified argon under ordinary conditions; (2) the absence of all crater formation under pure iron in pure argon; and (3) the absence of all observable ``pinch effect'' accompanying the detachment of the globules from the electrode wire."
"A simple impedance bridge may be used to measure the variation of inductance of a disconnecting switch of practical dimensions as the switch blade is displaced by slight amounts from the closed position. The electromagnetic force tending to open the switch blade, calculated from the observed variation of inductance, checks the theoretical value obtained from Dwight's formula. The bridge may be used to determine the electromagnetic forces acting on current carrying members the configuration of which is such as to make accurate theoretical calculation impossible."
"The relation which the resistiviy of the earth's crust bears to the geological structure has been studied with the aid of many experimentally obtained data. Although the resistivity is found to vary between wide limits, and not always to be the same even for the same types of rock formation in different locations, it has been found that the variation for any particular material is within more narrow limits, and that the older materials generally have the higher resistivities. The results of the studies are of value in several types of electrical calculations."
"By means of specially devised translators, described in this paper, 3-element cablecode signals may be translated into 2-element signals for transmission over ordinary landline telegraph plants; by means of retranslating circuits, also described, the signals may be restored to their original 3-element form. Signals in the 2-element form may be monitored without the aid of retranslators. Synchronism is not required between the translators and retranslators."
"Load ratings for underground electric power transmission cables for 2 typical metropolitan load cycles are computed in this paper by the method of harmonic analysis of load cycles. Test data are given which agree reasonably well with theoretical calculations. A logical basis for emergency rating of cables also is demonstrated. A comparison of costs of transmission for various duct conditions indicates that large conduit systems are not economical because of the lower ratings necessitated by the greater heat dissipated."
"Before an electric arc furnace, which is a rapidly fluctuating load during part of its operating cycle, is connected to an electric power distribution system, the electrical characteristics of the furnace must be known in order that the service may be provided in such a way that the resulting voltage fluctuations on the system will not exceed allowable limits. These and related factors are discussed in this paper which outlines a general procedure that may be followed in planning electric service for such loads."
"Theories and concepts developed in connection with circuit rupturing by switches and circuit breakers are used to analyze the factors involved in the flashing of railway motors. The investigation is limited to cases where Flashing is caused by brush jumping, which occurs principally with railway motors. Voltage conditions as applying at the commutator circumference and as affecting the sustenance of an arc are studied for varying designs of main poles with different ratios of armature ampere turns to field ampere turns. The effect of load current and speed is subsequently taken into account. Actual test results are compared with the theories outlined. Finally, the modifying effect of certain secondary phenomena is discussed."
"A photoelectric cell of the dry disk type, consisting of a light-sensitive disk and not requiring any vacuum or liquid was developed a few years ago, and has proved to be a very useful device. Characteristics of one type of dry disk photoelectric cell are described in this paper, and a number of typical applications of the cell are given."
"Commercial applications of ``angle switching'' of synchronous motors are given especial attention in this paper. ``Angle switching'' refers to a method of starting synchronous motors whereby the time of application of the excitation voltage with respect to the relative angular position of the field poles and the impressed voltage is controlled. The advantages of this method of starting are pointed out, the equipment is described briefly, and a number of practical applications in which increased starting torque, reduced starting current, or other features were obtained are described."
"A type of electric furnace for application to metallurgy and to operations at very high temperatures has been develope in which the heat producing element is a carbon electrode raised to a very high temperature and conveying heat to the charge by radiation. Furnaces of this type, which have incorporated in them a number of novel features, have been devised and perfected in France in the electrothermic laboratory of the company with which the author is connected."
"Based upon a theory of traveling waves previously expounded by the author, this paper presents a method of resolving oscillograms of traveling waves on electric power lines into their multivelocity components. The effects of a ground wire on multivelocity waves also are pointed out."
"An attempt to clarify the definitions of power, power factor, and related quantities has led to an intensive study which has included a large number of actual test measurements of the quantities involved. Measurements of positive and negative power, and the use of a ``power ratio'' based upon these 2 quantities are proposed, particularly for circuits in which the voltages and currents are nonsinusoidal or unbalanced. Positive and negative energy and power can be measured approximately with apparatus commercially available."
"Inductively heating iron parts for drying coatings discloses interesting features which may be applied to other low temperature processes. The electrical design of the oven and circuits for induction heating at low temperatures are considered in this paper. Low maintenance and operating costs, cleanliness, and reduced processing time are among the features available."
"A system of stationary conversion of electric energy from a-c to d-c form is described in this paper in which commutation is effected by harmonically vibrating contacts actuated electromagnetically. Combined with the vibratory commutative system is a special transformer with closely coupled primary and secondary windings which are subdivided into numerous phases corresponding to the coils of a Gramme ring; the travel of the electromagnetic field that actuates the vibrating contacts is in synchronism with the travel of flux polarity in the respective transformer members. A model converter embodying these principles is described and illutrated."
"A generalized infinite integral theorem and its transform and applications are presented in this paper in such form that it becomes unnecessary to use Duhamel's theorem. The treatment embodies extensions to Heavisides methods of circuit analysis, thereby simplifying materially the mathematics of operational methods and giving a clearer insight into the connection between the physics and mathematics of transients. Extensions to Heavisides expansion theorem also are given."
"Calculation of inverter performance and analysis of the circuit apparently have not been treated to any great extent in technical literature. This paper presents a method of calculating in terms of 2 parameters the characteristics of an inverter supplying a pure resistance load, and discusses the various modes of operation, including that in which the direct current supplied to the inverter flows in pulses."
"Quite often the design of a split phase induction motor is such that the so-called quadrature winding is displaced at some angle other than 90 degrees from the main winding, in which event the motor behaves differently when run in opposite directions. It is the purpose of this paper to indicate a method by which the designer can predict the performance of such a motor. While the emphasis is placed upon the capacitor motor, the treatment is applicable also to motors of other types."
"The electrical equipment and performance of an articulated light-weight streamlined Diesel-electric train are described in this paper. Particular attention is given to the control, which provides full utilization of the available engine power for driving the train over a wide range of train speeds. Generators, motors, and auxiliary equipment are considered briefly, and the estimated train performance is given."
"Continued development of the high vacuum tube has played an extremely important part in the development of radio communication. Since the power output of a tube is proportional to the amount of heat that may be dissipated safely from its anode the anode is one of the most vital parts of high vacuum tubes especially those used for transmitting purposes. Several materials have been found suitable for the anodes of transmitting tubes, depending upon the requirements of specific applications and the type of cooling adopted; these materials and their characteristics are discussed in this paper."
"Even though progress in the theory of ferromagnetism still lags far behind experimental progress, advances in theory have been particularly rapid during the past 5 or 10 years. The salient points brought out in these most recent advances are summarized here."
"Recent developments in relay protective schemes, using metallic pilot channels for isolating a transmission line during fault conditions, reduce conditions, considerably the magnitude of the currents which must be handled. Schemes recently developed have many other advantages over the older pilot wire schemes being more economical to install and operate, and having excellent reliability. In addition to the advantages inherent in all pilot schemes, such as high speed tripping and absolute selectivity, the latest schemes provide indication of the condition of the pilot wire circuit at all times."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Research in the several fields intimately involved in improving the formulation and application of electrical insulating materials is continuing with unrelenting efforts. The following summary of some of the current (1934-35) results indicates something of the scope and significance of this work."
"The unexpected magnetic propertis of certain alloys of iron and nickel discovered some 20 years ago led to a thorough study of the entire range of iron-nickel alloys. The results of this study were so encouraging that alloys of these metals with cobalt, the only other ferromagnetic metal, also were studied, as well as various alloys of these metals with small amounts of non-magnetic metals added. From the results of this extended investigation have emerged several alloys that are playing important parts in the continued advancement of electrical communication."
"A volt-time breakdown curve for solid insulation, constructed from test data obtained with the use of square edged electrodes, is given in this paper, considerably extending the range of information available on this subject."
"Methods of segregating the load losses in single phase and capacitor induction motors are presented in this paper. Segregation of losses affords a means for checking the accuracy of input-output tests, and is valuable in comparing motors of various designs."
"Since the original introduction of devices for measuring or rating the wave shape of power system currents and voltages in terms of their influence on exposed telephone circuits, much additional work on this problem has been done, the results of this work are reported in this paper. In part I, a curve of relative interfering effects based upon recent studies is presented, the characteristics of a meter for measuring telephone circuit noise are described, and the results of a comprehensive series of tests on the adequacy of this meter are presented. In part II, a new telephone influence factor weighting curve is presented, and a comparison is given between results obtained by meters embodying weighting networks based upon the new and old curves."
"The results of a series of high voltage breakdown tests between metal electrodes in high vacuum are reviewed, with consideration of the observed inverse relation between cathode gradient at breakdown and gap length. This leads to the conclusion that the current that flows between electrodes as the conditions for high voltage breakdown are approached must involve positive ions from the anode. The deposition of anode material upon the cathode, which would occur in the event of such positive-ion emission, was found to take place. As final proof of this hypothesis, interelectrode current at constant cathode gradient was found to vary with voltage."
"Some notes on the engineering development of electrochemical and electrometallurgical industries are given in this paper, with particular attention to progress of these industries in France. A discussion of the general problem of supplying electric power to these industries is followed by data on the development of certain processes which significantly illustrate ``direct uses'' of electricity in industrial processes. This paper by a distinguished French engineer contains considerable information not readily available in the United States."
"The short circuit test of a salient pole synchronous machine in which rated armature current is being circulated is conventionally used for determining the load loss. In certain cases, it is necessary also to know the load losses when the machine is operated at rated conditions of voltage, current, and power factor. Methods for predetermining the short circuit losses are given in detail in this paper, and the results of calculations are presented. Methods of predetermining the losses under rated conditions are given briefly."
"This paper describes the ``biway'' system of mass transit by continuously moving electrically operated platforms which is cited as being suitable for use in the congested sections of large cities. It is planned to have 2 adjacent moving platforms, one of which operates continuously at a speed of about 15 miles per hour, the other of which varies between standstill and the speed of the continuously moving platform to enable passengers to transfer between the stationary and moving platforms. The biway offers convenience in that it may be boarded at any point on the system and will give a nonstop ride to within a short distance of the destination, greater speed than existing transit methods for short distances, seating capacity up to 60,000 passengers per hour past a given point, and economy of operation by the use of regeneration. Figures given in the paper show that the biway may be less expensive than subways and give better service."
"Steel containing small amounts of silicon has come into wide use as a magnetic core material. In this paper the different grades of silicon steel, and other magnetic materials such as the nickel-iron alloys, are discussed with particular reference to the selection of the most satisfactory alloy for the various applications in communication equipment, which includes transformers for audio frequencies, small rotating apparatus and relays."
"A review of the research work which has been done in the field of magnetics during 1933 and 1934 is contained in the articles and papers referred to in a comprehensive bibliography which has recently been prepared. In this bibliography, which is divided into 31 sections and contains 211 items, publications of all countries are considered. The list should be of considerable value to those interested in magnetics. It is preceded by an introduction which outlines briefly the trends and the developments in magnetics at the present time."
"After a general discussion of the phenomenon of self excitation of a-c machines, a specific case of 3 phase self excitation of a Scherbius machine is treated. Such a machine is used in the regulating set of a variable-ratio frequency converter for inherently constant power transfer, the operating features of which are described. Under certain conditions this converter may be subject to the danger of self excitation. These conditions are discussed in detail and means are indicated to prevent self excitation during the normal operation of this converter."
"The rapidly advancing art of electrical communication and the increasingly wide of its applications have required marked improvements in the transformers used in communication circuits. These improvements, achieved partly through advances in design and partly through improvements in the constituent materials, are discussed in this paper."
"At its plenary meeting of June 1935 at Scheveningen-Bruxelles, the International Electrotechnical Commission unanimously adopted the meter-kilogram-second (mks) or Giorgi system of units, 15 of the 25 constituent countries being represented. In this paper the principal historical antecedents of this action by the I.E.C. are outlined, and its principal import to electrical engineering is indicated. Since the preparation of this paper there have been further important developments in connection with the adoption of this system; reports of these developments, as translated from the original French texts, are given in appendixes I and II."
"The differential analyzer has proved its worth in solving various types of difficult problems, of which the determination of the pull-in characteristics of salient pole synchronous motors is typical; but even with the aid of this device it has been necessary in solving this problem to make several simplifying assumptions. The differential analyzer recently completed at the University of Pennsylvania, however, is sufficiently comprehensive in design so that few assumptions are necessary, and the major electrical transients and mechanical forces may be taken into account. Typical solutions obtained by means of this analyzer are presented herewith, together with practical pulling-into-step criteria."
"With a view to augmenting the meager data available on the discharge currents through lightning arresters on electric power distribution circuits, the investigation reported in this paper, which covered 4 power systems of various voltages and in different sections of the country, was undertaken. Over the range of circuit voltages involved rating seemed to have(4 to 24 kv) voltage on the discharges. More negative than positive discharges were recorded, the ratio increasing as the discharge current increased. The maximum current recorded was 17,000 amperes."
"Data on the results of lightning protection for distribution transformers on the system of the Georgia Power Company have been compiled, to determine the improvement resulting from changes which have been made, particularly the interconnection of the ground leads of the primary arrester with the transformer secondary neutral. The data indicate that such interconnection has not produced all the benefits expected. The experience with lightning protection is presented in an impartial manner, and without attempting to offer a solution of existing problems."
"An electronic device is described for controlling the closing of a relay or switch at a predetermined point on the wave form of an a-c source. Current For closing the relay is controlled by a gas filled triode, the firing of which is obtained by the distorted wave of a multivibrator. The output of the multivibrator is made to change phase with reference to the a-c voltage wave. The device is useful for the study of transients."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"One of the objects of the A.I.E.E. as stipulated in its Constitution is ``the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members.'' To maintain a high individual professional standing, an engineer must keep himself informed of technical advances in his field; in other words, if he expects to advance in his profession his education cannot stop after graduation from an educational institution, but must continue throughout his career. In this, his opening address at the Institute's 1935 winter convention, President Johnson brings clearly and forcefully to the attention of Institute members the many educational activities of the Institute that will help them maintain high professional standing. He urges that members of the Institute ``realize the dependence of their individual professional standing upon their continuing education, and make full use of the opportunities offered by the Institute.'' This address was prepared originally for presentation at a meeting of the Pittsburgh Section of the Institute, and was read before that body by E. C. Stone on January 8, 1935; by request, President Johnson revised and extended it for presentation at the winter convention."
"High speed motion pictures have been found to be extremely useful in studying the motions of various types of mechanisms, especially transient high speed motions. Modern electronic devices have contributed new methods of producing accurately controlled light flashes of extremely high intensity so that now pictures may be taken by reflected light at rates up to several thousands per second."
"A step type voltage regulator for electric power feeders has been designed, built, and tested in service, which is provided with steps so small as to give an operating curve as smooth as can be obtained with the induction regulator has the advantage of lower cost, higher efficiency, lower exciting current, quieter operation, higher impulse strength, and suitability for high voltage applications."
"Double unbalances in 3-phase electric power networks may be analyzed experimentally on the network ``calculating board'' by applying the method of symmetrical components 2 such methods of analysis are presented in this paper. Although intended primarily for use with the a-c calculating board, some of the material is applicable to the d-c board and to the purely mathematical solution of networks."
"In this paper an effective means of controlling and regulating voltage with an external-grid rectifier tube is discussed. Four applications of the basic principles are shown, including a low voltage, wide range control, and primary, distribution voltage automatic regulator. Main features are: instanfaneous response which enables this regulator to be used in such applications as welding with a pulse of only a few cycles, absence of heavy moving parts as well as absence of contacts for load currents, and low cost."
"A series of tests on a circuit breaker of the oil blast type was conducted at the Richmond station of the Philadelphia Electric Company. Particular attention was given to the rate of recovery of voltage following the actual interruption of the circuit. Unusual details in the operation of the cathode ray oscillograph also were worked out. These, and other features of the test, are described in detail in this paper."
"Analyses of cathode ray oscillograms of circuit interruptions reveal characteristics of the circuits that are significant in the study of circuit breaker performance. While a complete analysis of such an oscillogram involves much detailed work, the study of several typical oscillograms reveals the significance of certain types of voltage variations and thus makes possible the analysis of similar oscillograms without detailed measurements. Several oscillograms made on typical laboratory circuits are presented and analyzed in this paper."
"The transient tability of the general 2-machine system is considered in this paper. Introduction of an equivalent system with concentrated inertia at one end is shown to facilitate the direct application of the equal area method of analysis to the general 2-machine system. Heretofore the equal area method has been confined to certain special 2-machine systems."
"The stability characteristics of a typical high voltage transmission circuit have been considered together with the requirements for short-circuit protection, as a basis for the selection and application of relay protective devices. In this paper, the performance of the 132 kv New York Edison-Niagara Hudson interconnection under fault and swing conditions is analyzed, the characteristics of various protective devices are discussed, and the performance of the selected equipment under both calculated and actual operating conditions is given. A protective scheme involving carrier current control is shown to be highly satisfactory."
"Lightning arresters are expected to protect equipment against damage and outage from lightning, and to have an economical life. In order to accomplish these ends effectively, arresters should be able to discharge all surge currents whose probability of occurrence is such that the average life of the arresters will be in an economic balance with their cost. In this paper existing data have been assembled and analyzed in an effort to determine the magnitude of these impulses and the probable frequency of their occurrence."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"By interconnecting and coördinating its private communication facilities with the commercial telephone system, the Tennessee Electric Power Company is building up a comprehensive communication system for the use of all departments of the company. These improved communication facilities are described briefly in this paper. The principal features of the plan are: (1) adequate interconnecting facilities between telephone and power company systems are furnished by the telephone company; (2) telephone equipment retired by the power company is replaced by telephone company equipment; and (3) commercial leased service is considered whenever the power company requires additional facilities."
"To supplement the training of college graduates in the practical application of fundamental principles and mathematics to engineering analysis, the General Electric Company 11 years ago established its ``Advanced Course in Engineering.'' The course of study given and the objectives to be attained are outlined in this paper which also summarizes the practical value of this special 3 year course as indicated by the work of its graduates."
"The application of dimensional analysis to various types of problems in electrical engineering is discussed in this paper for the purpose of stimulating the use of model experiments in solving these problems. The authors hold that this method can be applied to many electrical engineering problems that are difficult of solution otherwise. Criterions for determining whether or not dimensional analysis and model experiments can be used are given."
"Recent developments in a bridge devised at Massachusetts Institute of Technology for obtaining high-precision power-factor measurements on small oil samples, and the associated oil cell, are described in this paper, and the results of measurements on oil samples are discussed. Several conclusions drawn from the work done at M.I.T. on power factor bridges and measurements are given."
"An attempt has been made to devise a different type of wattmeter for measuring power and power factor in a-c circuits such as those found in communication service. An adjustable network has been constructed in such a manner that when it is balanced in 3 operations the power factor is indicated directly and the power can be obtained by a short and simple sliderule calculation."
"Corona discharges from a-c conductors are characterized by marked polarity effects. The most pronounced electrical polarity effect is the sudden burst of negative corona current each cycle, which sets up high frequency oscillations that produce electromagnetic radiation throughout the radio frequency spectrum. Polished and smooth weathered cables produce such radiation only during negative half cycles; mutilated and contaminated conductors produce it during both positive and negative half cycles under some conditions. An experimental investigation of these effects is described in this paper."
"Electrical methods of prospecting are becoming increasingly important as the search for hidden deposits of ore extends deeper and deeper below the surface of the earth. Electrical prospecting is not limited to this use, however; it has found many valuable applications in engineering and in geology. The 4 general methods of electrical prospecting are described briefly in this paper."
"Calculated values of inductance of steel reënforced aluminum cable, presented in this paper, show that previously published values of inductance obtained experimetally are in error by amounts ranging up to 5 per cent. Furthermore, all these errors are on the low side, that is, the unsafe side from the standpoint of the design engineer."
"It is well known that the effects of magnetic saturation are important in modifying the operating characteristics of synchronous machines. In this paper is shown a method of accurately taking into account these effects on the balanced steady-state operation of a cylindrical rotor synchronous machine by using a saturated value of the synchronous reactance. The expression for this reactance. is derived directly from fundamental principles, and its use in calculating machine characteristics accurately is illustrated on a typical steady state stability problem."
"Many applications of ``kilocycle kilowatts'' (electric power at frequencies of 1,000 to 100,000 cycles per second) have not been feasible because of the high cost of equipment for generating such power. In this paper, a new source of kilocycle power employing an electronic tube called the arc tube is described. The cost of the arc tube and its associated equipment is lower than that of other sources of kilocycle power; its frequency is readily adjustable."
"In this paper a circuit is described that holds the average speed of a d-c shunt-wound machine as constant as the standard reference used (for which the most precise standard known can be employed) and holds the instantaneous speed very close to standard speed if there are not sudden changes of load or applied voltage. The machine is positively indexed in phase with respect to the standard. In addition to its precision, the method is characterized by its simplicity and general applicability over a considerable part of the range of d-c machine speed and capacity."
"Calculations of electrical characteristics of coreless induction furnaces usually are made by means of the penetration formula (equation 18 in this paper), this formula, however, gives only an approximation which is fairly accurate only at relatively high frequencies. As a wide range of frequencies can be used in these furnaces, there is a need for calculations that are good at any frequency; to meet this need, the fundamental calculations upon which the penetration formula is based are presented in this paper."
"Sparking under the brushes of commutating machinery has been investigated in considerable detail, for the purpose of studying and analyzing the various factors which cause sparking. Among the conclusions reached are that in a detailed consideration of sparking phenomena both current density and rate of change of current density must be taken into account."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In our present day engineering civilization, is there a logical basis for the thesis that an engineering education is a good preparation for any life work? President Johnson says there is, and in this article gives strong supporting reasons for his contention. He concludes that a broad basic engineering education ``which opens the mind and shows it how nature itself does its work, and teaches it to apply that knowledge through original thinking to the specific problems of one's life work, is a preparation for that life work which has, and in the very nature of things can have, no equal.''"
"A brief résumé of some of the principal features of the Boulder Canyon project is presented herewith. Included in the paper are: (1) a brief review of historical facts leading up to the project; (2) an outline of principal features of the Boulder Dam-Los Angeles power transmission system, which includes a 270-mile 275-kv line; (3) a description of the distributing system in Los Angeles, which this line will feed; and (4) brief discussion of the flood control and water supply features of the project."
"Because of its length, 270 miles, the 275 kv transmission line from Boulder Dam to Los Angeles, Calif., requires extremely high speed switching for stability. To meet the requirements, a high voltage impulse circuit breaker, extending the oil blast theory to cover a multibreak construction with double cross-blast ports, has been built. It provides over-all switching times consistently less then 3 cycles (3/60 second). Approximately 10 per cent as much oil is used as in a comparable breaker of conventional design, and only 1/10 of this is exposed to arcing. Large factors of safety are provided over and above the interrupting rating of 5,000 amperes, 287 kv, or 2,500,000 kva."
"A new instrument, called the surge crest ammeter, based upon the principle of magnetic retentivity has made available a direct and simple method of measuring surge currents. A study of the behavior of 2 magnetic links under the influence of oscillatory surge currents has made this instrument useful in measuring the per cent oscillation as well as crest values of surge currents. Specimen measurements included in this paper show briefly one application of this instrument."
"An extension of the Potier method of testing for armature leakage reactance of synchronous machines is presented in this paper, wherein it is shown that the easily tested for Potier reactance varies considerably and therefore has a limited field of usefulness. It is further shown that if the Potier reactance is measured at high values of field current, the armature leakage reactance is closely approximated and a more valuable test results."
"The causes and mitigation of telephone cable sheath corrosion are dealt with in this paper, which describes particularly a method of applying a counter potential to the cable sheath for the mitigation of corrosion from localized currents. This method, although not new, has had but limited application. It may find extensive future use for controlling corrosion on intercity toll cables, and in localities where street railways have been abandoned. In addition to a unique application of this method, there is also described the method of correcting by current drainage a particularly bad case of corrosion from stray current."
"In its introductory part, this paper explains why the transient speed changes of d-c motors under suddenly applied loads may affect the quality of the product rolled on a continuous rolling mill. In a later section, the paper analyzes the behavior of such motors driving a tandem tube mill, and points out the difference between the transient and the steady-state speed-load characteristics; the former greatly affects the product, while the latter, or the conventional speed regulation, is of only minor importance. The paper outlines the course to follow in choosing the most suitable motors and gives a mathematical study of the transient speed-load changes."
"Definitions of power, power Factor, and related quantities in an a-c circuit have been prepared in an effort to provide definitions which will be generally acceptable. If such general acceptance is obtained, they will be published as a part of the revised report on ``Definitions of Electrical Terms'' which is being prepared by the Sectional Committee on Electrical Definitions. The authors were requested to prepare this paper to give to engineers an understanding of the principles which have guided the preparation of the proposed definitions and to provide opportunity for their discussion. The definitions cover the entire field of single-phase and polyphase circuits. The explanations start with simple circuits and lead to the more complex."
"Instantaneous isolation of faults on transmission and distribution lines is ever a problem of the relay engineer. The use of instantaneous overcurrent relays as applied to the system of the Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company is discussed in this paper. Relays of this type were applied in conjunction with already installed overcurrent time delay relays, giving a form of distance relay protection. Operating results have proved the scheme to be highly satisfactory Economies realized in the better coördination between relays and fuses by using instantaneous relays also are discussed briefly."
"The method for calculation of power flow and bus voltages in a-c networks described in this paper is based upon Kirchhoff's laws, and is novel mainly in that the power losses are lumped at the network terminals in determining power flow. The effect of circuit shunt capacitance is included. Problems in which the ratio of resistance to reactance in all branches is constant, and also problems in which this ratio is not constant are considered. The method can be applied to any a-c network."
"Radial uniformity of oil impregnated paper cable insulation, that is, uniformity in a radial direction from conductor to sheath, is a characteristic of well manufactured cable that is fully as important or more so than longitudinal uniformity. Radial power factor curves for several brands of new cable included in this paper show marked irregularities which are attributed to poorly controlled manufacturing methods. On the basis of such studies, some manufacturers have made efforts to improve the radial uniformity of their insulation with resulting great improvement in quality. This characteristic of cable insulation thus provides a criterion of insulation quality that should be useful to both manufacturer and user."
"A number of examples in which an increased intensity of illumination in industrial establishments resulted in an actual increase in production are cited in this paper. Other results also attributed to adequate lighting are that better work can be done, accidents are reduced, and waste space may be made available for production."
"The value of probability theory in the field of engineering is forcefully brought out in this paper, which explains the fundamentals of the theory, not by the use of mathematics but by the solution of sample problems of types frequently encountered."
"Recent research reported in this paper shows that lubrication of pivot bearings of electric watthour meters is essential for maximum bearing life. The performance of these bearings represents the most important mechanical factor in sustained meter accuracy. The comparatively high rate of wear in a new bearing is found to decrease rapidly with use, finally becoming extremely small. With a well lubricated bearing, the effect of the increased friction resulting from wear on the calibration of the meter is shown to be negligible. A jewel screw of new design, having a large oil reservoir to provide for proper lubrication over a long period of time, also is described."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An improved electrothermic instrument for measuring watts, amperes, or volt-amperes, actuated by the thermal expansion of a liquid in a closed system which includes a Bourdon tube, is described in this paper. The new instrument is not subject to the errors inherent in the bimetallic strip type of electrothermic instrument, it has a linear input-deflection characteristic, and its time period may be adjusted readily to any desired value up to at least 60 minutes."
"The rapid increase in the use of electric power equipment in steel plants in the United States during the last 3 decades is outlined briefly in this paper, and the principal types of apparatus now in use are discussed. Power generation and distribution equipment is considered briefly and the types of electric motors used in different kinds of main mill drives are outlined. Synchronous motor and d-c motors are shown to have largely superseded the use of induction motors."
"An automatic stroboscopic power angle recorder developed to study directly the transient performance of synchronous machines during load disturbances is described in this paper. A portion of the machine under observation is illuminated by stroboscopic light, and its oscillations are recorded directly by a moving-film camera. The operation of the device is made automatic by connecting a suitable relay in its circuit. A typical installation on a hydroelectric generator is described."
"The rapid deceleration of induction motors from relatively high speeds to standstill by the application of constant potential to the terminals is considered in this paper. Applications in which d-c braking of induction motors is desirable are mentioned, and the fundamental principles involved in this method of braking are considered. The characteristics of the speed-torque curve are derived from these principles. The practical application of d-c braking is demonstrated by the results of extensive tests, and a simple means of calculating the approximate values of current and wattage necessary for braking is included."
"Marking a new milestone in the history of the transmission of electric power, the 275 kv system that will transmit power from Boulder Dam to Los Angeles, Calif., embodies many novel engineering features. These features are discussed in this paper. The paper includes not only a description of the line and the terminal equipment and facilities, but also a discussion of the effects of the characteristics of each portion of the system on the performance of the system as a whole. The engineering studies and laboratory research on system stability, corona, high voltage impulses, lightning, conductor vibration, tower stresses, footing uplifts, and other factors are described, and the use of such data in the selection of line voltage conductors, insulation, clamps, lightning protection, towers, and appropriate generating, transforming, and receiving end equipment is shown."
"Time-temperature tests as a means of measuring losses in electrical machines are described in this paper, and some of the results which have been secured with such tests are described. The method consists principally in determining by test the initial slope of the time-temperature curve of some part of the machine, immediately after a steady load is thrown off. In this paper, application to the analysis of losses in turbine generators is described, although the method can be applied to other electrical apparatus."
"The fundamental reactions in accordance with the generally accepted ``double-sulphate'' theory of storage battery charging are comparatively simple. Additional reactions and phenomena, such as gas evolution, acid concentration, heating, and local action are factors which affect charging conditions. Data showing the effects of these factors are given in this paper. The ampere-hour law regarding charging rates is illustrated. Results of constant voltage and modified constant voltage charging are given, and constant voltage floating and trickle charging are discussed. Various means of automatic control for charging batteries in different classes of service are given, some of these schemes involving the use of ampere-hour meters and voltage relays."
"For problems involving induction motors other than the usual balanced winding type operating under steady-state conditions, a general method of analysis is necessary. In this paper, a general analysis is presented, and in particular, its use in short-circuit problems is described. The comparison between tests and calculated results indicates that the method does properly describe induction motor phenomena."
"Actual interruption of an a-c circuit depends upon the ability of the circuit breaker to prevent the re-estabishment of the arc after the current goes through zero and the arc goes out. In some circuits full voltage appears across the contacts as quickly as 40 to 80 microseconds following the current zero. This recovery rate in volts per micro-second depends upon the triple product of: the current interrupted., the normal frequency of the system, and the recovery impedance in ohms of the external circuit. The calculation of circuit recovery rates is given in this paper by presenting in curve and table form the ohmic recovery impedance, and its components, for all the practical circuits found in the field."
"Up to the present, applications of induction generators have been limited, mainly because they must be paralleled with an existing synchronous system to determine their frequency and voltage and to obtain their necessary excitation. The tests described in this paper show that an induction machine may be operated as an independent or isolated generator at a predetermined voltage and frequency, with excellent wave form, by means of capacitive excitation. Further, proper choice and arrangement of the capacitors will result in a practically flat external load-voltage characteristic."
"The effects of magnetic saturation on the various types of reactances used in calculations on synchronous machines are considered in this paper. Saturation factors for the important constants used in transient and unbalanced load calculations are presented in curve form. These data are taken from short-circuit tests on a large number of machines. The saturation factor for transient reactance under conditions encountered in stability calculations is difficult to test directly so the test data are supplemented by theoretical calculations."
"Complex hyperbolic function charts covering the range ordinarily found in problems dealing with long electric power transmission lines are presented herewith. By restricting the charts to this range, it has been possible to draw them to a large scale so that good accuracy can be obtained from these comparatively small charts."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The combination flood control, water conservation, and power development now being constructed on the Colorado River by the federal government represents one of the outstanding engineering achievements of recent years. The dam, which is 726 feet high and 1,180 feet long at the crest, and which contains 3,250,000 cubic yards of concrete, will create a reservoir having a capacity of 30,500,000 acre-feet, a length of 115 miles, and a maximum width about 8 miles. The power plant is designed for an ultimate installation of 15 82,500 kva units and 2 40,000 kva units, making a total ultimate capacity of 1,317,500 kva; 4,330,000,000 kilowatt-hours of firm energy and an average of 1,500,000,000 kilowatt-hours of secondary energy per year will be made available. The principal engineering features of the dam and power plant and appurtenant structures and equipment are described in this paper."
"With several large motors and generators operating in parallel in a system that is coupled very closely electrically, short-circuit currents in d-c steel mill circuits may be as high as several hundred thousand amperes with a rate of rise of from 10 to 20 million amperes per second. Circuit breakers for this service therefore must have high current interrupting capacity and quick response. In this paper the circuit breakers and associated equipment for a typical modern strip mill are described. The circuit breakers are tripped not only by overload current, but also by current having too high a rate of rise."
"The unequal distribution of voltage in rotating machine multiturn coils caused by switching transients, and means for alleviating the stresses occasioned by these transients are discussed in this paper. A brief description also is given of field measurements of switching transients and of tests to determine the effectiveness of capacitors as a protection against switching transients. It is shown that capacitors connected between each phase and ground near the machine terminals gives effective protection."
"Three unusual types of behavior of insulating oils have been subjected to a series of experiments which indicate that all 3 are closely related. These types of behavior are the reduction of conductivity and a-c dielectric loss following a sustained application of continuous potential (called ``d-c cleanup''), the current-time relation under continuous potential and the unequal potential distribution under continuous stress due to the accumulation of space charges toward the electrodes. Theories regarding a common cause of these different types of behavior are drawn from the experiments."
"A decision as to when and how an electric power plant should be rehabilitated is largely a matter of judgment. In deciding to begin rehabilitation of the Connors Creek plant in 1933, the engineers of the Detroit Edison Company gave careful consideration to many factors including obsolescence of equipment, expected load growth, and general economic conditions. In deciding to rehabilitate the plant by replacing the boilers and generating units, they studied carefully such factors as the better heat rate obtainable with new equipment, the possibility of salvaging parts of the old plant, operating and maintenance costs, and reliability. This rehabilitation program is scheduled to be carried out in 4 major steps, the first of which will be completed during 1935. The process of reasoning followed in the development of this program and the principal results obtained and anticipated are outlined in this paper."
"Protection of life and property may be secured by electrical signaling systems which have been developed to give protection against damage to property by fire, burglary, and other causes, and to supervise the activities of night watchmen and the operation of different types of mechanical equipment, and to perform other services. This paper consists of a general outline of the types of service available and the electrical systems for accomplishing them."
"Recent developments in mica tape insulation and stator winding construction for a-c rotating machines of large capacity wound for standard and appreciably higher than standard voltages are considered in this paper. Methods of improving composite mica tape insulation are discussed and the advantages of graded insulation are considered. Two types of windings for graded insulation are proposed for 33,000 volt machines. Special designs involving the insulation and construction of the end windings are presented, and methods of avoiding corona in the end winding zone are analyzed."
"Design and operation of the Charles R. Huntley station No. 2 in Buffalo, N. Y., largest 60-cycle steam-electric generating station on the Niagara-Hudson System, are discussed in this paper. As the plant and its associated electric energy delivery system replaced rather than supplemented an existing system, the basic design problems of the plant could be solved in a manner entirely consistent with the modern state of the art. Outstanding features of the plant are its split bus system, compact and flexible electrical layout, all-electrical auxiliary drives supplied at a single voltage, slag tap furnaces, and automatic furnace lighters; no coal is stored in the station building. Excellent results have been obtained by direct firing with pulverized coal and good over-all economy has been achieved under adverse load conditions."
"Manually operated resistance type metal heaters, which heat the metal by passing current directly through it, have been in use for several years. Automatic machines of this type have now become practical due to the development of photoelectric temperature control. Results with photoelectric control are shown to be highly satisfactory."
"Sphere gaps may be used for measuring very high voltages by holding them at a separation greater than spark-over distance, and measuring the force between them. The voltage may then be calculated easily and accurately from well known electrostatic principles. Among the advantages of this type of measurement over the conventional spark-over methods are: no corrections are necessary for air temperature, humidity, and pressure; effective voltage values are given; measurements are not erratic; and numerous difficulties in taking measurements are avoided."
"Automatic screw-down equipment recently built for a 3-high roughing sheet bar mill represents one of the most recent advances in steel mill control equipment. This equipment, together with other control equipment designed for this mill and a semiautomatic Screw-down control recently installed on another 3-high roughing mill, is described here."
"Some of the results obtained and the conclusions reached in a study of the current at the end of any section of a nondissipative artificial line terminated at one end at midseries position by a physically realizable resistance and excited at the other end at midseries position by a unit continuous voltage are presented briefly herewith. This paper is a condensed version of a longer paper* on file in the Engineering Societies Library."
"An automatic voltage regulator for an alternator consists essentially of a voltage sensitive element which controls, through suitable apparatus, the excitation of an alternator. In the voltage regulator described herein, the voltage sensitive element is a nonlinear bridge circuit. Its output controls, through a phase shifting circuit, a grid-controlled mercury-vapor tube, the output of which is fed into the field circuit of the alternator. The phase shifting circuit employs a fixed condenser and a variable resistance, the latter being obtained from 2 3-electrode vacuum tubes whose grids are controlled by the nonlinear bridge circuit. The regulator is rugged in construction and at constant frequency provides close regulation without apparent hunting or voltage distortion."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue of Transactions of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"What is the structure of the electrical engineering profession? What are the chief branches of the profession recognized today, and relatively how many engineers are engaged primarily in each branch? What are the relationships of each branch to the other special branches? In an effort to clarify these questions, a quantitative study has been made of the membership of the A.I.E.E. and is reported herewith. On the basis of his findings, Dean Hoover makes several recommendations for improving the nomenclature of electrical engineers. Discussion is invited."
"Armature leakage reactance of synchronous machines has recently received considerable attention because of the important part which it plays in the accurate calculation of the performance of the saturated machine. (See, for example, reference 15 at end of this paper.) Test methods for determining the proper values of armature leakage reactance, and the results of these tests, are presented in this paper and should be of interest as an indication of the reliability of the formulas for the unsaturated value of this reactance and also as an indication of the variations in the reactance due to machine saturation. This paper is a companion paper to ``Tests on Armature Resistance of Synchronous Machines'' appearing on pages 705-9 of this issue."
"Armature resistance of synchronous machines, although usually disregarded when making torque-angle and excitation calculations, must be taken into account when making an accurate analysis. Values of armature resistance obtained in a series of tests are presented in this paper, which is a companion paper to ``Test Values of Armature Leakage Reactance'' in this issue, pages 700-5. Discussion of test methods, the effect of pole form on losses, and the use of effective armature resistance in determining the vector diagram of the machine are included herein."
"Tables of complete elliptic integrals of the first kind for large moduli are presented in this paper. While elliptic integrals are used in various kinds of engineering work, these tables are particularly useful in calculating mutual and self-inductances of cylindrical coils."
"In localities where hydroelectric power is abundant and steam loads are readily available, the production of steam from electric energy has proved to be a highly satisfactory means of utilizing surplus and off-peak power. This method of producing steam is particularly advantageous where cleanliness is important and in small establishments having intermittent demand for steam. Although the production of steam by this method has had a wider application in Canada, where the total installed capacity of such equipment exceeds 1,500,000 kw, numerous installations, totalling about 200,000 kw, also have been made in the United States. The design and operation of the principal types of equipment used for this purpose are discussed in this paper."
"A simple and accurate method is described for compiling stringing charts for overhead transmission lines, for either horizontal or inclined spans. All calculations can be carried out with a 20 inch slide rule, and no tables of functions are required other than those included in this paper. The procedure is the same for horizontal and for oblique spans. Moreover, no loss of accuracy is suffered as the inclination of the span is increased. The final result is obtained by means of a graphical solution which, in principle, is based upon the Thomas chart."
"Methods of steady state power calculation developed specifically for: (1) systems having more machines than can be handled conveniently by existing methods; and (2) systems consisting of a line with magnetically saturated synchronous machines at both ends are outlined in this paper. Two general methods are given: (1) that involving the use of equivalent reactance or impedance, and (2) that involving the superposition or current diagrams. Methods of determining the equivalent reactance and impedance of any unknown system from measurements at the terminals of that system, whether magnetically saturated or not, also are given. When a complete solution is desired, superposition of current diagrams of saturated circuits is shown to be better than the method involving the use of either equivalent reactance or impedance."
"The board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents here-with to the membership its fifty-first annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1935. A general balance sheet showing the condition of the Institute's finances on April 30, 1935, together with other detailed financial statements, is included herein. This report contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"During the 3 years following the discovery of heavy hydrogen in the latter part of 1931, 4 additional elementary particles of matter lighter than the alpha particle (nucleus of the ordinary helium atom) have been discovered where only 2 were known previously. This is considered extraordinary even for the present rapid pace of physics which sometimes requires physicists to revise their fundamental concepts of matter almost overnight. These 5 newly discovered particles formed the subject matter of a highly interesting and instructive address delivered recently by Doctor Darrow at a meeting of the Institute's New York Section; the essential substance of this illuminating address is presented herewith."
"By applying the results of insulation research to factory equipment and procedures, manufacturers of oil-impregnated paper-insulated cables for electric power transmission and distribution have been able to effect marked improvements in their products. By following and taking advantage of these improvements as they develop, users of cable have been able not only to obtain more satisfactory operating results, but also to effect substantial savings. Some of the more recent achievements in insulation research and their practical applications are outlined briefly in this paper."
"The radiotelephone communication system that links the 5 major islands of Hawaii and some of the engineering problems involved in developing it form the subject matter of this paper. This system, which has been in successful operation for more than 3 years, operates on frequencies between 30 and 60 megacycles per second, although in April 1935, an experimental circuit operating on 220/230 megacycles was placed in service. The successful operation of this system has shown that ultra-high frequencies are well suited to short quasi-optical ranges and that reliable semi-nonattended radiotelephone services are practicable."
"Telephone communication to and from harbor craft in the Puget Sound area in the State of Washington is accomplished by means of low powered radiotelephone channels from each boat to a single land station from which connections can be made to any telephone; the equipment used for this purpose is described here. A 400 watt transmitter is used in the land station and a 50 watt transmitter on each boat. Frequencies used are 2,522 kilocycles for the shore-to-ship direction, and 2,126 kilocycles for the ship-to-shore direction."
"Nonuniform load growth, which sometimes results in excessive voltage drops in various parts of an electric power distribution system, caused engineers to consider extending the installation of voltage regulating devices to portions of the system beyond the station. As a result, several supplementary devices have been developed for use in distribution circuits between station and load. These devices and their applications are discussed in this paper."
"A review of available data on the magnitude and effects of lightning stroke currents, supplemented by laboratory experiments to check these effects, is presented here-with. Maximum currents of 150,000 to 200,000 amperes having durations of from 40 to 100 microseconds are indicated."
"A review of the literature describing research investigations in the field of radio communication, published in the United States and other countries during the past year and more, indicates the progress being made in this field. For each of the 5 principal classifications into which radio communication research is found to be divided, a summary of recent progress is included as part of this article, and a bibliography totaling 104 items gives reference to the principal articles in these 5 divisions."
"Tests have been made to determine the increase in corona losses on a high voltage transmission line, due to the grounding of one of the conductors. The corona losses under this condition of operation, which may occur on a transmission system not having the neutral solidly grounded, are shown to be considerably increased over the more usual operation with all 3 conductors at the same voltage. This corona loss may increase the in-phase component of current, with a consequent effect on the operation of Petersen coils. The conductors of the line used in these tests were hollow copper conductors composed of interlocking segments."
"By means of coupling capacitors connected to high voltage power transmission lines, high frequency carrier currents in different frequency channels may be transmitted over the power lines for supplementary services such as relaying, control, and communication. A new design of coupling capacitor has been made which, by combining 1, 2, 3, or 4 units in series, may be used on 69, 138, 230, or 287 kv circuits. Capacitors of the latter rating are being used on the Boulder Dam line of the city of Los Angeles."
"Vacuum tube oscillators for radio frequency signals above 25 megacycles may be controlled with a high degree of precision by resonant lines, and at lower frequencies may be used to obtain a larger power output than is obtainable from crystal oscillators. The general principles of the design of concentric conductor lines and means for compensating temperature changes are discussed in this paper. Line controlled oscillators may be used with frequency Multipliers, or to control oscillators at lower frequencies."
"Consideration of the factors involved in radio interference field strength measurements indicates that the effective values measured by conventional methods are inadequate for describing the interfering effect of the disturbing radiation. The instrument described in this paper provides a means for measuring with acceptable accuracy both crest and effective values of interference field strength the ratio of which interference field strength, the ratio of which agrees with observed discrepancies between effective and apparent values."
"Recent developments in internal combustion engines have provided a source of mobile motive power for railroads which has shown economies over steam operation in some classes of service. The continuing development of Diesel engines gives promise of their further substitution for steam power, but in the application of this unit, performance characteristics must be considered carefully. The recently developed ``streamlined'' Diesel electric trains are rather limited in application, but the Diesel engine has an immediate field of application in switching and transfer locomotives. Electrical transmission of power from the Diesel engine to the driving wheels of a train has advantages which make it preferable to any other type of transmission as yet developed."
"Measurements of time lag of spark-over of small sphere gaps at 3,820 volts were made with an instrument developed specifically for the purpose. Spark lags were found to fall into 3 distinct domains: 1 of relatively long initiatory lags of random distribution, and 2 of definite formative lags of different orders of magnitude corresponding to 2 different spark-over mechanisms. The controlling conditions which determine into which domain the spark lag will fall are given. The manner in which this lag may obscure the sparking voltage of the gap is pointed out and a remedial specification suggested. The results are applicable to larger sphere gaps and higher voltages."
"Following is the full text of an address presented at the A.I.E.E. summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24-28, 1935, and prepared at the request of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, in order that the membership might be more fully informed concerning engineers' registration and the related problems of the profession, and may determine to what extent the arguments for registration apply to electrical engineers, whether engaged in practice for themselves or employed by others, and whether engaged on private or public work."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Of the many fields of activity open to the young electrical engineer, one of the most fascinating and abundant in opportunities for important developments is that of industrial electrochemistry. A survey of the recent advances which have been made in this field shows the striking wealth of new products and new processes, many of these being of great commercial value. For the future, opportunities for the engineer to make new discoveries are even greater."
"The determination of speed-time curves and current-time curves as related to the duty cycles of electric railway motors may be greatly simplified by the use of an electrograph which has been developed, thereby making unnecessary the usual calculations which require considerable time. In this machine, the curves are drawn on an oscillograph screen. The equipment, which can also be used to obtain other characteristics, depends for its operation upon the similarity of equations in the mechanics of train movement and those involved in the electrograph circuit."
"Mid-taps on the secondaries of a 3-phase delta-connected transformer bank enable loads to be supplied simultaneously at full voltage and half voltage. Although the nonuniform loading of the different windings makes an exact determination of the maximum permissible loads difficult, equations tions and curves have been developed to facilitate these calculations. A rating factor is included which permits the rating of the transformer bank to be expressed in terms of the maximum current in any portion of the windings. Equations for voltage regulation with balanced loads and similar transformer units have been developed."
"Continuing an investigation of lightning effects on power transmission lines, a recent study confirms previously reached conclusions as to the effectiveness of overhead and buried ground wires. Also, direct stroke surge currents of from 2,000 to 100,000 amperes in tower structures were measured with the surge crest ammeter, and total stroke currents up to 220,000 amperes were indicated. Values for the rate of build-up of direct stroke currents and values of potentials in the tower were obtained. Negative polarity clouds were found to be the source of almost all direct strokes."
"The time interval required for ignition or \"firing\" of an igniter type of rectifier tube is found to vary in a statistically systematic manner between successive operations. When in continuous operation with igniter rod potential gradients greater than a critical value the median firing time is an inverse exponential function of the gradient in the rod. If the gradient be reduced gradually below the critical value the firing time rapidly approaches infinity, corresponding to failure to ignite at all. Temperature rise of the rod caused by continuous operation of the tube results in a marked reduction in resistance, critical gradient, and median firing time."
"Design and operating features of a multiharmonic electrostatic audio frequency generator are described in this paper. The harmonics are generated singly by the rotation of a shielded segmented disk adjacent to a stationary wave pattern plate; the resulting changes in capacitance between disk and plate produce a sinusoidal charging and discharging current through an input resistance of a vacuum tube amplifire. Each harmonic is controlled independently in amplitude and in phase, and provisions are made for combining any 2 or more harmonics to obtain complex wave forms. Although designed specifically for psychological tests, the device should prove useful in any work requiring a flexible audio frequency supply of small capacity."
"The effect of ultraviolet light upon the breakdown voltage of sphere gaps subjected to impulse voltages is considered in this paper. It is shown that, especially for the smaller gaps and corresponding lower voltages, more accurate voltage measurements result when ultraviolet light is used. Photoelectric emission from the surface of the spheres is believed to be the cause of the improved accuracy. Without ultraviolet light, variations in the number of free electrons afect the result."
"In presenting the results of his studies of the magnetic field in and near the conductors of electrical machinery, the author seeks to fill the gap existing between the present accurate but difficult methods and the easier but less accurate methods of drawing and calculating these fields."
"Television is being actively promoted in several European countries, principally Great Britain and Germany. In order to make available to individuals in the United States the present status of television in Europe, the U. S. Department of Commerce sent Andrew W. Cruse on a 2 months' study of television developments in England, Germany, and France. The article which follows is based upon an address delivered by Mr. Cruse upon his return."
"Engineers often find it convenient to be able to determine the various currents and voltages in an electrical system not merely for one fixed condition, but for any value of any impedance element from zero to infinity. In an effort to facilitate such computations, the method presented in this paper has been developed. Although the method as presented is applied specifically to the star-star (Y-Y) circuit, the treatment is said to be applicable also to other circuits. All voltages and currents in this circuit are shown to follow circular loci when any self-impedance is varied; these loci are determined by the use of a circle in the form of a linear fractional transformation. The practical application of the method is illustrated by numerical examples."
"The analysis of wave forms in circuits containing rectifier is in reality a study of transient conditions which repeat cyclically. This paper presents a method of solution for such circuits by means of Fourier series, assuming initially a perfect rectifier with sinusoidal applied voltage. It shows, for cases in which the rectifier conducts current continuously, that the curve of voltage output from rectifier to d-c load consists of sinusoidal segments, and that the series for this voltage can be used, term by term, to find the current series. In some circuits the rectifier conducts current for only a portion of the cycle; in such cases the voltage curve consists of sinusoidal parts joined by sections of other forms. Wave forms are found by computation for several typical circuits, and verified by oscillograms."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners has recommended the following list of members (presented herein) for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Presents abstracts of selected recently published engineering books."
"This paper describes the new and large hot-cathode mercury-vapor rectifier tube that is used in the plate power rectifier of the Crosley (WLW) 500-kilowatt broadcast transmitter. Design features resulting in improved operation of mercury-vapor tubes are discussed together with the operating characteristics. An analysis of the advantages of the unit half-wave type of rectifier tube is made."
"The work described in a previous paper1 is extended and revised. An alternative method of solving the fundamental equation is presented. Application to the positive grid oscillator is treated and oscillation criteria in general are discussed."
"This method is essentially a means for continuously measuring the percentage of elapsed time during which the noise level exceeds a certain predetermined voltage level. The predetermined voltage level may be made any level at which data are desired. The device consists of a biased tube circuit such that when input signal exceeds a certain level, the output tube passes a normal value of plate current through a ballistic meter of slow period. If the input continuously exceeds the threshold level, the ballistic meter reads “100 per cent.” The data obtained are particularly useful in connection with the engineering of short-wave radiotelegraph circuits, since these are usually operated through vacuum tube relay devices at the receiving end, set to register normal output whenever1 the signal “marks” at any level above a controllable threshold value."
"It is shown that a meteor of average velocity has enough energy to cause ionization of atmospheric gases by impact. Recent experimental work by Frische and others on collisions of ions is interpreted as supporting the hypothesis that meteoric collisions do result in ionization. The afterglow of nitrogen is considered as a possible example of the process by which a meteor train remains glowing for a period of minutes and the coincidence of the region in which such trains are generally observed and of the E region of the upper atmosphere is pointed out. The spectra of bright meteors, while not showing atmospheric lines, are shown not to be inconsistent with the above hypothesis. The behavior of the transatlantic short-wave radio telephone circuits of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, during 1930, 1931, and 1932, is examined for possible meteoric effects. It is concluded that, in general, a rather large shower is necessary to affect them appreciably. This was to be expected since these circuits are normally under a continuous bombardment by random meteors. It seems possible that a certain degree of the variability (rapid fading, etc.) of received signals over such paths is due to this bombardment. Results of radio pulse studies of the upper atmosphere, particularly by Schafer and Goodall, which are strongly suggestive of meteoric ionization, especially at times of special meteoric activity, are (1) sudden increases in ionizaton in the E region lasting for a period of minutes or less, and (2) increases of longer duration with maxima coincident in time with those of observed meteoric activity. Such tests made during the Leonid shower of November, 1932, were successful in correlating sudden increases in ionization in the E region with the visual observations of a number of bright meteors passing overhead. For the brightest meteor observed, the ionization increased to a value in excess of summer noon conditions. It is pointed out that meteoric showers might take place in the F region which would be unobservable by ordinary visual means. Taking into account the energy spent by the meteor in ionization, a mass for the brightest meteor, for which correlative data was obtained is roughly calculated to be 0.3 gram. Its estimated brightness was −1 magnitude. The recombination coefficient at the height of the E region is calculated from the rate of decrease of ionization after the passage of a meteor, to be less than 0.2 × 10−8 cubic centimeters per second."
"The complex impedance of a vertical half-wave antenna located any distance above an earth of given conductivity and dielectric constant is calculated by the “induced electromotive force” method. Based on the assumption k0≪ |k| (where k0 and k are the wave numbers for the atmosphere and earthy respectively), the results are applicable down to about 10 meters for any earth except a very dry soil. The calculation is based on the Sommerfeld-von Hoerschlemann expression for the field of a dipole above a half space of arbitrary electrical character. After splitting the total impedance into three parts, Z = Z1 + Z2 + Z3, the component Z1 is shown to be the self-impedance of the antenna, Z2 the mutual impedance between the antenna and its perfect image, and Z3 an impedance component due to the finite conductivity of the earth. Z3 is found to be proportional to two factors, one of which depends on the conductivity and dielectric coefficient of the earth and the wavelength and the other of which depends only on the ratio h/λ, where h = antenna height and λ = wavelength. Z3 is put in a form suitable for the computation of any given case and curves are shown for four typical examples. For λ > 10 meters and all except very dry soil, the effect of the finite conductivity is quite small and the assumption, often made, of a perfectly reflecting earth thus is justified for a large number of cases. The impedance is, except for very short waves or exceedingly dry soil, substantially that obtained for a perfectly conducting earth. A principle of similitude is stated, in which two antennas over the same kind of earth and having equal values of h/λ have identical impedances."
"This paper deals with various electrical magnitudes involved in the process of radiation from an ordinary antenna. The calculations presented are based on the simplified assumptions of a highly conducting earth and a sinusoidal distribution of antenna current. Also, they neglect any components of the near-by field that may be associated with the flat top. The paper is divided into four main parts and an appendix. In the first party the relative magnitudes and phases of earth currents associated with radiation from antennas of four representative proportions are calculated. The results are shown in Figs. 3 and 4. In the second party both the displacement current density and the electric intensity are studied quantitatively. The results are shown in Fig. 5. The third part consists of an experimental verification of the calculated magnetic flux near an antenna. The agreement is evident from Fig. 6. In the last section, the theory is applied to a simple half-wave antenna with a view to localizing the earth losses. These are found to be greatest at a distance from the base of the antenna of 0.35λ. This is indicated by Fig. 7. An appendix points out the magnitude of error in neglecting components of the near-by field associated with the fiat top."
"Copies of the publications listed on this page may be obtained without charge by addressing the publishers."
"Born October 25, 1903, at Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Received B.S. degree in electrical engineering, Louisiana State University, 1926; law student, Louisiana State University, 1926–1927; M.S. degree in electrical engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1929; D.C. degree in physics, Technische Hochschule, Munich, Germany, 1931. Assistant, electrical engineering department, Louisiana State University, 1925–1926; instructor, communications division, electrical engineering department, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1928–1929; Redfield Proctor Fellow in physics, Technische Hochschule, Munich, 1929–1931; research and instructor, communications division, Round Hill, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1931 to date. Associate member, Institute of Radio Engineers, 1928."
"The February meeting of the Board of Directors was held on the 6th at the Institute office and those present were Stuart Ballantine, president; Melville Eastham, treasurer; O. H. Caldwell, Alfred N. Goldsmith, Virgil M. Graham, R. A. Heising, C. M. Jansky, Jr., F. A. Kolster, George Lewis, E. L. Nelson, Haraden Pratt, H. M. Turner, A. F. Van Dyck, L. E. Whittemore, William Wilson, and H. P. West-man, secretary."
"THIS annual report by the secretary is published for the information of the membership and covers the more important matters concerning Institute operation during 1934."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Principal engineering features of 3 large modern electric power generating stations are discussed in 3 papers appearing in this issue. In the first, the Boulder Dam hydroelectric, plant now being constructed by the federal government on the Colorado River is described. This plant, half of which is in Arizona and half in Nevada, will have an ultimate capacity of 1,317,500 kva (pages 583–94). The second paper describes the Huntley station No. 2, largest 60-cycle steam-electric generating station of the Niagara-Hudson system and a thoroughly modern plant (pages 632–45). In the third paper, the rehabilitation program for the Connors Creek plant in Detroit, Mich., is outlined. This paper should be of particular interest to engineers of power companies still operating obsolete or obsolescent equipment (pages 610–17)."
"The combination flood control, water conservation, and power development now being constructed on the Colorado River by the federal government represents one of the outstanding engineering achievements of recent years. The dam, which is 726 feet high and 1,180 feet long at the crest, and which contains 3,250,000 cubic yards of concrete, will create a reservoir having a capacity of 30,500,000 acre-feet, a length of 115 miles, and a maximum width of about 8 miles. The power plant is designed for an ultimate installation of 15 82,500 kva units and 2 40,000 kva units, making a total ultimate capacity of 1,317,500 kva; 4,330,000,000 kilowatt-hours of firm energy and an average of 1,500,000,000 kilowatt-hours of secondary energy per year will be made available. The principal engineering features of the dam and power plant and appurtenant structures and equipment are described in this paper."
"With several large motors and generators operating in parallel in a system that is coupled very closely electrically, short-circuit currents in d-c steel mill circuits may be as high as several hundred thousand amperes with a rate of rise of from 10 to 20 million amperes per second. Circuit breakers for this service therefore must have high current interrupting capacity and quick response. In this paper the circuit breakers and associated equipment for a typical modern strip mill are described. The circuit breakers are tripped not only by overload current, but also by current having too high a rate of rise."
"The unequal distribution of voltage in rotating machine multiturn coils caused by switching transients, and means for alleviating the stresses occasioned by these transients, are discussed in this paper. A brief description also is given of field measurements of switching transients and of tests to determine the effectiveness of capacitors as a protection against switching transients. It is shown that capacitors connected between each phase and ground near the machine terminals gives effective protection."
"Three unusual types of behavior of insulating oils have been subjected to a series of experiments which indicate that all 3 are closely related. These types of behavior are the reduction of conductivity and a-c dielectric loss following a sustained application of continuous potential (called “d-c cleanup”), the current-time relation under continuous potential, and the unequal potential distribution under continuous stress due to the accumulation of space charges toward the electrodes. Theories regarding a common cause of these different types of behavior are drawn from the experiments."
"A decision as to when and how an electric power plant should be rehabilitated is largely a matter of judgment. In deciding to begin rehabilitation of the Connors Creek plant in 1933, the engineers of the Detroit Edison Company gave careful consideration to many factors including obsolescence of equipment, expected load growth, and general economic conditions. In deciding to rehabilitate the plant by replacing the boilers and generating units, they studied carefully such factors as the better heat rate obtainable with new equipment, the possibility of salvaging parts of the old plant, operating and maintenance costs, and reliability. This rehabilitation program is scheduled to be carried out in 4 major steps, the first of which will be completed during 1935. The process of reasoning followed in the development of this program and the principal results obtained and anticipated are outlined in this paper."
"Protection of life and property may be secured by electrical signaling systems which have been developed to give protection against damage to property by fire, burglary, and other causes, and to supervise the activities of night watchmen and the operation of different types of mechanical equipment, and to perform other services. This paper consists of a general outline of the types of service available and the electrical systems for accomplishing them."
"Recent developments in mica tape insulation and stator winding construction (or a-c rotating machines of large capacity wound for standard and appreciably higher than standard voltages are considered in this paper. Methods of improving composite mica tape insulation are discussed and the advantages of graded insulation are considered. Two types of windings for graded insulation are proposed for 33,000 volt machines. Special designs involving the insulation and construction of the end windings are presented, and methods of avoiding corona in the end winding zone are analyzed."
"Design and operation of the Charles R. Huntley station No. 2 in Buffalo, N. Y., largest 60-cycle steam-electric generating station on the Niagara-Hudson System, are discussed in this paper. As the plant and its associated electric energy delivery system replaced rather than supplemented an existing system, the basic design problems of the plant could be solved in a manner entirely consistent with the modern state of the art. Outstanding features of the plant are its split bus system, compact and flexible electrical layout, all-electrical auxiliary drives supplied at a single voltage, slag tap furnaces, and automatic furnace lighters; no coal is stored in the station building. Excellent results have been obtained by direct firing with pulverized coal and good over-all economy has been achieved under adverse load conditions."
"Manually operated resistance type metal heaters, which heat the metal by passing current directly through it, have been in use for several years. Automatic machines of this type have now become practical due to the development of photoelectric temperature control. Results with photoelectric control are shown to be highly satisfactory."
"Sphere gaps may be used for measuring very high voltages by holding them at a separation greater than spark-over distance, and measuring the Force between them. The voltage may then be calculated easily and accurately from well known electrostatic principles. Among the advantages of this type of measurement over the conventional spark-over methods are: no corrections are necessary for air temperature, humidity, and pressure; effective voltage values are given; measurements are not erratic; and numerous difficulties in taking measurements are avoided."
"Automatic screw-down equipment recently built (or a 3-high roughing sheet bar mill represents one of the most recent advances in steel mill control equipment. This equipment, together with other control equipment designed for this mill and a semiautomatic screw-down control recently installed on another 3-high roughing mill, is described here."
"Some of the results obtained and the conclusions reached in a study of the current at the end of any section of a nondissipative artificial line terminated at one end at mid-series position by a physically realizable resistance and excited at the other end at midseries position by a unit continuous voltage are presented briefly herewith. This paper is a condensed version of a longer paper∗ on file in the Engineering Societies Library."
"An automatic voltage regulator for an alternator consists essentially of a voltage sensitive element which controls, through suitable apparatus, the excitation of an alternator. In the voltage regulator described herein, the voltage sensitive element is a nonlinear bridge circuit. Its output controls, through a phase shifting circuit, a grid-controlled mercury-vapor tube, the output of which is fed into the field circuit of the alternator. The phase shifting circuit employs a fixed condenser and a variable resistance, the latter being obtained from 2 3-electrode vacuum tubes whose grids are controlled by the nonlinear bridge circuit. The regulator is rugged in construction and at constant frequency provides close regulation without apparent hunting or voltage distortion."
"The fifty-first annual summer convention of the Institute, which will be held on the campus of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, 1935, promises to be an outstanding affair. The summer convention committee, under the chairmanship of R. F. Chamberlain, has arranged an excellent program combining sports, recreation, and social functions with an enlarged technical program consisting of 10 sessions and in addition a number of informal technical conferences. The splendid facilities which the university affords have made it possible to offer members and guests these features at a very reasonable cost, and a large attendance is anticipated. Headquarters will be in Willard Straight Hall."
"The South West District's fifth District meeting, held in Oklahoma City, Okla., April 24–26, 1935, under the sponsorship of the Oklahoma City Section, established a new record for the District in total registration. The total registration of 571 not only topped the District's previous record of 541 set in 1929 at Dallas, Texas, but set a figure that in the history of the 30 Institute District meetings held since 1924 has been exceeded by only 3 other Districts, each of which has an Institute membership ranging from 230 to 490 per cent of the Institute membership in District 7. In point of average District meeting attendance as compared to District membership, District 7 now leads all Districts. Substantial delegations were present from each of the 6 Sections and 14 Student Branches in the District. Registration figures are given in an accompanying tabulation."
"A SPECIAL committee on the question of sponsoring discussions on social and economic subjects was created by the Institute's board of directors in 1934. This committee, under the chairmanship of A. W. Berresford, past-president of the Institute, recently completed its report, and this report was approved by the board of directors at its meeting of May 21, 1935. The full text of the report, dated May 10, 1935, follows:"
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., on May 20, 1935."
"FOLLOWING the plan established in 1933, of publishing the annual report on Section and Branch activities in Electrical Engineering instead of in pamphlet form, the report for the fiscal year which ended April 30, 1935, is presented here. Similar information for the fiscal year which ended April 30, 1933, was published in Electrical Engineering for June 1933, pages 726–8, and for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1934, in Electrical Engineering for June 1934, pages 1027–9."
"WHAT are the professional engineering societies doing to advance the profession and practice of engineering in the interest of professional advancement and of effective service to American business and industry?"
"FOUR national prizes for papers presented during the calendar year 1934 have been announced by the committee on award of Institute prizes, which consists of R. N. Conwell (A'15, F'31) chairman, C. O. Bickelhaupt (M'22, F'28), and F. M. Farmer (A'02, F'13). These prizes in each case consist of a suitable certificate. Personal presentation of the prizes will take place at the opening session of the Institute's summer convention to be held on the campus of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–29, 1935."
"WHEN does an engineer's education end? With his graduation from college? Or is further self-development necessary to enable the junior engineer to take responsible charge of engineering work, become a valuable member of society, and gain professional recognition?"
"SUFFICIENT interest has been exhibited in the investigation of engineering education that was carried on for several years by the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, to warrant calling attention of members of the Institute to the availability of the published report on this investigation. The investigation was “directed to a study of the objects of engineering education and of the fitness of the present day curriculum for preparing the student for his profession.” The main investigation was carried on during the period from 1923 to 1929, with further investigation of particular phases extending to 1934."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely."
"V. J. F. Brain (A'22, M'32, and local honorary secretary) chief electrical engineer, Department of Public Works, Sydney, Australia, has been installed as chairman of the Sydney division of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Australia. Mr. Brain graduated from Sydney University in 1922, after which he came to the United States, where he was connected with the General Electric Company at Schenectady. N. Y., and for a short time with the Alabama Power Company. In 1925 he entered the New York Edison Company, New York, N. Y., as assistant engineer in the electrical engineering department, where he remained until 1929, when he was appointed to his present position. Mr. Brain was a member of the Institute's committee on protective devices during 1928–29."
"Franklin Washington Wood (A'05, M'20) marine electrical engineer, Great Neck, N. Y., died April 18, 1935. He was born at London, England, January 2, 1870. In 1887, 2 years after coming to America, he became associated with Chas. Cory and Son, Inc., manufacturers of marine signaling and intercommunicating equipment in New York, N. Y. During the period 1895 to 1907 Mr. Wood was engineer in charge of construction and installation work for them at Newport News, Va., after which he was appointed chief engineer with offices at New. York. In 1914 he became vice president of the company, and in 1920 went to England as European representative, but because of ill health retired in 1926, although he maintained his interest in the industry. He returned to the United States in 1933, and accepted a position as consulting engineer for Chas. J. Henschel and Company, Inc., Amesbury, Mass. Mr. Wood is credited with holding over 100 patents, among which are engine direction and revolution indicator systems, d-c self-synchronizing motors, for many years standard in all U.S. Navy telegraphs for communication and fire control purposes, various types of electrical and mechanical signaling apparatus for submarines, and various marine lighting fixtures and wiring appliances. Numerous technical descriptions and treatises on the care and operation of these different equipments were prepared by him for the instruction of Navy and merchant marine personnel. Mr. Wood was a member of the Institute's marine (now applications to marine work) committee from 1913 to 1922."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following list of candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary before June 30, 1935, or Aug. 31, 1935, if the applicant resides outside of the United States or Canada."
"Large Steel Mill Order to Westinghouse. — Contracts have been awarded to the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., amounting to approximately $1,250,000 by the Bethlehem Steel Co. for motors, control and power equipment to be installed in new hot and cold strip mills of the Lackawanna Plant of the steel company, at Buffalo. The electrical units include: four 3000-hp and one 1000-hp alternating-current motors, nine 1250-hp direct-current motors, and one 2500-kilowatt and one 1300-kilowatt motor-generator sets. Westing-house is also supplying nearly 800 motors and variable frequency units for the roll tables of the mills and motors, motor-generator sets and control for a flying shear which catches and cuts to accurate lengths strip steel as it passes through the final rolling process. Westinghouse equipment will be installed to provide a cool air circulating system to ventilate the larger motors and motor-generator sets. Nearly all of the apparatus will be made in East Pittsburgh, work to start immediately."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"MAGNETIC MATERIALS are featured in 3 papers in this issue. One summarizes the results of extensive research on magnetic alloys of iron, nickel, and cobalt (pages 1292–9); a second discusses different grades of silicon steel and other magnetic materials and their application to communication equipment (pages 1348–53); a third outlines recent improvements in communication transformers, which have been made possible largely by improved core materials (pages 1367–73). A fourth paper on this same general subject contains a bibliography of 211 items on research in magnetics done during the years 1933–34 (pages 1354–9)."
"IN these trying times of stress and economic instability, engineers, like the rest of the business world, are trying to keep the ships of enterprise off the rocks of economic and financial disaster, and are exerting heroic efforts to keep the flag of hope flying bravely in the storm. Their associates and fellow workers can help bear the burden of worry and responsibility by their sympathy and loyalty, and by simply offering their friendship in the constant courageous battle."
"Research in the several fields intimately involved in improving the formulation and application of electrical insulating materials is continuing with unrelenting efforts. The following summary of some of the current (1934–35) results indicates something of the scope and significance of this work."
"The unexpected magnetic properties of certain alloys of iron and nickel discovered some 20 years ago led to a thorough study of the entire range of iron-nickel alloys. The results of this study were so encouraging that alloys of these metals with cobalt, the only other ferromagnetic metal, also were studied, as well as various alloys of these metals with small amounts of nonmagnetic metals added. From the results of this extended investigation have emerged several alloys that are playing important parts in the continued advancement of electrical communication."
"A volt-time breakdown curve (or solid insulation, constructed from test data obtained with the use of square edged electrodes, is given in this paper, considerably extending the range of information available on this subject."
"Methods of segregating the load losses in single phase and capacitor induction motors are presented in this paper. Segregation of losses affords a means for checking the accuracy of input-output tests, and is valuable in comparing motors of various designs."
"Since the original introduction of devices for measuring or rating the wave shape of power system currents and voltages in terms of their influence on exposed telephone circuits, much additional work on this problem has been done; the results of this work are reported in this paper. In part I, a curve of relative interfering effects based upon recent studies is presented, the characteristics of a meter for measuring telephone circuit noise are described, and the results of a comprehensive series of tests on the adequacy of this meter are presented. In part II, a new telephone influence factor weighting curve is presented, and a comparison is given between results obtained by meters embodying weighting networks based upon the new and old curves."
"The results of a series of high voltage breakdown tests between metal electrodes in high vacuum are reviewed, with consideration of the observed inverse relation between cathode gradient at breakdown and gap length. This leads to the conclusion that the current that flows between electrodes as the conditions for high voltage breakdown are approached must involve positive ions from the anode. The deposition of anode material upon the cathode, which would occur in the event of such positive-ion emission, was found to take place. As final proof of this hypothesis, interelectrode current at constant cathode gradient was found to vary with voltage."
"Some notes on the engineering development of electrochemical and electrometallurgical industries are given in this paper, with particular attention to progress of these industries in France. A discussion of the general problem of supplying electric power to these industries is followed by data on the development of certain processes which significantly illustrate “direct uses” of electricity in industrial processes. This paper by a distinguished French engineer contains considerable information not readily available in the United States."
"The short circuit test of a salient pole synchronous machine in which rated armature current is being circulated is conventionally used for determining the load loss. In certain cases, it is necessary also to know the load losses when the machine is operated at rated conditions of voltage, current, and power factor. Methods for predetermining the short circuit losses are given in detail in this paper, and the results of calculations are presented. Methods of predetermining the losses under rated conditions are given briefly."
"This paper describes the “biway” system of mass transit by continuously moving electrically operated platforms which is cited as being suitable for use in the congested sections of large cities. It is planned to have 2 adjacent moving platforms, one of which operates continuously at a speed of about 15 miles per hour, the other of which varies between standstill and the speed of the continuously moving platform to enable passengers to transfer between the stationary and moving platforms. The biway offers convenience in that it may be boarded at any point on the system and will give a nonstop ride to within a short distance of the destination, greater speed than existing transit methods for short distances, seating capacity up to 60,000 passengers per hour past a given point, and economy of operation by the use of regeneration. Figures given in the paper show that the biway may be less expensive than subways and give better service."
"Steel containing small amounts of silicon has come into wide use as a magnetic core material. In this paper the different grades of silicon steel, and other magnetic materials such as the nickel-iron alloys, are discussed with particular reference to the selection of the most satisfactory alloy for the various applications in communication equipment, which includes transformers for audio frequencies, small rotating apparatus and relays."
"A review of the research work which has been done in the field of magnetics during 1933 and 1934 is contained in the articles and papers referred to in a comprehensive bibliography which has recently been prepared. In this bibliography, which is divided into 31 sections and contains 211 items, publications of all countries are considered. The list should be of considerable value to those interested in magnetics. It is preceded by an introduction which outlines briefly the trends and the developments in magnetics at the present time."
"After a general discussion of the phenomenon of self excitation of a-c machines, a specific case of 3 phase self excitation of a Scherbius machine is treated. Such a machine is used in the regulating set of a variable-ratio frequency converter for inherently constant power transfer, the operating features of which are described. Under certain conditions this converter may be subject to the danger of self excitation. These conditions are discussed in detail and means are indicated to prevent self excitation during the normal operation of this converter."
"The rapidly advancing art of electrical communication and the increasingly wide variety of its applications have required marked improvements in the transformers used in communication circuits. These improvements, achieved partly through advances in design and partly through improvements in the constituent materials, are discussed in this paper."
"At its plenary meeting of June 1935 at Scheveningen-Bruxelles, the International Electrotechnical Commission unanimously adopted the meter-kilogram-second (mks) or Giorgi system of units, 15 of the 25 constituent countries being represented. In this paper the principal historical antecedents of this action by the I.E.C. are outlined, and its principal import to electrical engineering is indicated. Since the preparation of this paper there have been further important developments in connection with the adoption of this system; reports of these developments, as translated from the original French texts, are given in appendixes I and II."
"The differential analyzer has proved its worth in solving various types of difficult problems, of which the determination of the pull-in characteristics of salient pole synchronous motors is typical; but even with the aid of this device it has been necessary in solving this problem to make several simplifying assumptions. The differential analyzer recently completed at the University of Pennsylvania, however, is sufficiently comprehensive in design so that few assumptions are necessary, and the major electrical transients and mechanical forces may be taken into account. Typical solutions obtained by means of this analyzer are presented herewith, together with practical pulling-into-step criteria."
"With a view to augmenting the meager data available on the discharge currents through lightning arresters on electric power distribution circuits, the investigation reported in this paper, which covered 4 power systems of various voltages and in different sections of the country, was undertaken. Over the range of circuit voltages involved in this investigation (4 to 24 kv) voltage rating seemed to have no definite influence on the discharges. More negative than positive discharges were recorded, the ratio increasing as the discharge current increased. The maximum current recorded was 17,000 amperes."
"Data on the results of lightning protection for distribution transformers on the system of the Georgia Power Company have been compiled, to determine the improvement resulting from changes which have been made, particularly the interconnection of the ground leads of the primary arrester with the transformer secondary neutral. The data indicate that such interconnection has not produced all the benefits expected. The experience with lightning protection is presented in an impartial manner, and without attempting to offer a solution of existing problems."
"An electronic device is described for controlling the closing of a relay or switch at a predetermined point on the wave form of an a-c source. Current (or closing the relay is controlled by a gas filled triode, the firing of which is obtained by the distorted wave of a multivibrator. The output of the multivibrator is made to change phase with reference to the a-c voltage wave. The device is useful for the study of transients."
"Technical Program Announced for the A.I.E.E. Winter Convention THE TECHNICAL program for the A.I.E.E. winter convention which will be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., January 28–31, 1936, is, as usual, of broad scope and timely interest. The convention will convene on a Tuesday and technical sessions will be held both morning and afternoon for the first 3 days. Arrangements are being made for the smoker on Tuesday evening, which is expected to at least duplicate the noteworthy success of the last winter convention smoker. Wednesday evening the Edison Medal presentation will take place and on Thursday evening the dinner-dance will be held at the well-known Hotel Plaza. Friday will be devoted exclusively to inspection trips to interesting places in the city and the vicinity."
"PURDUE UNIVERSITY, Lafayette, Ind., played host to some 400 members, students, and guests who attended the fifth general meeting of the Great Lakes District, October 24–25, 1935. Traditional Hoosier hospitality was extended by officials and faculty of the university, convenient and comfortable facilities for the technical and other sessions were provided, and generous arrangements made for the entertainment of those in attendance. Each of the 9 Sections in District 5 were well represented, as also were the 16 Student Branches in the District, special emphasis being placed upon the participation of Student groups in the technical sessions and other activities."
"Preparation of a new dictionary of letter symbols and abbreviations to be used by engineers and scientists is a task to be undertaken by a committee of the American Standards Association. The committee on symbols and abbreviations which has been at work for many years and which has already published several standards, has recently been divided into 2 parts, one covering the letter symbols and abbreviations, and the second covering the graphical symbols. The committee working on letter symbols and abbreviations, which is now beginning its work, has 12 subcommittees covering such broad subjects as mathematics, physics and mechanics, structural analysis, hydraulics, heat and thermodynamics, photometry and illumination, aeronautics, electric and magnetic quantities, radio, astronomy and surveying, geodesy, and scientific and engineering terms."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., on October 22, 1935."
"Upon invitation of Dr. Karl Taylor Compton (F'31), president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, President E. B. Meyer of the A.I.E.E. has been appointed to serve as a member of the M.I.T. visiting committee of the department of electrical engineering for the academic year beginning October 1935."
"At the annual meeting of the John Fritz Medal board of award, the Gold Medal for 1936 was awarded William Frederick Durand for notable achievement “as authority in hydrodynamic and aerodynamic science, and in its practical application; outstanding leader in research and in engineering education.” This award was made unanimously by a board having for its members 16 past-presidents of the 4 American societies of civil, mining and metallurgical, mechanical, and electrical engineers."
"While there are rare and valuable collections of telegraph, telephone, and radio historical apparatus in the Smithsonian Institute, Washington, D. C.; Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, Pa.; Science Museum, New York, N. Y.; and the new museum in Chicago, Ill., it was found that no historical museum had been established in Canada. To remedy this situation Donald McNicol (A'05, F'18), past-president of the Institute of Radio Engineers, gathered and procured through purchase several private collections in the United States and Canada. These he has donated to Canadian communication engineers in the form of a museum which is housed in Ottawa. At present the telegraph and telephone items are housed in the Dominion archives department, and the radio items in the National Research Building, but shortly the collections are to be consolidated in the latter building."
"ALL who have presented technical papers before the Institute during the calendar year 1935 are eligible under the A.I.E.E. paper prize regulations for competitive consideration for one or more of the established prizes. Papers are eligible for submission to the prize committees regardless of whether presented before a Branch meeting, a Section meeting, a District meeting, or a national convention, the several classes providing for equitable competition."
"A handbook specifically adapted to the principal classes of wood use was published recently by the U.S. Forest Products Laboratory, Madison, Wis., headquarters of wood research for the federal Forest Service. This handbook is reported to be the first publication of its kind to bring the requirements of public utilities and railways to definite focus with the properties and characteristics of American wood species as a whole in their treated and untreated condition."
"ABOUT 170 out of the total of 457 registered for the Institute's Great Lakes District meeting held at Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind., Oct. 24–25, 1935, are shown here. This group contains many Students, who were given special attention at the meeting, both to their benefit and that of many of the older members present. In the upper central background may be discerned one of the towers of Purdue's high voltage experimental transmission line. In the central foreground appear (left to right) Dr. C. F. Harding of Purdue, Vice President G. G. Post of Milwaukee, President E. B. Meyer, Vice President N. B. Hinson of Los Angeles, National Secretary H. H. Henline, and Director P. B. Juhnke of Chicago. A report of the meeting is given on pages 1410–12 of this issue."
"THE eighth annual meeting and conference of the committee on electrical insulation, National Research Council held October 17 and 18, 1935, at Pittsfield, Mass., as guests of the General Electric Company, was unusually successful and interesting. It embraced 3 technical sessions in which 24 papers and progress reports of research were discussed, an evening lecture by Dr. Irving Langmuir, and high voltage demonstrations and inspections in the research laboratories and plants of the General Electric Company. Seventy-six members were registered and a number of local visitors participated. The following news report was prepared by A.I.E.E. Past-President J. B. Whitehead, long-time chairman of the N.R.C. insulation committee."
"The “Standards on Electrical Insulating Materials” recently published by the American Society for Testing Materials presents under a single cover A.S.T.M. standards that are in widespread use for testing and evaluating electrical insulating materials. The 1935 edition, 311 pages, gives 25 standardized methods of test and 10 specifications. The method of testing shellac has not been published heretofore. During 1935, revisions were made in a number of the test methods including those covering the following: varnishes, solid filling and treating compounds, molding powders, sheet and plate materials, laminated tubes and round rods, natural mica, and flexible varnished tubing."
"THE board of directors and the finance committee of the Institute feel that no better opportunity is afforded to inform the membership regarding developments affecting the organization and activities of the Institute than the presentation of the budget of estimated income and expenditures for the appropriation year beginning October first, in conjunction with the report of actual revenue and expenses of the preceding year. While information regarding the finances of the Institute is regularly furnished to the membership in the annual report of the board of directors, it is not feasible on that occasion to furnish a statement of details which would explain the underlying reasons for increases or decreases in expenditures for various activities."
"The triennial award of the George Montefiore Foundation of the University of Leeds, Belgium, has been presented for 1935 to Gabriel Kron (A'30), general engineering department, General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y. This prize, of 10,000 Belgian francs, was awarded for the best original work on scientific advancement and progress in technical application in any field of electricity submitted to the foundation for consideration."
"Preliminary to the annual assembly of American Engineering Council which will be held in Washington, D. C., on January 9–11, 1936, meetings of 2 of Council's committees were held in Washington, November 1 and 2, 1935."
"United engineering trustees, inc., organized in 1904, is now a joint agency of the 4 national societies representing the civil, mining and metallurgical, mechanical, and electrical engineers. It is organized in 3 departments, namely, the administrative department, The Engineering Foundation, and the Engineering Societies Library."
"In the October 1935 issue of Electrical Engineering, on page 1129–30, I noted the comments on the registration of engineers by one of our members over at Lynn, Mass. J. Leo Scanlon (A'28, M'34) J. Leo Scanlon Co., Sales Engineers Ellicott Sq. Bldg. Buffalo, N. Y."
"F. V. Magalhaes (A'07, F'19) for the past year connected with the inventory of the properties of the Consolidated Gas Company, New York, N. Y., and previously with the General Electric Company at West Lynn, Mass., has been appointed assistant to the executive vice president of the New York (N. Y.) Edison Company, Inc. Mr. Magalhaes, who received the degree of electrical engineer from Brooklyn (N. Y.) Polytechnic Institute in 1906, has already had many years of experience with the New York Edison Company. After several short periods of employment with the company, alternated with school and other work, he entered the meter department in 1907, becoming superintendent 2 years later. In 1917 he was made superintendent of the test department also. From 1926 to 1928 he was general superintendent of distribution and installation, leaving the company to become vice president for engineering of the Hall Electric Heating Company. This company was liquidated voluntarily in 1932, at which time Mr. Magalhaes became commerical representative for the General Electric Company at West Lynn. He is now a member of the Institute's standards committee and of the committee on safety codes, of which he was chairman 1928–29 and 1932–34. He has been a member of the board of examiners since 1931, serving previously 1923–28, since 1928 has been Institute representative on the electrical committee of the National Fire Protection Association, and since 1930 has been representative on the National Fire Waste Council, previously serving for the year 1928–29. Mr. Magalhaes also has been active in the work of other organizations, and for some years was secretary and vice president of the U.S. national committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission."
"Edwin Wilbur Rice, Jr. (A'87. F'13, HM'33, past-president and member for life) died November 25, 1935, as this issue of Electrical Engineering was going to press. A biographical sketch of Doctor Rice is scheduled for inclusion in the next issue."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting held November 13, 1935, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"This multientry annual reference index covers comprehensively the entire text content of the 12 issues of Electrical Engineering published during 1935 and of the identical content of the 1935 A.I.E.E. Transactions, volume 54."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"What is the structure of the electrical engineering profession? What are the chief branches of the profession recognized today, and relatively how many engineers are engaged primarily in each branch? What are the relationships of each branch to the other special branches? In an effort to clarify these questions, a quantitative study has been made of the membership of the A.I.E.E. and is reported herewith. On the basis of his findings, Dean Hoover makes several recommendations for improving the nomenclature of electrical engineers. Discussion is invited."
"Armature leakage reactance of synchronous machines has recently received considerable attention because of the important part which it plays in the accurate calculation of the performance of the saturated machine. (See, for example, reference 15 at end of this paper.) Test methods for determining the proper values of armature leakage reactance, and the results of these tests, are presented in this paper and should be of interest as an indication of the reliability of the formulas for the unsaturated value of this reactance and also as an indication of the variations in the reactance due to machine saturation. This paper is a companion paper to “Tests on Armature Resistance of Synchronous Machines” appearing on pages 705–9 of this issue."
"Armature resistance of synchronous machines, although usually disregarded when making torque-angle and excitation calculations, must be taken into account when making an accurate analysis. Values of armature resistance obtained in a series of tests are presented in this paper, which is a companion paper to “Test Values of Armature Leakage Reactance” in this issue, pages 700–5. Discussion of test methods, the effect of pole form on losses, and the use of effective armature resistance in determining the vector diagram of the machine are included herein."
"Tables of complete elliptic integrals of the first kind for large moduli are presented in this paper. While elliptic integrals are used in various kinds of engineering work, these tables are particularly useful in calculating mutual and self-inductances of cylindrical coils."
"In localities where hydroelectric power is abundant and steam loads are readily available, the production of steam from electric energy has proved to be a highly satisfactory means of utilizing surplus and off-peak power. This method of producing steam is particularly advantageous where cleanliness is important and in small establishments having intermittent demand for steam. Although the production of steam by this method has had a wider application in Canada, where the total installed capacity of such equipment exceeds 1,500,000 kw, numerous installations, totalling about 200,000 kw, also have been made in the United States. The design and operation of the principal types of equipment used for this purpose are discussed in this paper."
"A simple and accurate method is described for compiling stringing charts for overhead transmission lines, for either horizontal or inclined spans. All calculations can be carried out with a 20 inch slide rule, and no tables of functions are required other than those included in this paper. The procedure is the same for horizontal and for oblique spans. Moreover, no. loss of accuracy is suffered as the inclination of the span is increased. The final result is obtained by means of a graphical solution which, in principle, is based upon the Thomas chart."
"Methods of steady state power calculation developed specifically for: (1) systems having more machines than can be handled conveniently by existing methods; and (2) systems consisting of a line with magnetically saturated synchronous machines at both ends are outlined in this paper. Two general methods are given: (1) that involving the use of equivalent reactance or impedance, and (2) that involving the superposition of current diagrams. Methods of determining the equivalent reactance and impedance of any unknown system from measurements at the terminals of that system, whether magnetically saturated or not, also are given. When a complete solution is desired, superposition of current diagrams of saturated circuits is shown to be better than the method involving the use of either equivalent reactance or impedance."
"The board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its fifty-first annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1935. A general balance sheet showing the condition of the Institute's finances on April 30, 1935, together with other detailed financial statements, is included herein. This report contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING."
"On this and the following 35 pages appear all remaining unpublished discussions of papers presented at the 1935 A.I.E.E. winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22–25, and of a paper presented at the 1934 North Eastern District meeting, Worcester, Mass., May 16–18. Authors' closures where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by J. C. Balsbaush, N. D. Kenney, and Alfred Herzenburg published in the March 1935 issue, pages 272–9, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the North Eastern District meeting, Worcester, Mass., May 16, 1934. Other discussion of this paper was published in the May 1935 issue, page 559."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by C. R. Burrows, L. E. Hunt, and Alfred Decino published in the January 1935 issue, pages 115–24, and presented for oral discussion at the communication session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by J. M. Stinchfield published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1608–15, and presented for oral discussion at the electronics symposium or the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by E. F. W. Alexanderson and A. H. Mittag published in the November 1934 issue, pages 1517–23, and presented for oral discussion at the electronics symposium of the winter convention, Hew York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by F. H. Gulliksen and R. N. Stoddard published in the January 1935 issue, pages 40–9, and presented for oral discussion at the electronics symposium of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by D.E. Chambers originally published in the January 1935 issue, pages 82–92, and presented for oral discussion at the electronics symposium of the winter convention, New York, NY, USA January 24, 1935. [This discussion is a subsection of the item titled: \"Industrial Electronic Control Applications\" with Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by F.H. Gulliksen and R.N. Stoddard published in the January 1935 issue, pages 40-9, and presented for oral discussion at the electronic symposium of the winter convention, New York, NY, January 24, 1935]."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by C. F. Wagner and L. R. Ludwig published in the October 1934 issue, pages 1384–8, and presented for oral discussion at the electronics symposium of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by O. W. Pike and Dayton Ulrey published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1577–80, and presented for oral discussion at the electronics symposium of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by R. N. Stoddard published in the October 1934 issue, pages 1366–70, and presented for oral discussion at the electric welding session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by Daniel Silverman and J. H. Cox published in the October 1934 issue, pages 1380–3, and presented for oral discussion at the electric welding session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Authors' closing discussion of a paper published in the November 1934 issue, pages 1454–60, and presented for oral discussion at the electric welding session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussion of this paper was published in the April 1935 issue, page 444."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on education at the winter convention, New York, N. V., January 22, 1935."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by H. W. Bibber published in the October 1934 issue, pages 1356–9, and presented for oral discussion at the education session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1571–6, and presented for oral discussion at the education session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by Alex Dow published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1589–91, and presented for oral discussion at the education session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935. H. D. James (Westinghouse Elec. and Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich.): I read this paper with considerable interest, particularly as I know the author's background, which makes his statements of unusual value to me."
"Discussion of a paper by Saul Dushman published in the August 1934 issue, pages 1204–12, and in the September 1934 issue, pages 1283–96, and presented for oral discussion at the Illumination session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by H. M. Norman published in the April 1934 issue, pages 536–41, and presented for oral discussion at the induction motor session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by C. C. Leader and F. D. Phillips published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1628–32, and presented for oral discussion at the induction motor session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by P. M. Narbutovskih published in the November 1934 issue, pages 1466–71, and presented for oral discussion at the induction motor session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Authors' closing discussion of a paper published in the January 1935 issue, pages 73–82, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935. Other discussion of this paper was published in the April 1935 issue, page 436."
"Authors' closing discussion of a paper published in the October 1934 issue, pages 1389–96, and in the November 1934 issue, pages 1498–1503, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pages 322–4, and in the April 1935 issue, pages 431–4."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the January 1935 issue, pages 50–5, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pages 326–7."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the January 1935 issue, pages 30–40, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, page 324, and in the April 1935 issue, pages 434–6."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the October 1934 issue, pages 1359–65, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the May 1935 issue, pages 555–7."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the March 1934 issue, pages 418–25, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935. Other discussion of this paper was published in the May 1935 issue, page 557."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by P. L. Bellaschi and W. L. Teague published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1639–45, and presented for oral discussion at the transformer symposium of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by H. V. Putman and J. E. Clem published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1594–7, and presented for oral discussion at the transformer symposium of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by V. M. Montsinger and W. M. Dann published in the October 1934 issue, pages 1353–5, and presented for oral discussion at the transformer symposium of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by L. C. Nichols published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1616–21, and presented for oral discussion at the transformer symposium of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the November 1934 issue, pages 1478–85, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pages 334–5."
"Closing discussion of a paper prepared by the lightning and insulator subcommittee of the A.I.E.E. committee on power transmission and distribution published in the November 1934 issue, pages 1443–7, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Authors' closing discussion of a paper published in the January 1935 issue, pages 66–73, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pages 329–32, and in the May 1935 issue, pages 557–8."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1633–7, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pages 332–3, and in the April 1935 issue, pages 444–5."
"Seattle, Washington, will be host to the 1935 Pacific Coast convention of the Institute which will be held August 27–30, with headquarters in the Olympic Hotel in that city. The convention committee has arranged an excellent schedule of events consisting of 5 technical sessions, 2 Student sessions, entertainment, sports, inspection trips, and specially arranged trips for the visiting women. Also, the convention, which will be held during part of the week preceding Labor Day, will be an important part of the vacation plans of many members. Seattle and the Puget Sound area, bounded by high mountain ranges, are noted for beautiful scenery and attractive vacation possibilities."
"The Institute's fifty-first annual summer convention, held this year on the campus of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, opened auspiciously. The first day's registration totaled 550, even though none of the technical sessions started until the second day. At the annual business meeting held as part of the opening session on Monday, 330 persons were present, and the several preliminary conferences were well attended. A full report of this convention is scheduled for the August issue."
"In addition to the national and District prizes for papers presented before the Institute during the calendar year 1934, as announced in Electrical Engineering for June 1935, page 677, announcement now has been made of the award of prizes for Districts No. 1 and No. 2. These awards are:"
"The Institute's University of Arizona Branch at Tucson completed its most successful year, with considerable activity evidenced on the university campus. Meetings were held, with few exceptions, every week, with a topic discussed by a student or professor, followed by a general talk in which all took part. These talks covered a variety of subjects, ranging from illumination installations, through radio television, to a description of a trip through a manufacturing plant."
"Plans are progressing rapidly for the meeting of the Great Lakes District of the A.I.E.E. which will be held at Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind., October 24–25, 1935. Headquarters will be in the Electrical Engineering Building."
"Who is an engineer, and by what right does he use that title or undertake to practice engineering? At present there is no single criterion by which an engineer's qualifications can be measured, either by his fellows or by the public that uses his services. The legal status of an engineer is determined in some states by a process of examination, registration, and licensing. His educational status may be indicated by a college degree, and his technical qualifications by his grade of membership in a national society of high repute. Not all engineers are licensed. Neither do they all possess college degrees nor hold membership in a technical society. From the point of view of professional solidarity the situation is chaotic."
"To provide an effective opportunity for an increase in knowledge, understanding, and general interest in the various phases of the work of the several joint organizations created by the national societies to serve the engineering profession, a special meeting was held in the Engineers' Club in New York, N. Y., on Monday evening, May 20, 1935. Those present at this dinner and general discussion meeting included a large proportion of the officers and directors of the national societies of civil, mining and metallurgical, mechanical, and electrical engineers, together with members of the governing bodies of their several jointly sponsored functional organizations, and a few special guests. A total of 89 persons were in attendance. Of these, 27 were members of the A.I.E.E., their names being given in the news report of the meeting published in Electrical Engineering for June 1935, pages 676–7."
"As reported in previous letters, Council is working toward increased participation of engineers in public affairs through a plan which ultimately will result in the setting up of state and regional public affairs committees composed of keymen in each area. The system of membership committees, now rapidly developing to encourage state and local societies to join Council under the new plan of nominal dues, is a step toward the final network of organized groups. Each new member society is asked to appoint a man to keep Council informed as to public affairs in his region and a complete setup in 1 or 2 states in order to test the plan is being made."
"Through the distribution of its monthly “news letter” and discussion contributed thereon A.E.C. is working toward a clearing house arrangement which will promote a quick exchange of thought between the widely separated engineering groups throughout the country. Discussion of “news letters” is encouraged. The following items will suggest the type of suggestions desired."
"Dr. A. E. Kennelly (A'88, F'13, HM'33, past-president, and member for life), professor emeritus of electrical engineering, Harvard University, was elected chairman of the new Sectional Committee on Electric and Magnetic Magnitudes and Units, and E. C. Crittenden (A'19, M'22), assistant director, National Bureau of Standards, was elected vice-chairman, at the organization meeting of the committee in the Engineering Societies Building, May 2. J. W. McNair, Electrical Engineer of the American Standards Association, was elected secretary of the committee."
"Engineering Foundation has appointed a welding research committee to: (a) initiate and conduct a critical review of world welding literature; (b) render modest aid to worthy individual projects functioning under the fundamental research committee of the American Bureau of Welding; and (c) sponsor specific research investigations. The project will be started by funds contributed by Engineering Foundation supplemented by funds and services supplied by industry. The project is jointly sponsored by the A.I.E.E. and the American Welding Society. (A previous announcement of this project was made in Electrical Engineering for May 1935, page 571.)"
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely."
"A. E. Kennelly (A'88, M'99, F'13, HM'33, Life Member and past-president) professor emeritus of electrical engineering, Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass., has been elected honorary president of the U.S. National Committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission. Doctor Kennelly has been honorary secretary for many years and has served on the committees on rating of electrical machinery and as chairman of the committee on electrical and magnetic magnitudes and units. He served 2 terms as vice president of the Institute, 1892–94 and 1897–98, and was a manager 1894–97 and president 1898–1900. In 1933 he was awarded the Institute's Edison medal for his work in electrical science and engineering. Doctor Kennelly was appointed professor of electrical engineering at Harvard University in 1902, and became professor emeritus in 1930. He has served on the Institute's standards committee almost continuously since 1906 and on the research committee since 1920, as representative on the U.S. National Committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission since 1907, and as a member of the radio advisory committee of the Bureau of Standards since 1925, as well as on a number of others. He recently became chairman of the newly formed sectional committee on electric and magnetic magnitudes and units under the sponsorship of the electrical standards committee of the American Standards Association, which replaces the former special committee of the U.S. National Committee of the International Electrotechnical commission."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of June 19, 1935, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary before July 31, 1935, or Sept. 30, 1935, if the applicant resides outside of the United States or Canada."
"A list of members whose mail has been returned by the postal authorities is given below, with the address as it now appears on the Institute record. Any member knowing of corrections to these addresses will kindly communicate them at once to the office of the secretary at 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Large Orders for Westinghouse. — The Westinghouse Elec. & Mfg. Co. has received an order totaling $299,000 from the J. G. Brill Co., of Philadelphia, for the Delaware River Bridge Joint Commission. The electrical equipment consists of four 100 hp motors and automatic electropneumatic battery control, and also includes the panels, fans, and other electrical accessories."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In our present day engineering civilization, is there a logical basis for the thesis that an engineering education is a good preparation for any life work? President Johnson says there is, and in this article gives strong supporting reasons for his contention. He concludes that a broad basic engineering education “which opens the mind and shows it how nature itself does its work, and teaches it to apply that knowledge through original thinking to the specific problems of one's life work, is a preparation for that life work which has, and in the very nature of things can have, no equal.”"
"A brief résumé of some of the principal features of the Boulder Canyon project is presented herewith. Included in the paper are: (1) a brief review of historical facts leading up to the project; (2) an outline of principal features of the Boulder Dam — Los Angeles power transmission system, which includes a 270-mile 275-kv line; (3) a description of the distributing system in Los Angeles, which this line will feed; and (4) brief discussion of the flood control and water supply features of the project."
"Because of its length, 270 miles, the 275 kv transmission line from Boulder Dam to Los Angeles, Calif., requires extremely high speed switching for stability. To meet the requirements, a high voltage impulse circuit breaker, extending the oil blast theory to cover a multibreak construction with double cross-blast ports, has been built. It provides over-all switching times consistently less than 3 cycles (3/60 second). Approximately 10 per cent as much oil is used as in a comparable breaker of conventional design, and only 1/10 of this is exposed to arcing. Large factors of safety are provided over and above the interrupting rating of 5,000 amperes, 287 kv, or 2,500,000 kva."
"A new instrument, called the surge crest ammeter, based upon the principle of magnetic retentivity has made available a direct and simple method of measuring surge currents. A study of the behavior of 2 magnetic links under the influence of oscillatory surge currents has made this instrument useful in measuring the per cent oscillation as well as crest values of surge currents. Specimen measurements included in this paper show briefly one application of this instrument."
"An extension of the Potier method of testing for armature leakage reactance of synchronous machines is presented in this paper, wherein it is shown that the easily tested for Potier reactance varies considerably and therefore has a limited field of usefulness. It is further shown that if the Potier reactance is measured at high values of field current, the armature leakage reactance is closely approximated and a more valuable test results."
"The causes and mitigation of telephone cable sheath corrosion are dealt with in this paper, which describes particularly a method of applying a counter potential to the cable sheath for the mitigation of corrosion from localized currents. This method, although not new, has had but limited application. It may find extensive future use for controlling corrosion on intercity toll cables, and in localities where street railways have been abandoned. In addition to a unique application of this method, there is also described the method of correcting by current drainage a particularly bad case of corrosion from stray current."
"In its introductory part, this paper explains why the transient speed changes of d-c motors under suddenly applied loads may affect the quality of the product rolled on a continuous rolling mill. In a later section, the paper analyzes the behavior of such motors driving a tandem tube mill, and points out the difference between the transient and the steady-state speed-load characteristics; the former greatly affects the product, while the latter, or the conventional speed regulation, is of only minor importance. The paper outlines the course to follow in choosing the most suitable motors and gives a mathematical study of the transient speed-load changes."
"Definitions of power, power factor, and related quantities in an a-c circuit have been prepared in an effort to provide definitions which will be generally acceptable. If such general acceptance is obtained, they will be published as a part of the revised report on “Definitions of Electrical Terms” which is being prepared by the Sectional Committee on Electrical Definitions. The authors were requested to prepare this paper to give to engineers an understanding of the principles which have guided the preparation of the proposed definitions and to provide opportunity for their discussion. The definitions cover the entire field of single-phase and polyphase circuits. The explanations start with simple circuits and lead to the more complex."
"Instantaneous isolation of faults on transmission and distribution lines is ever a problem of the relay engineer. The use of instantaneous overcurrent relays as applied to the system of the Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company is discussed in this paper. Relays of this type were applied in conjunction with already installed overcurrent time delay relays, giving a form of distance relay protection. Operating results have proved the scheme to be highly satisfactory. Economies realized in the better coordination between relays and fuses by using instantaneous relays also are discussed briefly."
"The method for calculation of power flow and bus voltages in a-c networks described in this paper is based upon Kirchhoff's laws, and is novel mainly in that the power losses are lumped at the network terminals in determining power flow. The effect of circuit shunt capacitance is included. Problems in which the ratio of resistance to reactance in all branches is constant, and also problems in which this ratio is not constant are considered. The method can be applied to any a-c network."
"Radial uniformity of oil impregnated paper cable insulation, that is, uniformity in a radial direction from conductor to sheath, is a characteristic of well manufactured cable that is fully as important or more so than longitudinal uniformity. Radial power factor curves for several brands of new cable included in this paper show marked irregularities which are attributed to poorly controlled manufacturing methods. On the basis of such studies, some manufacturers have made efforts to improve the radial uniformity of their insulation with resulting great improvement in quality. This characteristic of cable insulation thus provides a criterion of insulation quality that should be useful to both manufacturer and user."
"A number of examples in which an increased intensity of illumination in industrial establishments resulted in an actual increase in production are cited in this paper. Other results also attributed to adequate lighting are that better work can be done, accidents are reduced, and waste space may be made available for production."
"The value of probability theory in the field of engineering is forcefully brought out in this paper, which explains the fundamentals of the theory, not by the use of mathematics, but by the solution of sample problems of types frequently encountered."
"Recent research reported in this paper shows that lubrication of pivot bearings of electric watthour meters is essential for maximum bearing life. The performance of these bearings represents the most important mechanical factor in sustained meter accuracy. The comparatively high rate of wear in a new bearing is found to decrease rapidly with use, finally becoming extremely small. With a well lubricated bearing, the effect of the increased friction resulting from wear on the calibration of the meter is shown to be negligible. A jewel screw of new design, having a large oil reservoir to provide for proper lubrication over a long period of time, also is described."
"On this and the following 18 pages appear discussions submitted for publication and approved by the technical committees on papers presented at the sessions on cables, noise, overhead line problems, and electric welding at the 1935 A.I.E.E. winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22–25. Other discussions of winter convention papers, and authors' closures, will be published in later issues. The first discussions of winter convention papers appear in Electrical Engineering for March 1935, pages 322–35."
"Discussion of a paper by J. E. Clem published in the January 1935 issue, pases 30–40, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, page 324."
"Discussion of a paper by Herman Halperin, J. E. Clem, and K. W. Miller published in the January 1935 issue, pages 73–82, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24,1935."
"Discussion of a paper by E. H. Salter, G. B. Shanklin, and R. J. Wiseman published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1581–9, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pages 324–6."
"Discussion of a group of papers presented for oral discussion at the noise session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by A. P. Fugill published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1603–8, and presented for oral discussion at the noise session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by B. G. Churcher published in the January 1935 issue, pages 55–65, and presented for oral discussion at the noise session of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of papers presented for oral discussion at the electric welding session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by E. C. Easton, F. B. Lucas, and F. Creedy published in the November 1934 issue, pages 1454–60, and presented for oral discussion at the electric welding session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by K. B. McEachron published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1633–7, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pages 332–3."
"Discussion of a paper by C. L. Gilkeson and P. A. Jeanne published in the September 1934 issue, pages 1301–9, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N.Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, page 327."
"Discussion of a paper by O. A. Browne and W. L. Vest, Jr., published in the January 1935 issue, pases 109–15, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pages 333–4."
"Discussion of a paper prepared by the lightning and insulator subcommittee of the A.I.E.E. committee on power transmission and distribution published in the November 1934 issue, pages 1443–7, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by C. H. Willis, B. D. Bedford, and F. R. Elder published in the January 1935 issue, pages 102–8, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pages 327–9."
"Attractive plans which will be of interest to a large number of the Institute's membership are in progress for the 51st annual summer convention to be held on the campus of Cornell University at Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, 1935. The campus, situated on a hill at an elevation of about 500 feet above Cayuga Lake, and the surrounding country are well known for their scenic beauty and they provide an ideal setting for the convention. An enlarged program consisting of 10 technical sessions and a number of informal conferences or round table meetings, some of which will be of special interest to Students and the younger members, will be held. The evenings will be devoted mainly to social functions."
"AN innovation in Section meetings modestly introduced last year by the Institute's San Francisco Section has been received with such growing enthusiasm by members in that Section, that an outline of the plan is presented here for the benefit of other Sections that may be interested. This innovation consists of the scheduling of special informal discussion meetings approximately once a month, between the regular Section meetings."
"United Engineering Trustees, Inc., organized in 1904, is now the joint agency of the 4 national societies representing the civil, mining and metallurgical, mechanical, and electrical engineers. It is organized in 3 departments, namely, the administrative department, The Engineering Foundation, and the Engineering Societies Library."
"Following are excerpts from the current news letter released by American Engineering Council, the “Washington Embassy” of engineers, which appear to be of particular interest to members of the Institute:"
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely."
"W. F. Wells (A'99, F'12) first vice president and general manager, and a director, of the Brooklyn Edison Company, Inc., Brooklyn, N. Y., retired March 1, 1935, after more than 42 years of service. Mr. Wells studied at Rutgers College, and in 1892 entered the employ of the Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Brooklyn, predecessor of the Brooklyn Edison Company. Several years later he became connected with other companies, which later merged to form The New York Edsion Company, and was associated in the construction of the Waterside generating station, being placed in charge of its operation upon completion in 1901. In 1905 he returned to the Brooklyn company as general superintendent, and in 1913 was elected vice president and general manager and a director of this company and of the Kings County Electric Light and Power Company, these companies forming the Brooklyn Edison Company in 1919. Mr. Wells was a member of the Institute's committee on power stations (now power generation) 1917–19, and took an active part in the work of other societies and organizations."
"Michael Idvorsky Pupin (A'90, F'15, HM'28, past-president and member for life) professor emeritus in active residence, Columbia University, New York, N. Y., died March 12, 1935. One of the leading scientists at the time of his death, he came to the United States in 1874 as a penniless boy intent on securing a higher education, but whose first job was driving mules for a Delaware farmer. Doctor Pupin was born at Idvor, Banat, Hungary (now in Yugoslavia) October 4, 1858. In 1879 he entered Columbia University, and was graduated with the degree of bachelor of arts in 1883. He afterward studied mathematics at the University of Cambridge, England, and physics at the University of Berlin, Germany, holding while in Berlin the John Tyndall fellowship of Columbia University. After receiving the degree of doctor of philosophy at Berlin in 1889 he became instructor of mathematical physics at Columbia University, and adjunct professor of mechanics in 1892. In 1901 he was appointed professor of electromechanics, and 2 years later director of the Phoenix Research Laboratory of Columbia University, a position which he held until he retired from active service in 1929. Doctor Pupin made important contributions to knowledge in a-c theory, the passage of electricity through gases, long distance communication, and other subjcts. In a paper published in 1896 he first described the nature of secondary X ray radiation, and in 1902 he sold patents covering his inventions in electrical tuning, so important in radio broadcasting, to the Marconi Company. Previous to this he had accomplished the rectification of high frequency electrical waves, the description being published in 1899. Rapid X ray photography by the use of a fluorescent screen was invented and described by Doctor Pupin in 1896. The chief invention credited to him is the principle of loading telephone or telegraph lines by lumped inductance, his “loading coils” compensating by their inductance for the capacitance between the 2 wires of the circuit. Doctor Pupin also proposed a rule for the placement of these inductances along the line. In this way transmission over long open wire or cable lines was greatly improved. Doctor Pupin received numerous honors for his work, and was awarded some 18 honorary degrees. Among the medals he received are the Cresson medal of the Franklin Institute, 1902; the Prix Herbert of the French Academy, 1916; the medal of the Institute of Radio Engineers, 1924; the Edison medal of the Institute, 1925; and the John Fritz medal, 1932. Doctor Pupin was a past-president of the Institute of Radio Engineers, a past-chairman of the Engineering Foundation, and a member of many other societies. He was a manager of the Institute, 1892–95, a vice president, 1895–97 and 1901–03, and president, 1925–26, in addition serving on a number of Institute committees. Several books and numerous papers have been written by him, many of his papers having been presented before the Institute."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting held on March 21, 1935, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"General Electric Operations Increased in 1934. — At the March meeting of the board of directors of the General Electric Company, the preliminary results for 1934 were presented, showing orders received amounting to $184,000,000, compared with $143,-000,000 in 1933, an increase of 29%, and sales billed of $164,797,000 compared with $136,637,000 in 1933, an increase of 21%. The average number of employees was 49,642 compared with 41,560 in 1933. The total earnings of these employees amounted to $75,227,000 as against $55,287,000 for 1933. The average annual earning increased 14% over 1933. Between March 1, 1933 (the approximate low), and December 31, 1934 (the high), the number of employees on the payroll increased almost 37%, and the total annual payroll rate increased from $47,604,000 to $81,300,000, or 70%. At the end of 1934 there were 196,248 stockholders compared with 188,316 a year earlier."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Most engineers are familiar with some of the more common uses of X rays, and many have had occasion to apply them in their daily work; to many, however, the picture of this versatile tool and its numerous applications is quite incomplete. The latter will find this article particularly interesting and instructive. The nature of these rays, the mechanism of their production, and the fundamental principles underlying their many applications in medicine, physics, chemistry, biology, and industry are outlined briefly. Perhaps the most striking application is the determination of the ultimate fine structure of materials from the results of diffraction analysis, in which the X rays provide a supermicroscopic vision of matter. This is the thirteenth and concluding article of the “Science Series for Engineers” developed under auspices of the A.I.E.E. committee on education."
"A brief review of the present status of standardization of noise meters and measurements, and progress made to date by the technical committee on noise meters and noise levels of the American Standards Association."
"A successful manufacturing engineer looks at the social sciences. He points out that “all wealth is produced from land by the application of labor aided by capital.” In order that every one might have an opportunity of securing his rightful share of land, a new system is proposed wherein every community would collect all community-created ground rent and all taxation on wealth would be abolished."
"With the aid of sound measurements made with an analyzing type of sound meter, it has been possible to ascertain the principal sources of noise in an electric power substation in a residential district and to reduce the noise to an unobjectionable level. The principal sources of noise were found to be an outdoor 6,000-kva transformer and the voltage regulators inside the station building; by replacing the noisy transformer with a quieter one and replacing the ventilating louvers in the regulator rooms with steel plates, the noise on neighboring properties was reduced to about 4 per cent of its original loudness."
"Equipment for handling frequency band widths of the order of 1,000,000 cycles or more for telephone, telegraph, and television purposes was described in a recent Institute paper “Wide Band Transmission Over Coaxial Lines.” This previous paper confines itself to the coaxial line structure, but points out that broad band transmission is also applicable to balanced conductor systems. The present paper discusses briefly some of the possibilities of the more familiar balanced circuits, circuits essentially as they now exist in the present plant being first considered, following which are considered circuits obtained by new construction. Wide band transmission over balanced circuits offers interesting possibilities both in the present plant and for new construction."
"Determination of the permissible neutral resistance or reactance for the grounding of cable systems for 3 phase power supply is considered in this paper. The theory of overvoltages which may arise as a result of intermittent arcs to ground through a cumulative action is discussed, and a description of the method for calculating these voltages is given. A simplified criterion for determining the value of neutral resistance or neutral reactance for limiting the over-voltages is proposed which permits the use of higher values than any preceding method."
"Electronic tubes are being applied in rapidly increasing numbers in the solution of industrial control problems. A review of several of the most frequently encountered types of problems to which these tubes are being applied is presented herewith. These include photo-electric control applications, electronic relays, electronic regulators, and a welding timer for seam welding."
"The correlation of the pressure and temperature effects in determining the dielectric strength of mineral insulating oils is considered in this paper. The effect which gas dissolved in the oil has on the dielectric strength of the oil is shown by experimental results of tests on the effect of temperature and pressure. Based upon these results, simple formulas for expressing the dielectric strength of oil are obtained."
"The 2 principles of noise measurement, namely, the subjective and objective principles, are discussed in this paper with special reference to electrical plant. Two forms of measurement embodying the subjective principle are considered: One is the proposed primary standard method, which is essentially a laboratory method; the other is the noise audiometer, which enables the subjective principle to be applied directly to the study of engineering noise problems. A form of audiometer and technique, together with their practical advantages, are described. The objective method of measurement is particularly needed for commercial acceptance tests. The evidence shows that the objective type of instrument now available evaluates the noise of many types of plant correctly, but that with noises predominantly harmonic in tone structure, the principle of the method is inapplicable. It is concluded that the audiometer provides the only practicable means at present available for measuring transformer noise and that no satisfactory solution for the commercial testing of such apparatus has yet been reached."
"During the last few years, the expulsion protective gap, consisting of an arrangement of spark gaps inside of fiber tubes and in series with an external gap, has been applied to a few medium voltage transmission lines for protection against outage due to lightning. The first extensive application of such gaps on 2 typical 132 kv lines during the past 2 lightning seasons are presented herewith. These expulsion protective gaps are shown to be an effective device for preventing lightning flashovers of a line and reducing line outage."
"Field experience and tests show that unexpectedly high transient sheath voltages occur during the switching of charging current in single-conductor cable-type bus leads and in underground single-conductor power transmission cables bonded to eliminate sheath losses. No sheath troubles from these voltages have been found. Theoretical analysis of these voltages is presented together with suggested methods for protection of equipment, when the latter is necessary."
"Several of the circuits and principles of application of the various types of electron tubes in industrial control are considered in this paper. Principal consideration is given to the various types of photo-electric control, electron tube-reactor theater lighting control, electron tube motor control, and electron tube welder control. Principles intended as guides in the selection of the proper tube circuits are given."
"For the benefit of those who may wish to use vacuum tubes in meeting specific problems in the field of measurement, the comprehensive bibliography contained in this paper has been prepared. Some 600 references are included in this list, selected from a total of about 1,500 papers or books published since approximately 1920. The first portion of the bibliography contains publications dealing with the characteristics of vacuum tubes, and the second portion contains references to specific applications to measurement problems."
"High voltage d-c electric power transmission has been envisioned for many years, but numerous obstacles have prevented its use to any great extent. Most of these obstacles appear to be overcome in the system described in this paper; this system comprises conversion of constant-potential a-c power to constant-current d-c power, transmission of constant-current d-c power, and reconversion to constant-potential a-c power. The promising features of this system are its unusual stability and reliability; as an example, the high-voltage constant-current d-c line may be short-circuited without damage to line or equipment."
"Operating experience obtained during 2 lightning seasons with an installation of carrier current relays on a New England power system is presented herewith. A resume of the reasons for the choice of this type of protection also is given, and the relay and carrier current equipment is described."
"This paper extends a previous paper on the investigation of ultra-short wave propagation, to include transmission within a built-up region together with a consideration of the additional problems introduced by man-made interference. Tests were made using both a fixed transmitter with mobile receiver, and a mobile transmitter with a fixed receiver."
"ONE of the new all-metal Douglas airliners which are in service on the lines of Transcontinental and Western Air, Inc., flying low over city buildings. Airliners of this same type will be at Newark, N. J., airport during the Institute's forthcoming winter convention at New York, January 22–25, 1935. Inspection trips scheduled include visits to the plant of the Wright Aeronautical Corporation, at which the manufacture of the engines used in the Douglas airliner may be seen, and to Newark airport, where these planes will be available for those who wish to schedule flights over the city in them. Some details of this plane were given in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for February 1934, page 349."
"A SCHEDULE of events replete with both professional and social activities has been arranged for the A.I.E.E. winter convention to be held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., January 22–25, 1935. The convention will open on a Tuesday and technical sessions will be held during the mornings and afternoons of the first 3 days. In the evenings a smoker which this year will be a radical departure from the time-honored type, medal presentations and demonstration lecture, and the dinner-dance will be held. In addition special entertainment has been arranged for the visiting ladies. Friday, the last day of the convention, will be devoted entirely to inspection trips to a number of places of interest in New York and vicinity, some of which are entirely new and have not been seen heretofore. The program will be interspersed with important committee meetings and those who attend will have a busy and profitable week with ample opportunity for social enjoyment."
"A meeting of the executive committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., on December 7, 1934."
"Plans being made for the Institute's 51st annual summer convention, to be held at Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, 1935, indicate that particular emphasis is being placed on securing arrangements which will make the convention available to the largest possible number of members. It is planned to make it a convention that all members can afford to go to, enjoy, and profit by. All of the features included in previous summer conventions are expected to be included, as well as several innovations."
"A complete official ticket of candidates for the Institute offices that will become vacant August 1, 1935, was selected by the national nominating committee at its meeting held at Institute headquarters, New York, December 7, 1934. This committee, in accordance with the constitution and by-laws, consists of 15 members, one selected by the executive committee of each of the 10 geographical Districts, and the remaining 5 selected by the board of directors from its own membership."
"December 3, 1934, Westinghouse radio station KYW began broadcasting from its new facilities in Philadelphia, Pa., on a frequency of 1,020 kilocycles per second. Prior to that time, the station was located at Chicago, Ill., the first program having been broadcast from there in 1921. The new transmitter, which is shown in the accompanying illustration, is at Whitemarsh, Pa., a few miles north of Philadelphia; although designed as a 50 kw station, it will operate initially at 10 kw. The design of the station is notable for its compactness. Two features that resulted in saving much space are the use of extremely compact nitrogenfilled radio capacitors and a high voltage rectifier of new design. Foremost among the other technical innovations of the station are its directional antenna system, the use of alternating current for all transmitting tube filaments, and the use of a cathode ray oscilloscope for monitoring. The antenna system consists of 4 245-foot vertical masts each connected separately to the transmitter; by controlling the phase relationship of the current delivered to these 4 masts it is possible to adjust accurately the direction of the radio beam so that maximum signal will be delivered into Philadelphia and Allentown, Pa., and minimum signal in other directions where, if a signal were present, interference might result with other radio stations. Each mast consists of a 200 foot length of telescopic steel tubing mounted on insulators at the top of a wooden framework tower 45 feet high. A specially designed counterpoise is used to improve the ground system; this consists of a total of about 55,000 feet of copper wire formed into special cages which are suspended horizontally between insulators on poles at a height of 10 feet above the ground around the bases of the 4 antenna masts."
"The second and concluding section of an authoritative dissertation dealing in a practical way with the important problem of finding work, and keeping it after it is found, is presented herewith. This article, the first section of which was published in Electrical Engineering for December 1934, pages 1670–4, was written by Samuel S. Board, placement specialist of New York, N. Y., for The American Society of Mechanical Engineers."
"At a meeting of the board of the Engineering foundation the following were elected to fill the unexpired portion of terms of members of the board ending on February 21, 1935: Chairman: H. P. Charlesworth (M'22, F'28, and junior past president), American Institute of Electrical Engineers; assistant chief engineer, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, New York, N. Y."
"Howard Coonley, president of the Walworth Company, was reelected president of the American Standards Association for 1935, at the annual meeting of the organization held in New York, N. Y., December 12, 1934. Frederick E. Moskovics, representing the Society of Automotive Engineers, was reelected vice president. Mr. Coonley, who represents The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, has served 2 terms as president."
"The Annual Meeting of American Engineering Council in Washington, D. C., January 10–12, 1935, comes at a period likely to approach an all-time high for Washington activity. The present lull will break into a long-pent rush of action as Congress and the top Federal officials line up the program for 1935. If organized engineers are to have any say in the shaping of these events, mid-January is the time to make themselves heard."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. STATEMENTS in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to the rest of the engineering community."
"GEORGE FITCH BROWN (M'18) manager generator and converter division, central station department, General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., died November 26, 1934. He was born at Geneva, Neb., May 2, 1880. In 1904 he graduated from the University of Nebraska with the degree of bachelor of science in electrical engineering and, until he entered the General Electric Company in 1905, worked as an estimator for an electrical contractor. He became a designing engineer in the a-c department in 1907, and remained in this work until 1915, when he became an engineer with the Southwark Foundry and Machine Company, Philadelphia. Pa. Two years later he returned to the General Electric Company as an engineer in the central station engineering department, and was placed in charge of the apparatus section in 1928. He became manager of the generator and converter division when it was formed in 1933."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of December 19, 1934, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"The Electrical Outlook for 1935. — According to a recent statement by Gerard Swope, President, General Electric Co., the volume of electrical manufacturing during 1934 has been more than 30 per cent greater than in 1933. Consumption of electricity throughout the United States has been approximately 7 per cent greater than in 1933 and is almost up to the maximum consumption in the years 1929 and 1930. This increase has been due largely to the increased use of electrical appliances in the home. The electrical manufacturing industry, and industry in general, has felt most seriously the failure of the revival of orders for capital goods, but with the increased use of electricity and consumers' goods in general, capital goods must also increase. For the year 1935, Mr. Swope looks forward to a continued improvement in business."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"By interconnecting and coördinating its private communication facilities with the commercial telephone system, the Tennessee Electric Power Company is building up a comprehensive communication system for the use of all departments of the company. These improved communication facilities are described briefly in this paper. The principal features of the plan are: (1) adequate interconnecting facilities between telephone and power company systems are furnished by the telephone company; (2) telephone equipment retired by the power company is replaced by telephone company equipment; and (3) commercial leased service is considered whenever the power company requires additional facilities."
"To supplement the training of college graduates in the practical application of fundamental principles and mathematics to engineering analysis, the General Electric Company 11 years ago established its “Advanced Course in Engineering.” The course of study given and the objectives to be attained are outlined in this paper which also summarizes the practical value of this special 3 year course as indicated by the work of its graduates."
"The application of dimensional analysis to various types of problems in electrical engineering is discussed in this paper for the purpose of stimulating the use of model experiments in solving these problems. The authors hold that this method can be applied to many electrical engineering problems that are difficult of solution otherwise. Criterions for determining whether or not dimensional analysis and model experiments can be used are given."
"Recent developments in a bridge devised at Massachusetts Institute of Technology for obtaining high-precision power-factor measurements on small oil samples, and the associated oil cell, are described in this paper, and the results of measurements on oil samples are discussed. Several conclusions drawn from the work done at M.I.T. on power factor bridges and measurements are given."
"An attempt has been made to devise a different type of wattmeter for measuring power and power factor in a-c circuits such as those found in communication service. An adjustable network has been constructed in such a manner that when it is balanced in 3 operations the power factor is indicated directly and the power can be obtained by a short and simple slide-rule calculation."
"Corona discharges from a-c conductors are characterized by marked polarity effects. The most pronounced electrical polarity effect is the sudden burst of negative corona current each cycle, which sets up high frequency oscillations that produce electromagnetic radiation throughout the radio frequency spectrum. Polished and smooth weathered cables produce such radiation only during negative half cycles; mutilated and contaminated conductors produce it during both positive and negative half cycles under some conditions. An experimental investigation of these effects is described in this paper."
"Electrical methods of prospecting are becoming increasingly important as the search (or hidden deposits of ore extends deeper and deeper below the surface of the earth. Electrical prospecting is not limited to this use, however; it has found many valuable applications in engineering and in geology. The 4 general methods of electrical prospecting are described briefly in this paper."
"Calculated values of inductance of steel reënforced aluminum cable, presented in this paper, show that previously published values of inductance obtained experimentally are in error by amounts ranging up to 5 per cent. Furthermore, all these errors are on the low side, that is, the unsafe side from the standpoint of the design engineer."
"It is well known that the effects of magnetic saturation are important in modifying the operating characteristics of synchronous machines. In this paper is shown a method of accurately taking into account these effects on the balanced steady-state operation of a cylindrical rotor synchronous machine by using a saturated value of the synchronous reactance. The expression for this reactance is derived directly from fundamental principles, and its use in calculating machine characteristics accurately is illustrated on a typical steady state stability problem."
"Many applications of “kilocycle kilowatts” (electric power at frequencies of 1,000 to 100,000 cycles per second) have not been feasible because of the high cost of equipment for generating such power. In this paper, a new source of kilocycle power employing an electronic tube called the arc tube is described. The cost of the arc tube and its associated equipment is lower than that of other sources of kilocycle power; its frequency is readily adjustable."
"In this paper a circuit is described that holds the average speed of a d-c shunt-wound machine as constant as the standard reference used (for which the most precise standard known can be employed) and holds the instantaneous speed very close to standard speed if there are not sudden changes of load or applied voltage. The machine is positively indexed in phase with respect to the standard. In addition to its precision, the method is characterized by its simplicity and general applicability over a considerable part of the range of d-c machine speed and capacity."
"Calculations of electrical characteristics of coreless induction furnaces usually are made by means of the penetration formula (equation 18 in this paper); this formula, however, gives only an approximation which is fairly accurate only at relatively high frequencies. As a wide range of frequencies can be used in these furnaces, there is a need for calculations that are good at any frequency; to meet this need, the fundamental calculations upon which the penetration formula is based are presented in this paper."
"Sparking under the brushes of commutating machinery has been investigated in considerable detail, for the purpose of studying and analyzing the various factors which cause sparking. Among the conclusions reached are that in a detailed consideration of sparking phenomena both current density and rate of change of current density must be taken into account."
"Discussion of a paper by J. B. Whitehead and E. W. Greenfield published in the October 1934 issue, pages 1389–96, and in the November 1934 issue, pages 1498–1503, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by J. E. Clem published in the January 1935 issue, pages 30–40, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by E. H. Salter, G. B. Shanklin, and R. J. Wiseman published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1581–9, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by F. M. Clark published in the January 1935 issue, pages 50–5, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by C. L. Gilkeson and P. A. Jeanne published in the September 1934 issue, pages 130–19, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by C. H. Willis, B. D. Bedford, and F. R. Elder published in the January 1935 issue, pages 102–8, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by Philip Sporn and I. W. Gross published in the January 1935 issue, pages 66–73, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by K. B. McEachron published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1633–7, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by O. A. Browne and W. L. Vest, Jr., published in the January 1935 issue, pages 109–15, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by W. B. Buchanan published in the November 1934 issue, pages 1478–85, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935."
"THE meeting of the South West District of the A.I.E.E. will be held at Oklahoma City, Okla., from Wednesday to Friday, April 24–26, 1935. The convention of the student Branches of the South West District will be conducted jointly with this meeting on April 25 and 26. Headquarters will be at the Skirvin Hotel, where all the technical sessions will be held. The 14th floor, known as the Skirvin Roof, will be retained exclusively for the use of the meetings during the 3 days; the technical sessions will be held in the Venetian Room and the student sessions will be held in the Rose Room. An attractive program consisting of 5 technical sessions, inspection trips, dinner and dance, and a golf tournament has been arranged by the committee. A special entertainment feature has been planned for the visiting women."
"The development of the program for the 51st annual summer convention of the Institute, to be held on the campus of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, 1935, is progressing rapidly. Advantage will be taken of the splendid facilities which the university offers in the way of meeting halls and modern dormitory accommodations to present an enlarged program at moderate cost to those who will be in attendance."
"DURING the recent winter convention of the A.I.E.E. held in New York, N. Y., Jan. 22–25, 1935, many of the general and technical committees of the Institute held meetings. A summary of each of these meetings is given in the following paragraphs, with the exception of the meetings of those few committees for which no adequate reports were available for publication. Activities of one of these, the standards committee, are reported month by month in the “standards” department of Electrical Engineering."
"N OIL gusher in the oil field adjacent to Oklahoma City, Okla., before it was placed under control. This oil field will be visited by most of those attending the South West District meeting of the A.I.E.E., to be held in Oklahoma City, April 24–26, 1935. This oil fild, another view of which was shown in Electrical Engineering for February 1935, page 105, has 1,032 wells producing, with an average of one well for every 6 acres. The connected capacity for pumping and other purposes in this field is 25,000 horsepower; with the amount continually increasing. The Reda pump is used extensively in this field, the pump and motor being located in the bottom of a well, some installations being made as low as 6,000 feet below the surface. The motor varies in size from 75 to 110 horsepower and is placed inside the 6 inch casing."
"The committee in charge of arrangements for the Institute's forthcoming Pacific Coast convention has definitely selected the dates of August 27–30, 1935, for the convention. It will be held at Seattle, Wash. Committees are being appointed and plans are being made for an interesting technical program and attractive entertainment features."
"Engineers and technical men in all parts of the country call on the service bureau of the Engineering Societies Library for exact, technically accurate translations because they know that they will find there a well equipped staff that can handle translations from any language and on any aspect of engineering."
"AUTHORS who plan to present papers before the Institute during the calendar year 1935, and others who may wish to submit papers for prizes, would do well to bear in mind that such papers are eligible for consideration for Institute prizes. These awards are made each spring for papers presented during the preceding calendar year and fall into 2 main classes, national and District prizes."
"THE work in which the Engineers' Council for Professional Development is low actively engaged is being carried on by its 4 working committees, namely, the committee on student selection and guidance, committee on professional training, committee on engineering schools, and committee on professional recognition. In an article “E.C.P.D. Reports Substantial Progress During 1934” which appeared in Electrical Engineering for February 1935, pages 249–50, a brief résumé of the work accomplished by these 4 committees was given. Further details of the work of the committee on engineering schools is given in the present article."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. STATEMENTS in these letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"HENRY E. WARREN (A'02) president of the Warren Telechron Company, Ashland, Mass., has been awarded the 1934 Lamme Medal of the A.I.E.E. This medal, which will be presented to Mr. Warren at the 1935 summer convention of the Institute which is to be held at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, was awarded him “for outstanding contributions to the development of electric clocks and means for controlling central station frequencies.” Mr. Warren was born in Boston, Mass., May 21, 1872, and graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology with the degree of bachelor of science in 1894. From 1897 to 1902 he served as electrical and mechanical engineer of the Saginaw Valley Traction Company at Saginaw, Mich. Returning to Boston in 1902 he became engineer and general superintendent of the Lombard Governor Company, which position he held during the next 16 years. In 1904 the factory was moved from Boston to Ashland, Mass. While associated with this company he made improvements in the design of hydraulic speed governors which were installed in many of the largest water power plants of the United States. During the World War he designed several types of hydraulically operated machines which were used in the production of heavy shells and he also developed a new type of fire control mechanism. In 1907 Mr. Warren settled on a farm in the town of Ashland. Here he spent considerable time and thought in designing and constructing various forms of electric clocks as an avocation. One of the farm buildings was converted into a workshop. After several years of experimenting the Warren Clock Company was organized in 1912 to build and sell battery operated clocks. Not satisfied with the product, he undertook in 1916 the problem of utilizing commercial alternating current for the purpose of time-keeping. This involved first, the invention of a new form of self-starting synchronous motor which would be adaptable for use in clocks under conditions quite different from those to which ordinary power motors are subjected; and second, the development of an instrument for measuring frequency with great precision, which later became known as a Warren master clock. Then it was necessary to persuade engineers of power companies to use this instrument so that the frequency of alternating current might be controlled with sufficient accuracy. These objectives were reached before the end of 1916, when the Edison Electric Illuminating Company of Boston adopted the new method of frequency regulation by means of the first Warren master clock. Other companies soon recognized the merits of the idea and within 10 years the use of regulated alternating current as a new kind of time service became general. As a result, the proportion of electric clocks to all clocks exclusive of alarm clocks produced and sold annually has risen from less than 2 per cent in 1916 to more than 60 per cent in 1933 and the increase still continues. Mr. Warren has been engaged since 1916 in adapting time-keeping synchronous motors to many fields of usefulness and in providing improved devices for frequency control. More than 100 patents have been granted to him. During the past 15 years he has served as president of the Warren Telechron Company and consulting engineer for the General Electric Company. He has held several town offices, is actively concerned with the Boy Scouts of America, and has been involved in numerous public enterprises. He has presented several technical papers on the subject of electric time keeping before the Institute and other organizations."
"LESLIE LAWRENCE PERRY (F'22) advisory electrical engineer, Sargent and Lundy, Inc., Chicago, Ill., died at Cuttingsville, Vt., on February 1, 1935. He was born July 13, 1874, at Lawrence, Mass., and was a graduate of Tufts College, receiving the degree of bachelor of science in electrical engineering in 1896. Later, in 1906, he received the degree of master of science. After experience in the engineering and testing departments of the General Electric Company at Schenectady, N. Y., during the period 1897–1900 he went to South America, and was employed by F. S. Pearson (A'92, M'93, deceased 1915), consulting engineer, on the construction of the power and railway systems in the city of Sao Paulo, Brazil. In 1903 he went to Canada, where he was engaged on the construction of the system supplying power from Niagara Falls to Toronto. From 1905 to 1909 he was again in South America, having charge of the electrical design of the power and railway system for Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The following 2 years were spent in the power and mining department of the General Electric Company at Schenectady, after which Mr. Perry joined the staff of Sargent and Lundy, where he was engaged in the electrical design of large steam power stations, substations, and transmission and distribution systems for cities throughout the United States. He had been advisory electrical engineer since 1930. Mr. Perry had been serving on the Institute's power transmission and distribution committee since 1928, and had presented papers before the Institute. He was also a member of the Western Society of Engineers (Chicago)."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting held February 19, 1935, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Westinghouse Awarded Steel Mill Order. — The first important steel mill electrification announced in 1935 includes an award to the Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co. for part of the electrical equipment to be installed in the McDonald Works of the Carnegie Steel Co., near Youngstown, O. Large d-c motors, totaling 16,000 hp, motor generator sets, and control equipment comprise the bulk of the order. The new mill is expected to be in operation this summer."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This gorge, in Taughannock State Park, is about 11 miles from Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. The top of the fall is 215 feet above the man shown standing on the rocks at the right. The Institute's 51st annual summer convention will be held on the campus of Cornell University, June 24–28, 1935."
"The demand for strictly professional engineering service will diminish in volume but will rise sharply in its qualitative standards, while the demand for quasi-professional services will increase markedly. This is one of the opinions voiced by Doctor Wickenden in a recent address,∗ full text of which is presented herewith. In order to prepare men to furnish these services most effectively, he concludes that their education should consist of a common matrix of 3 years, with a terminal year for men who purpose to enter the general service field, and a longer period of more profound and generalized scientific studies for those who aspire to the professional field — not a separate route for the purely professional engineer, but a “second mile.”"
"An improved electrothermic instrument for measuring watts, amperes, or volt-amperes, actuated by the thermal expansion of a liquid in a closed system which includes a Bourdon tube, is described in this paper. The new instrument is not subject to the errors inherent in the bimetallic strip type of electrothermic instrument, it has a linear input-deflection characteristic, and its time period may be adjusted readily to any desired value up to at least 60 minutes."
"The rapid increase in the use of electric power equipment in steel plants in the United States during the last 3 decades is outlined briefly in this paper, and the principal types of apparatus now in use are discussed. Power generation and distribution equipment is considered briefly and the types of electric motors used in different kinds of main mill drives are outlined. Synchronous motors and d-c motors are shown to have largely superseded the use of induction motors."
"An automatic stroboscopic power angle recorder developed to study directly the transient performance of synchronous machines during load disturbances is described in this paper. A portion of the machine under observation is illuminated by stroboscopic light, and its oscillations are recorded directly by a moving-film camera. The operation of the device is made automatic by connecting a suitable relay in its circuit. A typical installation on a hydroelectric generator is described."
"The rapid deceleration of induction motors from relatively high speeds to standstill by the application of constant potential to the terminals is considered in this paper. Applications in which d-c braking of induction motors is desirable are mentioned, and the fundamental principles involved in this method of braking are considered. The characteristics of the speed-torque curve are derived from these principles. The practical application of d-c braking is demonstrated by the results of extensive tests, and a simple means of calculating the approximate values of current and wattage necessary for braking is included."
"Marking a new milestone in the history of the transmission of electric power, the 275 kv system that will transmit power from Boulder Dam to Los Angeles, Calif., embodies many novel engineering features. These features are discussed in this paper. The paper includes not only a description of the line and the terminal equipment and facilities, but also a discussion of the effects of the characteristics of each portion of the system on the performance of the system as a whole. The engineering studies and laboratory research on system stability, corona, high voltage impulses, lightning, conductor vibration, tower stresses, footing uplifts, and other factors are described, and the use of such data in the selection of line voltage, conductors, insulation, clamps, lightning protection, towers, and appropriate generating, transforming, and receiving end equipment is shown."
"Time-temperature tests as a means of measuring losses in electrical machines are described in this paper, and some of the results which have been secured with such tests are described. The method consists principally in determining by test the initial slope of the time-temperature curve of some part of the machine, immediately after a steady load is thrown off. In this paper, application to the analysis of losses in turbine generators is described, although the method can be applied to other electrical apparatus."
"The fundamental reactions in accordance with the generally accepted “double-sulphate” theory of storage battery charging are comparatively simple. Additional reactions and phenomena, such as gas evolution, acid concentration, heating, and local action are factors which affect charging conditions. Data showing the effects of these factors are given in this paper. The ampere-hour law regarding charging rates is illustrated. Results of constant voltage and modified constant voltage charging are given, and constant voltage floating and trickle charging are discussed. Various means of automatic control for charging batteries in different classes of service are given, some of these schemes involving the use of ampere-hour meters and voltage relays."
"For problems involving induction motors other than the usual balanced winding type operating under steady-state conditions, a general method of analysis is necessary. In this paper, a general analysis is presented, and in particular, its use in short-circuit problems is described. The comparison between tests and calculated results indicates that the method does properly describe induction motor phenomena."
"Actual interruption of an a-c circuit depends upon the ability of the circuit breaker to prevent the re-establishment of the arc after the current goes through zero and the arc goes out. In some circuits full voltage appears across the contacts as quickly as 40 to 80 microseconds following the current zero. This recovery rate in volts per microsecond depends upon the triple product of: the current interrupted, the normal frequency of the system, and the recovery impedance in ohms of the external circuit. The calculation of circuit recovery rates is given in this paper by presenting in curve and table form the ohmic recovery impedance, and its components, for all the practical circuits found in the field."
"Up to the present, applications of induction generators have been limited, mainly because they must be paralleled with an existing synchronous system to determine their frequency and voltage and to obtain their necessary excitation. The tests described in this paper show that an induction machine may be operated as an independent or isolated generator at a predetermined voltage and frequency, with excellent wave form, by means of capacitive excitation. Further, proper choice and arrangement of the capacitors will result in a practically flat external load-voltage characteristic."
"The effects of magnetic saturation on the various types of reactances used in calculations on synchronous machines are considered in this paper. Saturation factors for the important constants used in transient and unbalanced load calculations are presented in curve form. These data are taken from short-circuit tests on a large number of machines. The saturation factor for transient reactance under conditions encountered in stability calculations is difficult to test directly so the test data are supplemented by theoretical calculations."
"Complex hyperbolic function charts covering the range ordinarily found in problems dealing with long electric power transmission lines are presented herewith. By restricting the charts to this range, it has been possible to draw them to a large scale so that good accuracy can be obtained from these comparatively small charts."
"In order to provide additional space for the publication of summer convention papers in this issue the discussion has been limited to a total of 5 pages, in which appear the discussion of a paper presented at the 1934 A.I.E.E. North Eastern District meeting, Worcester, Mass., May 16–18, and several discussions and one authors' closure of papers presented at the 1935 A.I.E.E. winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22–25, 1935. Other discussions of winter convention papers appear in Electrical Engineering for March 1935, pages 322–35, and April 1935, pages 431–9; further discussions and authors' closures will be published in later issues."
"Discussion of a paper by C. F. Wagner published in the March 1934 issue, pages 418–25, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convenson, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by Philip Spom and I. W. Gross published in the January 1935 issue, pases 66–73, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussions of this paper were published in the March 1935 issue, pases 329–32."
"Discussion of a paper by J. C. Balsbaugh, N. D. Kenney, and Alfred Herzenberg published in the March 1935 issue, pages 272–9, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the North Eastern District meeting, Worcester, Mass., May 16, 1934."
"A PROGRAM replete with activities of interest to the profession has been arranged for the 51st annual summer convention of the Institute to be held on the campus of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, 1935. The annual business meeting, conference of officers, delegates, and members, board of directors' meeting, 10 technical sessions, and a number of technical conferences assure a busy and profitable week for those who wish to keep pace with Institute affairs and the progress of the art. Also, sports, trips, and recreation, as well as entertainment for the visiting women, have not been overlooked. The evenings will be devoted mainly to social functions. All these activities are offered to members and guests at a very reasonable cost, made possible by the splendid facilities which Cornell University affords in a beautiful scenic setting. A large attendance is expected."
"Balch Hall, one of a group of residential halls available for housing guests at the Institute's annual summer convention to be held this year on the campus of Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28. The exterior of this hall is shown here, together with an interior view of one of the students' rooms."
"For the purpose of improving the quality of the meetings of the Institute's numerous Sections, and increasing the interest of members in them, the circulation of ideas among the Sections is desirable. I. Melville Stein, chairman of the A.I.E.E. Sections committee, has summarized the practices of a few of the Sections which depart somewhat from customary procedure, and for the benefit of other Sections, these items are presented herewith:"
"Developments in the co-operative program of engineering societies, educators, and representatives of state licensing boards looking toward the improvement of the engineering profession and the enhancement of the status of its members are recorded in the second annual report of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development, published on April 15, 1935."
"Results of the election held by The Engineering Foundation at its annual meeting February 21, 1935, and a summary of the annual report of The Engineering Foundation for 1934, were presented in Electrical Engineering for April 1935, pages 457–9. Supplementing this information, the following brief item on activities of Engineering Foundation since January 1, 1935, may be of interest. As pointed out in the previous issue, The Engineering Foundation is a department of United Engineering Trustees, Inc., joint agency of the 4 national societies representing the civil, mining and metallurgical, mechanical, and electrical engineers, and its present preferred activity is research."
"American Engineering Council, as the agency of its sponsor societies and allied groups, is actively negotiating in Washington with regard to the engineers' part in the vast program of the $4,880,000,000 work-relief bill which gives to the president all of the money and most of the power he first asked."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely."
"Elihu Thomson (A'84, M'91, F'13, HM'28, past-president, and member for life) consulting engineer, General Electric Company, and director, Thomson Research Laboratory, Lynn, Mass., was awarded the medal of honor of the Verein Deutscher Ingenieure on the occasion of his eighty-second birthday in March 1935. The society which presents this outstanding award of the German engineering profession is the oldest and largest of engineering societies in the world, and the award has previously been conferred upon only 5 non-Germans, only one of whom, the late C. W. Rice (A'97, M'97, F'12) was an American. The citation read, “On Elihu Thomson, the great pioneer in the realm of engineering, the inventor and research scientist, the promoter of co-operation among engineers, there is conferred, on the anniversary of his eighty-second birthday, the V.D.I, medal of honor.” Doctor Thomson was confined to his home by ill health, and the medal was accepted on his behalf by E. W. Rice, Jr. (A'87, M'88, F'13, HM'33, past-president, and member for life). Many honors and awards for his achievements have previously been bestowed upon Doctor Thomson, who was one of the founders of the General Electric Company and holds more than 700 United States patents. He was a vice president of the Institute 1887–89, and president 1889–90, later serving as a member of the Edison medal committee, 1910–15, and as representative on the United States National Committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission, 1914–30."
"Kenneth A. Reed (A'19) chief engineer, electrical division, Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company, Hartford, Conn., died March 23, 1935. Mr. Reed was born at Gregory, Ark., January 30, 1883. Following graduation from the University of Arkansas with the degree of bachelor of electrical engineering in 1907 he entered the apprenticeship course of the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company at Cincinnati, Ohio. The next year he was employed in the operating department of the Northwest Water and Light Company, Yakima, Wash., and in 1910 joined the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company in St. Louis, Mo., as an electrical engineer. He was engaged in construction work until 1917, when he became assistant district superintendent. In 1918 Mr. Reed accepted the position of maintenance engineer in the electrical operating division of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company, New York, N. Y., where he had charge of the maintenance of central stations and substations. Leaving this position in 1921 and joining the Hartford Insurance Company, Mr. Reed assisted in the creation of the then new insurance of electrical machinery. His principal responsibility was the organization of an inspection service for electrical machinery that would minimize preventable losses, and papers on the subject written by him have been published in technical journals. At the time of his death Mr. Reed was a member of the electrical machinery committee of the Institute, on which he had served since 1931, and for several years he was a member of the electrical apparatus committee of the National Electric Light Association (now Edison Electric Institute)."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following list of candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary."
"General Electric Sales Rise. — Sales billed by the General Electric Company for the first quarter of 1935 amounted to $40,393,-538, compared with $34,935,551 for the same quarter a year ago, an increase of 16%, President Gerard Swope announced to stockholders of the company at their annual meeting on April 16. Orders received during the first three months this year totaled $49,379,932, compared with $38,-148,654 for the same period of 1934, an increase of 29%."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"CORRECTION — A correction on \"Application of Electron Tubes in Industry\" which paper appeared in the January 1935 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, is published in the \"Letters to the Editor\" columns of the present issue. The correction concerns electron tube control for resistance welding {page 1018). As this issue goes to press, the Institute's Pacific Coast convention is being held in Seattle, WA, USA, August 27-30 (and not September 27-30, as was stated erroneously on the cover of the August issue). A full report of the convention is scheduled for inclusion in the October issue."
"TOGETHER we stand at the threshold of another Institute year, looking forward from the point of vantage attained by our officers, directors, committee chairmen, and active members."
"An address delivered at the annual joint meeting of the Institute's New York (N. Y.) Section and the New York Student Branch convention held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, N. Y., April 26, 1935. Manuscript submitted April 19, 1935, released for publication June 15, 1935. Of the many fields of activity open to the young electrical engineer, one of the most fascinating and abundant in opportunities for important developments is that of industrial electrochemistry. A survey of the recent advances which have been made in this field shows the striking wealth of new products and new processes, many of these being of great commercial value. For the future, opportunities for the engineer to make new discoveries are even greater."
"The determination of speed-time curves and current-time curves as related to the duty cycles of electric railway motors may be greatly simplified by the use of an electrograph which has been developed, thereby making unnecessary the usual calculations which require considerable time. In this machine, the curves are drawn on an oscillograph screen. The equipment, which' can also be used to obtain other characteristics, depends for its operation upon the similarity of equations in the mechanics of train movement and those involved in the electrograph circuit."
"Mid-taps on the secondaries of a 3-phase delta-connected transformer bank enable loads to be supplied simultaneously at full voltage and half voltage. Although the nonuniform loading of the different windings makes an exact determination of the maximum permissible loads difficult, equations and curves have been developed to facilitate these calculations. A rating factor is included which permits the rating of the transformer bank to be expressed in terms of the maximum current in any portion of the windings. Equations for voltage regulation with balanced loads and similar transformer units have been developed."
"Continuing an investigation of lightning effects on power transmission lines, a recent study confirms previously reached conclusions as to the effectiveness of overhead and buried ground wires. Also, direct stroke surge currents of from 2,000 to 100,000 amperes in tower structures were measured with the surge crest ammeter, and total stroke currents up to 220,000 amperes were indicated. Values for the rate of build-up of direct stroke currents and values of potentials in the tower were obtained. Negative polarity clouds were found to be the source of almost all direct strokes."
"The time interval required for ignition or “firing” of an igniter type of rectifier tube is found to vary in a statistically systematic manner between successive operations. When in continuous operation with igniter rod potential gradients greater than a critical value the median firing time is an inverse exponential function of the gradient in the rod. If the gradient be reduced gradually below the critical value the firing time rapidly approaches infinity, corresponding to failure to ignite at all. Temperature rise of the rod caused by continuous operation of the tube results in a marked reduction in resistance, critical gradient, and median firing time."
"Design and operating features of a multi-harmonic electrostatic audio frequency generator are described in this paper. The harmonics are generated singly by the rotation of a shielded segmented disk adjacent to a stationary wave pattern plate; the resulting changes in capacitance between disk and plate produce a sinusoidal charging and discharging current through an input resistance of a vacuum tube amplifier. Each harmonic is controlled independently in amplitude and in phase, and provisions are made for combining any 2 or more harmonics to obtain complex wave forms. Although designed specifically for psychological tests, the device should prove useful in any work requiring a flexible audio frequency supply of small capacity."
"The effect of ultraviolet light upon the breakdown voltage of sphere gaps subjected to impulse voltages is considered in this paper. It is shown that, especially for the smaller gaps and corresponding lower voltages, more accurate voltage measurements result when ultraviolet light is used. Photoelectric emission from the surface of the spheres is believed to be the cause of the improved accuracy. Without ultraviolet light, variations in the number of free electrons affect the result."
"In presenting the results of his studies of the magnetic field in and near the conductors of electrical machinery, the author seeks to fill the sap existing between the present accurate but difficult methods and the easier but less accurate methods of drawing and calculating these fields."
"Television is being actively promoted in several European countries, principally Great Britain and Germany. In order to make available to individuals in the United States the present status of television in Europe, the U.S. Department of Commerce sent Andrew W. Cruse on a 2 months' study of television developments in England, Germany, and France. The article which follows is based upon an address delivered by Mr. Cruse upon his return."
"Engineers often find it convenient to be able to determine the various currents and voltages in an electrical system not merely for one fixed condition, but for any value of any impedance element from zero to infinity. In an effort to facilitate such computations, the method presented in this paper has been developed. Although the method as presented is applied specifically to the star-star (Y-Y) circuit, the treatment is said to be applicable also to other circuits. All voltages and currents in this circuit are shown to follow circular loci when any self-impedance is varied; these loci are determined by the use of a circle in the form of a linear fractional transformation. The practical application of the method is illustrated by numerical examples."
"The analysis of wave norms in circuits containing rectifiers is in reality a study of transient conditions which repeat cyclically. This paper presents a method of solution for such circuits by means of Fourier series, assuming initially a perfect rectifier with sinusoidal applied voltage. It shows, for cases in which the rectifier conducts current continuously, that the curve of voltage output from rectifier to d-c load consists of sinusoidal segments, and that the series for this voltage can be used, term by term, to find the current series. In some circuits the rectifier conducts current for only a portion of the cycle; in such cases the voltage curve consists of sinusoidal parts joined by sections of other forms. Wave forms are found by computation for several typical circuits, and verified by oscillograms."
"On this and the following 19 pages appear discussions of papers presented at the distribution & transmission and insulation & protection sessions of the South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 24–26, 1935, and at the instruments and measurements, power generation, and selected subjects sessions of the 1935 A.I.E.E. summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Authors' closing discussion of a paper published in the January 1934 issue, pages 176–82, and presented for oral discussion at the insulation and protection session of the South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 24, 1935. This paper was also presented at the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1934, and other discussion was published in the March 1934 issue, pages 478–81, April 1934 issue, pages 618–22, September 1934 issue, page 1311, and July 1935 issue, pages 888–90. C. F. Hill, T, R., Watts, and G. A. Burr: Probably one of the chief benefits to the electrical industry accruing from the presentation of our paper has been the wealth of test data brought forth by the discussers, which otherwise might not have been published."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by P. M. Lincoln, published in the May 1935 issue, pages 474–81, and presented for oral discussion at the instruments and measurements session at the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 25, 1935. True McLean (Cornell Univ., Ithaca, N. Y.): In his paper on “Rates and Rate Making” written in 1915, Prof. P. M. Lincoln showed that the instrument shown schematically in improved form in figure 6 of the present article is a true wattmeter. In the present article he has described improvements in the thermal and mechanical systems so that errors due to thermal and mechanical causes can be reduced to very small percentages. In all previous instruments of this general type, the errors were relatively so large that a rather crude electrical system was so much better than the rest of the apparatus, that refinements of the electrical system were a total waste of effort."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by C. M. Foust and J. T. Henderson published in the April 1935 issue, pages 373–8, and presented for oral discussion at the instruments and measurements session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 25, 1935. W. W. Lewis (General Elec. Co., Schenectady, N. Y.): It may be of interest to list some applications of surge crest ammeter magnets which have been made in the past 2 or 3 years. The towers of the following lines have been completely equipped, in some cases with 4 brackets and in the remainder of the cases with one bracket per tower: The Pennsylvania Power and Light Company's 220 kv, 65 mile Wallenpaupack-Siegfried line, the Appalachian Electric Power Company's 132 kv, 65 mile Glenlyn-Roanoke line, the Pennsylvania Water and Power Company's 220 Kv, 70 mile Safe Harbor-Westport line, and the Philadelphia Electric Company's 66 kv, 14 mile Philadelphia-Chester line."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by T. A. Abbott and J. H. Goss, published in the April 1935 issue, pages 428–31, and presented for oral discussion at the instruments and measurements session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 25, 1935. L. D. Price (Public Service Elec. and Gas Co., Paterson, N. J.): As the authors have pointed out, developments in watthour meter design over the period of the past several years have left the lower bearing as probably the one remaining weak spot in the meter. Realizing this and attempting to gather further knowledge of meter bearings, the Public Service Elec. and Gas Company is conducting a laboratory test on 306 watt-hour meters at Paterson, N. J. The purposes of the test are to study the effect of varied degrees of lubrication on sustained meter accuracies, to ascertain the causes of jewel failure, and, if possible, to determine the maximum length of test schedule economically possible under present operating conditions. The meters are representative single element meters of American manufacture; both natural and synthetic jewels are being used and the tests are conducted under classification 2 of the suggested means of obtaining test data at normal speeds under various loading conditions designed to approximate actual service conditions. We felt that this method of test was preferable to the accelerated test because of the time factor involved in the possible breaking down of the lubricant."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by L H. Hill published in the February 1935 issue, pages 154–8, and presented for oral discussion at the distribution and transmission session of the South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 26, 1935. F. L. Snyder (Westinghouse Elec. and Mfg. Co., Sharon, Pa.): As pointed out by the author the development of the step type voltage regulator was the natural result of the experience of both manufacturers and operators with load tap changers on power transformers. As a matter of fact, there is nothing new about the theory of a step type regulator. Several manufacturers of electrical machinery have been building step type regulators for the past 10 years and there are several million kva of installed capacity of such equipment. Step type regulators of the type which manufacturers have been building for some time have, however, been too expensive for application to distribution circuits and the step voltage regulator of the general type described in this paper consists of a smaller and less expensive regulator which can be economically justified on distribution circuits. Apparatus of the same general type as that described is being built by several other manufacturers. (See “Step Voltage Regulators,” F. L. Snyder, Electric Journal, June 1934)."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by P. E. Benner presented for oral discussion at the distribution and transmission session of the South West District meeting Oklahoma City, Okla., April 26, 1935, and published in the August 1935 issue, pages 832–7. V. C. Gillon (nonmember; Oklahoma Gas and Electric Co., Oklahoma City): Certainly this paper is indeed most appropriate at a time when capital expenditures for power generation and transmission systems are small and the expenditures for distribution systems relatively large. This condition, brought about by low industrial loads but continually increasing residential loads, has diverted more and more administrative and technical engineering thought to the distribution system."
"Discussion of paper by H. M. Cushing published in the June 1935 issue, pages 632–45, and presented for oral discussion at the power generation session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 25, 1935. C. M. Gilt (Brooklyn Edison Co., Brooklyn, N. Y.): The engineers who designed the Huntley Station No. 2 had the good fortune of being able to make a combined design of distribution system and generating station without having to adapt the station to an existing distribution system. In so doing they were among the first to take advantage of the 2-winding principle which has been used in both generators and transformers. By means of this, circuit breaker current capacities and interrupting ratings are reduced, the need for bus reactors is eliminated or greatly reduced, the reactance between bus sections is high while the normal through reactance from generator to load is kept low. Associated with these advantages are 2 disadvantages, one of which is the fact that there is no independent control of voltage and phase angle of the 2 windings with the result that unequal loadings result in unequal voltages and phase angle differences between bus sections. It is especially important that voltage and phase angle differences be kept small when a low voltage network is fed directly from the generating station busses without intervening feeder regulation. Comparatively small phase angle differences may trip open and cause frequent operation of sensitive network switches on lightly loaded transformers or cause overloads on heavily loaded transformers. The other disadvantage resulting from the 2 winding designs is the impracticability of transferring load from one bus section to another through the transformer (or generator) tying the bus sections together. This condition may result in real loss in station economy if it requires operating units with loadings that differ materially from those giving maximum station economy."
"Discussion of a paper by R. E. Greene, published in the June 1935 issue, pages 610–17, and presented for oral discussion at the power generation session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N.Y., June 25, 1935. C. M. Gilt (Brooklyn Edison Co., Brooklyn, N. Y.): The problem presented by the existence of more or less obsolete generating plants and the need for increased capacity is one that will become more pressing for many power companies as load increases during the next few years. The choice must be made between building a new plant and retaining the old for reserve and peak duty, building a new plant and scrapping the old one, or rebuilding the old plant. There is no general solution to the problem but each case must be settled on its merits."
"Discussion of a paper by L. F. Woodruff published in the May 1935 issue, pages 550–4. A. E. Kennelly (Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.): The charts offered in the paper will be serviceable to transmission engineers and to all those who are interested in alternating current lines having at operating frequency an angle not exceeding 0.4 in size."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by R. W. Sorensen, J. E. Hobson, and Simon Ramo, published in the June 1935 issue, pages 651–6, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 27, 1935. A. O. Austin (consulting engr., Barberton, Ohio): The authors have carried out a very effective method of checking root mean square values with means at the disposal of practically any high voltage laboratory. Anyone making high voltage measurements is continually running up against conditions upon which it is desired to make a check, and since the method involves no elaborate equipment it can be readily carried out. Where the wave form is good the method may be used for checking crest values. It would seem that the method is primarily applicable for calibration purposes. The capacitance calculations of the sphere gap can also be used very effectively for determining crest voltages which I believe have a wider application than the determination of root mean square values. With the close control of frequency the determination of voltage with an ammeter in series with a capacitor of known capacitance is very simple."
"The meeting of the Great Lakes District of the A.I.E.E. will be held at Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind., on Thursday and Friday, October 24 and 25, 1935. The Friday morning session of this convention will be devoted to the best papers selected from the various Student Branches of this District. All meetings, with the exception of the dinner meeting, will be held in the new electrical engineering building on the North Campus (directly on route 52 and 152 between Chicago and Indianapolis). Conference and club facilities including meals are available in the Purdue Memorial Union Building, 2 blocks from the meeting place. A varied technical program, a dinner, dance, inspection trips to the factory of the Duncan Electric Manufacturing Company in Lafayette and the various buildings and laboratories of the university have been arranged during the 2 day session to be followed by the university home-coming program and football game with Carnegie Institute of Technology on Saturday."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., on August 6, 1935."
"A report on the publication policy of the Institute presented at the conference of officers, delegates, and members held during the recent A.I.E.E. summer convention at Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, 1935, by C. O. Bickelhaupt, chairman of the A.I.E.E. publication committee. The objects of the Institute are “the advancement of the theory and practice of electrical engineering and of the allied arts and sciences, and the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members.” The publication service is one of the most useful and important means of accomplishing these purposes, and is a tangible record of service to the membership."
"The Student Branches of the Institute's North Eastern District, number one, held a convention at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, N. Y., on May 3 and 4, 1935. The student convention was held because there was no meeting of the North Eastern District this year on account of the holding of the summer convention at Cornell University, and this convention came after the school year was closed. Lodging was provided in the college dormitories at an extremely low rate."
"A report of the experiences with Section technical committees obtained by the Institute's Portland, Ore., Section during the past year, presented at the conference of officers, delegates, and members during the Institute's summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, 1935, by John Bankus, chairman of the Portland Section for 1935–36, and secretary-treasurer for 1934–35. The matter of organizing technical committees in both Sections and Districts was discussed at considerable length at the Institute's 1934 summer convention at Hot to obtain men who are not only competent but who are also greatly interested in the Institute and technical committee activities. The technical committee chairmen were made responsible for the programs and the proper functioning of their respective committees. However, notices of meetings were sent out by the Section secretary."
"The 8th annual conference of student Branches of the Institute's North Central District, number 6, was held at North Dakota State College, Fargo, April 12–13, 1935. There was a total registered attendance of 83, which included, in addition to R. B. Bonney, vice president of the North Central District, and W. G. Rubel, secretary of the District, the following student counselors and Branch chairmen:"
"Gustav Lindenthal, dean of American bridge engineers, died at his home in Metuchen, N. J., on July 31, 1935. His best known works are the arch bridge of the New York Connecting Railroad over the East River at Hell Gate, New York, N. Y., and the Sciotoville continuous bridge over the Ohio River, near Portsmouth, Ohio."
"William P. Mulholland, nationally known hydraulic engineer and builder of the Los Angeles-Owens River aqueduct in California, died at Los Angeles, Calif., July 22, 1935. Doctor Mulholland was born in Belfast, Ireland, September 11, 1855, and came to the United States in 1872. From 1886 until his death he was with the Bureau of Water Works and Supply of the city of Los Angeles, Calif., as chief engineer and general manager. The work for which he was the best known was the construction of the Los Angeles-Owens River aqueduct which was built by the Bureau of Water Works and Supply, at a cost of $24,500,000, for bringing water 250 miles to the city from the Sierra Nevada Mountains, north of the city."
"Membership for life is granted by the Institute for either of the following 2 reasons: a member has attained a term of membership of 35 years; or has reached the age of 70 and has attained a term of membership of 3.0 years."
"American engineering council is undertaking a new service for the benefit of the national, state, and local societies which hold membership in A.E.C., this service having for its purpose the aiding of the societies in their public affairs, public relations, and allied activities. It supersedes the supplement for state and local societies previously issued with its monthly “News Letter.” Council states that the reason for assuming this responsibility is that it is anxious to do everything possible, within its limitations, to aid the affiliated societies with their social, economic, and political problems, in addition to co-operating with the national societies in their technical and professional activies."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely. ALL letters submitted for consideration should be the original typewritten copy, double spaced. Any illustrations submitted should be in duplicate, one copy to be an inked drawing but without lettering, and other to be lettered. Captions should be furnished for all illustrations"
"J. V. B. Duer (A'15, F'29) electrical engineer of the Pennsylvania Railroad, Philadelphia, Pa., has been appointed to the position of chief electrical engineer of the company. Mr. Duer was born at Poultney, Vt., in 1882, and graduated from Stevens Institute of Technology in 1903, with the degree of mechanical engineer. Upon graduation he became an electrical apprentice for the General Electric Company, spending one year at Lynn, Mass., and 2 years at Schenectady, N. Y. From 1906 until 1910, he was with the Long Island Railroad as wire-man, electrical inspector, and chief clerk to the train master of electrified lines. In 1910, he was transferred to the Pennsylvania Railroad and for the following 3 years, while electric operation was being inaugurated into Pennsylvania Station, New York City, was foreman of motormen at New York, having responsible charge, qualifying, supervision, and discipline of men operating electric locomotives and trains, as well as supervision of the electric locomotives. From 1913 to 1919, he was assistant electrical engineer in charge of electrical work east of Pittsburgh and Erie, Pa., for the Pennsylvania Railroad, and was promoted to electrical engineer of that division in 1919. In 1920 his duties were extended to cover the entire system of the Pennsylvania Railroad, and he held this position until his recent promotion. In the recent project of electrifying between New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington, Mr. Duer supervised not only the roadway construction, but also the designing and production of the new streamlined electric locomotives. Mr. Duer has served the Institute as a member of its committee on transportation for many years, having been chairman 1926–28. He has presented articles on electric traction before the Institute and other organizations. In 1922, he was a delegate to the International Railway Congress in Italy, and in 1930 was reporter for America to the International Congress on Electric Locomotives for Main Line Traction. He is chairman of the electrical section of the Association of American Railroads, and a member of the St. Nicholas Society of New York."
"Benjamin Stalker Read (M'23) president of the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, Atlanta, Ga., died July 23, 1935. He was born at Carthage, Tenn., January 21, 1876. In 1890, he entered the service of the Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Company, at Carthage, Tenn., as messenger boy and local agent. In 1903, he became manager of this company at Owensboro, Ky., and in 1904, manager at Chattanooga, Tenn. In 1904, he became district manager for the company with headquarters at Louisville, Ky., and in this and all of the positions which he subsequently held, his responsibilities included the supervision not only of engineering, but of construction, maintenance, and operation of the telephone plant. From 1908 until 1912, he was district superintendent for the company for Louisiana and Mississippi, with headquarters at New Orleans. After a few months in 1912 as general manager of the Bell Telephone Company of Missouri, with headquarters at St. Louis, he became that year general manager of the Missouri and Kansas Telephone Company, with headquarters in Kansas City, Mo. From 1914 until 1919, he was vice president in charge of operation of the Southwestern Bell Telephone System (now the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company) operating in several western states with headquarters at St. Louis, Mo. During a portion of 1919, he also served as a member of the supervisory staff, Bell system, under United States Telephone and Telegraph Administration, with headquarters in New York City. From 1919 until 1924, he was president of The Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Company, with headquarters at Denver, Colo., and from 1924 until his death he was president of the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company and the Cumberland Telephone and Telegraph Company with headquarters at Atlanta, Ga. Mr. Read was president of the Telephone Pioneers of America in 1925. During the World War he was a member of the War Camp Survey Committee. He was a director of the Fourth National Bank of Atlanta, and a member of several clubs in that city."
"The board of examiners, at its meetings held May 29 and July 24, 1935, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Record Size Electrical Equipment for Los Angeles. — Two of the world's largest hydrogen-cooled synchronous condensers will be built by the General Electric Co. for the bureau of power and light, City of Los Angeles, to be installed on the receiving end of the 270-mile transmission line from Boulder Dam. These machines will be rated at 60,000 kva, 13,800 volts, 60 cycles. The installation will be an example of one of the standard applications for synchronous condensers where they perform the function of controlling the power factor of the load so that regulation and losses of the line can be held within reasonable values, thereby controlling within limits the voltage of the receiving bus. Hydrogen cooling results in materially reducing windage losses with a corresponding saving in operating expense. The machines will be installed outdoors."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"USEFULNESS of the cathode ray oscillograph has been extended greatly by development of means for using it as a multielement instrument. Two types of equipment for this purpose are described in 2 papers in this issue: One describes an electron tube circuit which enables 2 or more waves having frequencies in simple multiple relationship to each other to be portrayed (pages 1095–1100); the other describes mechanical auxiliaries for use in circuits that permit of the repeated application of the waves to be observed (pages 1045–7)."
"SHARING THE WEALTH has been a topic of wide discussion in recent months, but, strangely enough, practically nothing has been said of the production of wealth."
"Two methods of magnetic and dielectric flux mapping by means of experimental models are described in this paper. Both methods use resistance models, through which current is passed; electrical conductivities of model parts are adjusted to correspond to magnetic or dielectric permeabilities of corresponding parts of the original design, and paths of electric current flow and electric equipotential lines in the model correspond to magnetic or dielectric flux lines and equipotential lines in the original design. Low melting point waxes with carbon or graphite inclusions are particularly suitable for model making purposes due to easy working properties and ready control of the electrical conductivity."
"For that broad group of electrical engineers not familiar with Heaviside's operational method and its value in the analysis of electrical circuits, this article presents briefly some of the fundamental characteristics of the method and explains how it is applied; its application is illustrated by the formulation of operational equations for a few typical circuits. Although intended primarily to impart only the fundamentals of the subject to an engineer who has had ordinary mathematical training, it is hoped that the article also may serve as an introduction and guide to further study."
"With the aid of specially designed auxiliary devices, the cathode ray oscillograph may be operated as a multielement instrument, in circuits that permit of the repeated application of the wave to be observed. The number of waves that may be traced with apparent simultaneity on the oscillograph screen is limited only by the complexity of the control circuit and the crowding of the various curves on the relatively small screen."
"A summary of progress during 1934 and part of 1935 in electric furnace developments in Europe has been prepared by D. F. Campbell, a leading authority on the electrometallurgical industry in Europe, at the request of the Institute's committee on electrochemistry and electrometallurgy. The summary is presented herewith for the information of the Institute's membership."
"An investigation of the effects of polarity and current density on the rate of wear of electrical brushes is reported in this paper, following a brief review of previous experimental work in this field. For carbon and copper impregnated carbon brushes the rate of wear of the positive brush is considerably less than that of the negative brush, while for metallic brushes the situation is reversed. The rate of wear of metallic brushes was found to be much greater than that of carbon brushes, under conditions of these tests. While no complete explanation of brush wear can be derived from the results, the rate of wear seems to be related intimately to the conduction of current across the contact."
"A semigraphical method of solving for harmonics in the input current to a network containing a number of linear and nonlinear resistances in any combination, when a sinusoidal voltage is applied across the network, is presented herewith. The treatment is restricted to nonlinear resistances in which the d-c volt-ampere characteristic is the same regardless of the direction of current. While the method has the errors inherent in any graphical solution, the results indicate good accuracy with little labor."
"The electrolytic capacitor for alternating current is coming into increased use, having recently been introduced for the starting of small single phase motors. Little is known of the film upon which its operation depends, but the general construction and characteristics of the capacitor are reviewed in this paper. The need for the development of testing procedure that will lead to an improved product is pointed out."
"A 300 kva, synchronous type, 60–25 &frac57; cycle static frequency changer, which was designed to be changed to a rectifier after the 25 cycle motor load has been replaced by 60 cycle motors, is described in this paper. The problems involved in the design of the control circuits are discussed in some detail, and the performance is described."
"When 3 phase induction motors are to be operated from single phase lines, split phase starting is frequently used. The optimum values of external resistance and reactance for split phase starting may be determined by the method of symmetrical components. In the present paper, equations for determining these values for each of the 2 commonly used split phase starting schemes are derived. The result of calculations based upon this method are shown to compare favorably with experimental data."
"To meet the demand for sustained accuracy in watt-hour meters and for adaptability to service requirements, the meter described in this paper has been produced. It offers simplicity and interchangeability, light weight, high accuracy over a wide range of load, and convenience of adjustment, and features an improved overload compensator, a new form of full load adjustment, and a new form of combined open-potential-coil indicator and balance adjustment for polyphase meters."
"To reduce radio interference caused by corona from pin insulators, adherent conducting coatings or films usually are applied to the central portions of the heads of the insulators, and metal thimbles or conducting coatings in the pin holes. By extending the coating to cover the entire head and by using a coating of the proper resistivity, the voltage at which corona occurs can be raised considerably without materially lowering the flashover voltage. This paper calls attention to the principle of controlling the potential distribution over surfaces of insulators by utilizing the resistance drop in potential resulting from the flow of charging current in high resistance films."
"Tests on unbleached unsized linen paper of high purity indicate that the physical defects implied by the various pyroelectric theories of insulation failure appear secondary to, and manifested as a result of, the chemical changes involved. These chemical changes result in both increased power factor and decreased dielectric strength of the insulation. The investigation shows that chemical results of overheating of cellulose insulation in service may be disastrous even within a range of temperatures not generally associated with dangerous physical effects."
"A general purpose cathode ray oscillograph is described in this paper which embodies a cathode ray tube of high beam efficiency, a description of which has not hitherto been published. This tube makes it possible to use a high frequency oscillator for supplying both the beam and sweep voltages. An electronic switching circuit is described which greatly extends the usefulness of the cathode ray oscillograph by making it possible to portray simultaneously 2 or more different waves in their proper phase relation, provided both waves have frequencies which are in a simple multiple relationship to each other."
"In performing surge tests on electrical power apparatus to determine ability to withstanding lightning or switching surges, the shape of the impulse voltage wave should be approximately the same as 1 of the 3 test wave shapes commonly in use. Methods of producing a wave shape having the prescribed time constants are described in this paper, and oscillograms are presented which show the correctness of calculated design characteristics of the generator for producing these surges."
"On this and the following 16 pages appear the author's closure of a paper presented at the induction motor session of the 1935 A.I.E.E. winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22–25, and discussion of papers presented at the electrical machinery, instruments and measurements, power generation, and selected subjects and sessions of the 1935 A.I.E.E. summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28. Author's closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the April 1934 issue, pages 536–41, and presented for oral discussion at the induction motor session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935. Other discussion of this paper was published in the September 1934 issue, page 1312, and in the July 1935 issue, page 761."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the June 1935 issue, pages 610–17, and presented for oral discussion at the power generation session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 25, 1935. Other discussion of this paper was published in the September 1935 issue, pages 1001–2."
"Discussion of a paper by E. D. Bassett and F. M. Potter published in the May 1935 issue, pages 540–5, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 26, 1935."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by M. D. Ross published in the May 1935 issue, pages 513–5, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 26, 1935."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by R. E. Hellmund and L. R. Ludwig published in the March 1935 issue, pages 315–21, and presented for oral discussion at the electric machinery session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 26, 1935."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by Charles Kingsley, Jr., published in the March 1935 issue, pages 300–5, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N.Y., June 27, 1935."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by L. A. Kilgore published in the May 1935 issue, pages 545–50, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 27, 1935."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by L. A. March and S. B. Crary published in the April 1935 issue, pages 378–81, and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 27, 1935."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by P. M. Farmer published in the June 1935 issue, pages 617–23, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 27, 1935."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by J. B. Whitehead and S. H. Shevki, published in the June 1935 issue, pages 603–9, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the summer contention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 27, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by H. L. Curtis and F. B. Silsbee published in the April 1935 issue, pages 394–404, and presented for oral discussion at the instruments and measurements session of the summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 25, 1935."
"Pacific Coast Holds 23d Annual Convention at Seattle FOR the third time since Pacific Coast conventions of the Institute were initiated in 1910, the Seattle Section (first in 1916 and again in 1925) played host to a national convention of the Institute; this occasion was the 23d Pacific Coast convention, held at the Olympic Hotel in Seattle, Wash., from Tuesday morning through Friday, August 27–30, 1935. (For those who will check the mathematics involved: no Pacific Coast conventions were held in 1917, 1918, or 1933.)"
"The Great Lakes District of the A.I.E.E. will hold a meeting at Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind., on Thursday and Friday, October 24 and 25, 1935. Three technical sessions will provide an interesting variety of timely subject matter and a Student technical session will be held on Friday morning, at which 15 of the best papers selected from the various Student Branches within the District will be presented. The social and recreational features which will round out the program consist of a dinner, dance, and inspection trips to the factory of the Duncan Electric Manufacturing Company in Lafayette, and the various buildings and laboratories of the university."
"The 8th annual meeting of the committee on electrical insulation, division of engineering and industrial research, National Research Council, will be held at Pittsfield, Mass., October 17–19, with the General Electric Company as host. The technical program is in 3 sessions in which 20 papers in the field of dielectric research and applications to the problems of electrical insulation will be presented."
"Eighteen colleges and universities in the New England and Middle Atlantic States offering courses leading to an engineering degree have requested the Engineers' Council for Professional Development to consider their engineering curricula for accrediting. The group includes many of the large and important engineering schools in these 2 regions."
"Excerpts from the current “news letter” of the American Engineering Council follow: In 4 months Congress will reassemble. In the interval between now and the first of January 1936, it is the task both of industry and of the federal agencies to adjust themselves to the heavy load of legislation. Both Washington and the country are reviewing with soberness the results of emergency legislation passed during the previous sessions of Congress. There are certain to be difficulties in the way of putting some of the legislation into effect."
"The following formulas for calculating the time-current fusing characteristics of copper and aluminum cables for short time intervals are based upon several general assumptions but have been found to be sufficiently accurate for most purposes. H. J. Reeves (A'30) Paul & Reeves, West 1030 First Ave., Spokane, Wash."
"E. B. Meyer (A'05, F'27, and president) chief engineer, Public Service Electric and Gas Company, Newark, N. J., has been appointed chairman of the Institute's executive committee for the year 1935–36. Mr. Meyer, who was born at Newark in 1882, is a graduate of Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y., completing the electrical engineering course in 1903. In that year he entered the employ of the Public Service Corporation of New Jersey as engineering assistant, and was promoted through successive positions to become assistant chief engineer in 1919. Three years later he was appointed chief engineer of the Public Service Production Company at its formation, and in 1929 was made a vice president. With the merger the following year of this company and United Engineers and Constructors, Inc., Mr. Meyer was appointed a vice president of the latter in the capacity of executive and engineering head of the Newark office. Recently he was appointed chief engineer of the Public Service Electric and Gas Company. Mr. Meyer has served on many Institute committees in the past, and was a director 1928–31, and a vice president 1932–34. He is now a member of the Edison medal committee, and is Institute representative on the American Engineering Council and the Charles A. Coffin fellowship and research fund committee. Other societies of which he is a member include The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the New York Electrical Society, Inc., and the American Transit Association. Mr. Meyer is the author of a number of technical articles, and the book “Underground Transmission and Distribution.”"
"William Charles Gotshall (A'01, M'02, and Life Member) consulting and constructing engineer, New York, N. Y., and former president and chief engineer of the New York and Port Chester Railroad, died August 20, 1935. Mr. Gotshall was born at St. Louis, Mo., May 9, 1870. Following studies at Washington University he was employed by the St. Louis and Eastern Railroad Company and the Missouri Power and Light Company, and subsequently rebuilt and operated a number of electric railways. As chief engineer of the Union Railway Company, St. Louis, he undertook the rehabilitation of the system, which involved the first introduction of the 3 wire system on railways. In 1897 he was in charge of the rebuilding of the Second Avenue Railway in New York, which was converted from horsepower to a conduit system. Following this he became president and chief engineer of the New York and Port Chester Railroad, which he designed and constructed. This was the first high speed electric railway in the United States built entirely on its own right of way without grade crossings, which involved the introduction of many improvements in high speed electric traction. This work was completed in 1912, and subsequently Mr. Gotshall was engaged in other railroad work in the United States, Europe, and Africa. He also took part in several archaeological expeditions and was the author of a number of articles on electric railways, as well as a book on their economics. He was a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and other organizations."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary before Oct. 31, 1935, or Nov. 30, 1935, if the applicant resides outside of the United States or Canada."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"New Name for Fansteel. — The Fansteel Products Co., North Chicago, Ill., has changed its name to the Fansteel Metallurgical Corporation. The new corporate name more clearly defines the nature of the business, that of refining rare metals such as tantalum, tungsten, molybdenum, electrical contacts, etc., and fabricating them to a wide variety of industrial uses."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"One of the objects of the A.I.E.E. as stipulated in its Constitution is “the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members.” To maintain a high individual professional standing, an engineer must keep himself informed of technical advances in his field; in other words, if he expects to advance in his profession his education cannot stop after graduation from an educational institution, but must continue throughout his career. In this, his opening address at the Institute's 1935 winter convention, President Johnson brings clearly and forcefully to the attention of Institute members the many educational activities of the Institute that will help them maintain high professional standing. He urges that members of the Institute “realize the dependence of their individual professional standing upon their continuing education, and make full use of the opportunities offered by the Institute.” This address was prepared originally for presentation at a meeting of the Pittsburgh Section of the Institute, and was read before that body by E. C. Stone on January 8, 1935; by request, President Johnson revised and extended it for presentation at the winter convention."
"High speed motion pictures have been found to be extremely useful in studying the motions of various types of mechanisms, especially transient high speed motions, Modern electronic devices have contributed new methods of producing accurately controlled light flashes of extremely high intensity so that now pictures may be taken by reflected light at rates up to several thousands per second."
"A step type voltage regulator for electric power feeders has been designed, built, and tested in service, which is provided with steps so small as to give an operating curve as smooth as can be obtained with the induction regulator. In addition, the step type regulator has the advantage of lower cost, higher efficiency, lower exciting current, quieter operation, higher impulse strength, and suitability for high voltage applications."
"Double unbalances in 3-phase electric power networks may be analyzed experimentally on the network “calculating board” by applying the method of symmetrical components; 2 such methods of analysis are presented in this paper. Although intended primarily for use with the a-c calculating board, some of the material is applicable to the d-c board and to the purely mathematical solution of networks."
"In this paper an effective means of controlling and regulating voltage with an external-grid rectifier tube is discussed. Four applications of the basic principles are shown, including a low voltage, wide range control, and a primary distribution voltage automatic regulator. Main features are: instantaneous response which enables this regulator to be used in such applications as welding with a pulse of only a few cycles, absence of heavy moving parts as well as absence of contacts for load currents, and low cost."
"A series of tests on a circuit breaker of the oil blast type was conducted at the Richmond station of the Philadelphia Electric Company. Particular attention was given to the rate of recovery of voltage following the actual interruption of the circuit. Unusual details in the operation of the cathode ray oscillograph also were worked out. These, and other features of the tests, are described in detail in this paper."
"Analyses of cathode ray oscillograms of circuit interruptions reveal characteristics of the circuits that are significant in the study of circuit breaker performance. While a complete analysis of such an oscillogram involves much detailed work, the study of several typical oscillograms reveals the significance of certain types of voltage variations and thus makes possible the analysis of similar oscillograms without detailed measurements. Several oscillograms made on typical laboratory circuits are presented and analyzed in this paper."
"The transient tability of the general 2-machine system is considered in this paper. Introduction of an equivalent system with concentrated inertia at one end is shown to facilitate the direct application of the equal area method of analysis to the general 2-machine system. Heretofore the equal area method has been confined to certain special 2-machine systems."
"The stability characteristics of a typical high voltage transmission circuit have been considered together with the requirements for short-circuit protection, as a basis for the selection and application of relay protective devices. In this paper, the performance of the 132 kv New York Edison-Niagara Hudson interconnection under fault and swing conditions is analyzed, the characteristics of various protective devices are discussed, and the performance of the selected equipment under both calculated and actual operating conditions is given. A protective scheme involving carrier current control is shown to be highly satisfactory."
"Lightning arresters are expected to protect equipment against damage and outage from lightning, and to have an economical life. In order to accomplish these ends effectively, arresters should be able to discharge all surge currents whose probability of occurrence is such that the average life of the arresters will be in an economic balance with their cost. In this paper existing data have been assembled and analyzed in an effort to determine the magnitude of these impulses and the probable frequency of their occurrence."
"ON this and the following 31 pages appear the discussion of a paper presented at the transmission and distribution session of the 1934 A.I.E.E. North Eastern District meeting, Worcester, Mass., May 16–18, and the discussions of papers presented at the 1934 A.I.E.E. Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 3–7. All discussions on these papers received in complete and acceptable form at Institute headquarters, and subsequently reviewed and recommended for publication by A.I.E.E. technical committees, are included. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by E. W. Kimbark presented for oral discussion at the transmission and distribution session of the North Eastern District meeting, Worcester, Mass., May 16, 1934, and published in this issue, p. 159–65."
"ONE of the items which will be of particular interest to those attending the A.I.E.E. South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 24–26, 1935, is the Oklahoma City oil field adjacent to the city. This general view of a portion of the oil field was taken in 1930 from a point just adjacent to the Oklahoma City business section, and shows a large number of wells in the process of drilling. The Oklahoma City field has 1,032 wells producing, with an average of one well for every 6 acres. This field has produced to date 240,000,000 barrels of oil; geologists report that an additional 125,000,000 barrels of oil will be produced within the next 5 years. Although the oil has flown almost entirely from its own natural gas pressure until within the last year, it is now necessary to use pumping on practically all wells. At the present time, the connected capacity in the field is 25,000 horsepower. This field has been the proving ground for developing the Reda pump."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by R. W. Sorensen published in the August 1934 issue, pages 1221–4, and presented for oral discussion at the transmission session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 6, 1934."
"Discussion of a paper by E. M. Wright and J. Mini, Jr., published in the July 1934 issue, pages 1123–7, and presented for oral discussion at the transmission session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 6, 1934."
"Discussion of a paper by W. A. Hillebrand and C. J. Miller, Jr., published in the August 1934 issue, pages 1213–20, and presented for oral discussion at the transmission session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 6, 1934."
"Discussion of papers presented for oral discussion at the communication session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 3, 1934."
"Discussion of a paper by W. R. Bullard and D. H. Keyes published in the December 1933 issue, pages 890–8, and presented for oral discussion at the management and protective devices session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 4, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by A. C. Schwager published in the July 1934 issue, pages 1108–15, and presented for oral discussion at the management and protective devices session of the Pacific Coast Convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 4, 1934."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by E. H. Bancker and E. M. Hunter published in the July 1934 issue, pages 1073–80, and presented for oral discussion at the management and protective devices session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 4, 1934."
"Discussions of papers presented for oral discussion at the session on lightning at the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 5, 1934."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by Philip Sporn and I. W. Gross published in the August 1934 issue, pages 1188 94, and presented for oral discussion at the lightning session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 5, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by L. V. Bewley published in the August 1934 issue, page 1163–72, and presented for oral discussion at the lightning session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 5, 1934."
"Discussion of a paper by W. W. Lewis and C. M. Foust published in the August 1934 issue, page 1180–6, and presented for oral discussion at the lightning session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 5, 1934."
"Authors' closure of a paper published in the July 1934 issue, page 1116–23, and presented for oral discussion at the lightning session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 5, 1934."
"Author's closure of a paper published in the August 1934 issue, page 1188–94, and presented for oral discussion at the lightning session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 5, 1934."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by Arthur L. Albert and Tom B. Wagner published in the August 1934 issue, page 1160–2, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 7, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by J. Gibson Pleasants published in the February 1934 issue, page 300–07, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 7, 1934."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by F. W. Maxstadt published in the July 1934 issue, page 1062–8, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the Pacific Coast convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 7, 1934."
"IN SPITE OF New York's 17-inch snowfall, which occurred during the Institute's recent winter convention and which crippled traffic facilities in and about the city, attendance at sessions of the convention was good; a total of 1,114 members and guests registered. The percentage of attendants from outside New York City showed a further increase over last year; those registered from out-of-town (outside of District 3) this year comprised 38 per cent of the total registration, compared with 34 per cent for 1934, and 28 per cent for 1933."
"For “distinguished service as inventor and engineer through the application and control of electric power in transportation system,” the John Fritz Medal and engraved certificate of award for 1935 were presented to Robert C. Sprague, son of Dr. Frank J. Sprague to whom the medal was awarded on October 19, 1934. Doctor Sprague died on October 25, 1934, 3 days after he had received notification of the award. Doctor Sprague was president of the A.I.E.E. 1892–93, and was elected an honorary member in 1932. The presentation took place during the evening of Wednesday, January 23, immediately following the presentation of the 1934 Edison Medal."
"At the 1935 Winter Convention: the Edison and John Fritz Medal Presentation Ceremony and the Annual Dinner-Dance."
"The annual meeting of the Institute's South West District (number 7) will be held at Oklahoma City, Okla., on April 24–26, 1935, with headquarters at the Skirvin Hotel. Four technical sessions are planned for this meeting in addition to the Student session. Papers will be presented by several engineers of national reputation; these papers will deal with various phases of electrical distribution, telephone communication, insulation coordination, and engineering education."
"ENGINEERS' Council for Professional Development, which was founded in 1932 as an agency of the united engineering profession to enhance the status of the engineer, has completed the second year of its work. In entering upon its third year various phases of its program are being carried on with renewed activity."
"THE annual meeting of American Engineering Council was held at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D. C., January 10–12, 1935, the main points stressed being the coöperation of engineers in the broad work program being planned by the federal government, and the better coördination of the existing system of engineering societies throughout the country. Membership in American Engineering Council, which may be termed the “Washington Embassy” of engineers, specifically includes 7 national, 4 state, and 11 local engineering societies. Delegates from these and other societies were present at the annual meeting."
"In Doctor Weber's paper on “Mapping of Fields” (see Electrical Engineering for December 1934, page 1563–70) an excellent outline of the mathematical treatment of field problems is given, but graphical methods are only mentioned. In practical engineering work most field problems can be solved with sufficient accuracy by the graphical method sometimes referred to as the “method of curvilinear squares” or “curvilinear rectangles.”"
"E. F. W. Alex and erson (A'04, F'20) consulting engineer, General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., has been elected to membership in the Royal Academy of Science, Sweden. Doctor Alexanderson was born at Upsala, Sweden, and graduated from the Royal Institute of Technology at Stockholm in 1900. He later studied in Berlin, and in 1926 received the honorary degree of doctor of science from Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. In 1902 he entered the General Electric Company, but also was chief engineer of the Radio Corporation of America 1920–4. Doctor Alexanderson is well known for his contributions to radio, which include the Alexanderson high frequency alternator, multiple tuned antenna, vacuum tube radio telephone transmitter, and tuned radio frequency receiver. He has been concerned also with television, electric ship propulsion, and railroad electrification, and has presented a number of technical papers. Among the honors which he has received are decoration with the Order of the North Star, Sweden, and the Order of Polonia Restituta, Poland, the gold medal of the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the John Ericsson medal. Doctor Alexanderson is a fellow and past-president of the Institute of Radio Engineers, and a member of the American Physical Society, and Sigma Xi."
"George Anson Hamilton (A'84, M'84, F'13, HM'33, and member for life) Elizabeth, N. J., died January 10, 1935. He was one of the 6 living charter members of the Institute, and the last surviving member of the original committee of 5 on organization. Mr. Hamilton was born at Cleveland, Ohio, December 30, 1843. He became interested in electricity, and built a small telegraph line for himself at Limaville, Ohio. In 1861 he became a messenger at Salem, Ohio, but 2 months later was made manager of the Ravenna office of the Atlantic and Great Western Railroad. Illness forced him to relinquish this position in 1863, but upon his recovery he went to Pittsburgh, Pa., as operator and manager of the Inland Company. Two years later he became manager of the office at Franklin, Pa., of the United States Telegraph Company, returning to Pittsburgh in 1866 as chief operator and circuit manager and remaining there until 1873 when the company was absorbed by the Western Union Telegraph Company. During 1873–75 he was assistant to Prof. Moses G. Farmer of Boston, Mass., who was engaged in the manufacture of general electrical apparatus and machinery and who later became an Honorary Member of the Institute. This work afforded him an opportunity to secure valuable practical knowledge of mechanics and to participate in many electrical experiments in telegraphy and other developments. In 1875 Mr. Hamilton was called to New York, N. Y., as assistant electrician to the Western Union Company. During the next 2 years, with Gerritt Smith, he participated in the establishment of the first quadruplex telegraph circuits to be put into operation, and with Mr. Smith was also the first to introduce the system in England. Upon his return to this country he carried out experiments preliminary to establishing the wheatstone high-speed automatic system in this country. In 1889 Mr. Hamilton accepted a position with the Western Electric Company, New York, N. Y., supervising the department for the production of fine electrical instruments. He retired in 1909. In addition to having been a charter member of the Institute and active in its organization plans, he served as the Institute's first vice president for the term 1884–86, and was a member of the first committees on editing and permanent quarters. From 1895 to 1930 he served the Institute as national treasurer, and in 1933 was elected an Honorary Member. He was a member of the Edison medal committee 1908–30, and of the executive committee 1914–30. Mr. Hamilton was a member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers (Great Britain), Societe Francaise des Electriciens, Societe Frangaise de Physique, and Societe Beige d'Astronomic"
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on January 16, 1935, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"HEATING by electricity is a subject of ever-increasing interest. Two types of electric heating are described in this issue. One involves induction heating of iron parts at low temperature. It is useful in such operations as baking paint or rapidly drying wet metal parts (pages 1210–2). The other is an electric furnace in which a carbon electrode raised to a very high temperature is used in metallurgical operations (pages 1195–9)."
"COLLEGE STUDENTS and young engineers have been confronted during the past few years with the perplexing problem “What opportunities are there in the engineering profession?”"
"During the course of the extensive research in arc welding being conducted at Lehigh University under joint sponsorship of the A.I.E.E. and several other organizations, apparatus for experimental welding at atmospheric pressure in controlled pure gas atmospheres has been designed and constructed. Tests in argon gas reveal 3 phenomena not previously associated with the welding arc: (1) the impossibility of maintaining a stable arc in highly purified argon under ordinary conditions; (2) the absence of all crater formation under pure iron in pure argon; and (3) the absence of all observable “pinch effect” accompanying the detachment of the globules from the electrode wire."
"A simple impedance bridge may be used to measure the variation of inductance of a disconnecting switch of practical dimensions as the switch blade is displaced by slight amounts from the closed position. The electromagnetic force tending to open the switch blade, calculated from the observed variation of inductance, checks the theoretical value obtained from Dwight's formula. The bridge may be used to determine the electromagnetic forces acting on current carrying members the configuration of which is such as to make accurate theoretical calculation impossible."
"The relation which the resistivity of the earth's crust bears to the geological structure has been studied with the aid of many experimentally obtained data. Although the resistivity is found to vary between wide limits, and not always to be the same even for the same types of rock formation in different locations, it has been found that the variation for any particular material is within more narrow limits, and that the older materials generally have the higher resistivities. The results of the studies are of value in several types of electrical calculations."
"By means of specially devised translators, described in this paper, 3-element cable-code signals may be translated into 2-element signals suitable for transmission over ordinary landline telegraph plants; by means of retranslating circuits, also described, the signals may be restored to their original 3-element form. Signals in the 2-element form may be monitored without the aid of retranslators. Synchronism is not required between the translators and retranslators."
"Load ratings for underground electric power transmission cables for 2 typical metropolitan load cycles are computed in this paper by the method of harmonic analysis of load cycles. Test data are given which agree reasonably well with theoretical calculations. A logical basis for emergency rating of cables also is demonstrated. A comparison of costs of transmission for various duct conditions indicates that large conduit systems are not economical because of the lower ratings necessitated by the greater heat dissipated."
"Before an electric arc furnace, which is a rapidly fluctuating load during part of its operating cycle, is connected to an electric power distribution system, the electrical characteristics of the furnace must be known in order that the service may be provided in such a way that the resulting voltage fluctuations on the system will not exceed allowable limits. These and related factors are discussed in this paper which outlines a general procedure that may be followed in planning electric service for such loads."
"Theories and concepts developed in connection with circuit rupturing by switches and circuit breakers are used to analyze the factors involved in the flashing of railway motors. The investigation is limited to cases where flashing is caused by brush jumping, which occurs principally with railway motors. Voltage conditions as applying at the commutator circumference and as affecting the sustenance of an arc are studied for varying designs of main poles with different ratios of armature ampere turns to field ampere turns. The effect of load current and speed is subsequently taken into account. Actual test results are compared with the theories outlined. Finally, the modifying effect of certain secondary phenomena is discussed."
"A photoelectric cell of the dry disk type, consisting of a light-sensitive disk and not requiring any vacuum or liquid was developed a few years ago, and has proved to be a very useful device. Characteristics of one type of dry disk photoelectric cell are described in this paper, and a number of typical applications of the cell are given."
"Commercial applications of “angle switching” of synchronous motors are given especial attention in this paper. “Angle switching” refers to a method of starting synchronous motors whereby the time of application of the excitation voltage with respect to the relative angular position of the Field poles and the impressed voltage is controlled. The advantages of this method of starting are pointed out, the equipment is described briefly, and a number of practical applications in which increased starting torque, reduced starting current, or other features were obtained are described."
"A type of electric furnace for application to metallurgy and to operations at very high temperatures has been developed in which the heat producing element is a carbon electrode raised to a very high temperature and conveying heat to the charge by radiation. Furnaces of this type, which have incorporated in them a number of novel features, have been devised and perfected in France in the electrothermic laboratory of the company with which the author is connected."
"Based upon a theory of traveling waves previously expounded by the author, this paper presents a method of resolving oscillograms of traveling waves on electric power lines into their multivelocity components. The effects of a ground wire on multivelocity waves also are pointed out."
"An attempt to clarify the definitions of power, power factor, and related quantities has led to an intensive study which has included a large number of actual test measurements of the quantities involved. Measurements of positive and negative power, and the use of a “power ratio” based upon these 2 quantities are proposed, particularly for circuits in which the voltages and currents are nonsinusoidal or unbalanced. Positive and negative energy and power can be measured approximately with apparatus commercially available."
"Inductively heating iron parts for drying coatings discloses interesting features which may be applied to other low temperature processes. The electrical design of the oven and circuits for induction heating at low temperatures are considered in this paper. Low maintenance and operating costs, cleanliness, and reduced processing time are among the features available."
"A system of stationary conversion of electric energy from a-c to d-c form is described in this paper in which commutation is effected by harmonically vibrating contacts actuated electromagnetically. Combined with the vibratory commutative system is a special transformer with closely coupled primary and secondary windings which are subdivided into numerous phases corresponding to the coils of a Gramme ring; the travel of the electromagnetic field that actuates the vibrating contacts is in synchronism with the travel of flux polarity in the respective transformer members. A model converter embodying these principles is described and illustrated."
"A generalized infinite integral theorem and its transform and applications are presented in this paper in such form that it becomes unnecessary to use Duhamel's theorem. The treatment embodies extensions to Heavisides methods of circuit analysis, thereby simplifying materially the mathematics of operational methods and giving a clearer insight into the connection between the physics and mathematics of transients. Extensions to Heavisides expansion theorem also are given."
"Calculation of inverter performance and analysis of the circuit apparently have not been treated to any great extent in technical literature. This paper presents a method of calculating in terms of 2 parameters the characteristics of an inverter supplying a pure resistance load, and discusses the various modes of operation, including that in which the direct current supplied to the inverter flows in pulses."
"Quite often the design of a split phase induction motor is such that the so-called quadrature winding is displaced at some angle other than 90 degrees from the main winding, in which event the motor behaves differently when run in opposite directions. It is the purpose of this paper to indicate a method by which the designer can predict the performance of such a motor. While the emphasis is placed upon the capacitor motor, the treatment is applicable also to motors of other types."
"The electrical equipment and performance of an articulated light-weight streamlined Diesel-electric train are described in this paper. Particular attention is given to the control, which provides full utilization of the available engine power for driving the train over a wide range of train speeds. Generators, motors, and auxiliary equipment are considered briefly, and the estimated train performance is given."
"Continued development of the high vacuum tube has played an extremely important part in the development of radio communication. Since the power output of a tube is proportional to the amount of heat that may be dissipated safely from its anode, the anode is one of the most vital parts of high vacuum tubes especially those used for transmitting purposes. Several materials have been found suitable for the anodes of transmitting tubes, depending upon the requirements of specific applications and the type of cooling adopted; these materials and their characteristics are discussed in this paper."
"Even though progress in the theory of ferromagnetism still lags far behind experimental progress, advances in theory have been particularly rapid during the past 5 or 10 years. The salient points brought out in these most recent advances are summarized here."
"Recent developments in relay protective schemes, using metallic pilot channels for isolating a transmission line during fault conditions, reduce considerably the magnitude of the currents which must be handled. Schemes recently developed have many other advantages over the older pilot wire schemes, being more economical to install and operate, and having excellent reliability. In addition to the advantages inherent in all pilot schemes, such as high speed tripping and absolute selectivity, the latest schemes provide indication of the condition of the pilot wire circuit at all times."
"FOR THE nomination of national officers to be voted upon in the spring of 1936, the A.I.E.E. national nominating committee will meet during the winter convention, January 28–31, 1936. To guide this committee in performing its constituted task, suggestions from the membership are, of course, highly desirable. To be available for the consideration of the committee, all such suggestions must be received by the secretary of the committee at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., not later than December 15, 1935."
"Approximately 550 persons attended a highly successful engineers' dinner meeting held September 28, 1935, at the Hotel Mallow-Sterling, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., under joint sponsorship of the Lehigh Valley Section of the A.I.E.E., the local sections of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers and American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the Wilkes-Barre Chamber of Commerce, and the Engineers' Club of the Lehigh Valley. The meeting marked the culmination of an all-day program which earlier in the day included inspection trips to anthracite coal mines and other points of interest in and near Wilkes-Barre."
"Committees are making arrangements for the program of the A.I.E.E. 1936 winter convention, which will be held in the Engineering Societies' Building, 33 West 39th St., New York, N. Y., January 28–31, 1936. Similarly to the plan of the past 2 years the convention will convene on a Tuesday with technical sessions both mornings and afternoons of the first 3 days while Friday, the fourth day, will be devoted entirely to inspection trips. The evenings will be given over to social functions — the smoker, the Edison medal presentation, and the dinner-dance. Details as soon as they become available will be announced in Electrical Engineering."
"Charles F. Scott (A'92, F'25, HM'29, past-president and member for life) professor of electrical engineering emeritus, Yale University, New Haven, Conn., and chairman of the board appointed by Governor Cross to administer the recently enacted engineers' registration law in the State of Connecticut, was elected chairman of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development at the third annual meeting of that body held in New York, N. Y., on October 8, 1935. Professor Scott succeeds C. F. Hirshfeld (A'05) chief of research of the Detroit (Mich.) Edison Company, who has served as chairman of the E.C.P.D. since its formation."
"Something of the tremendous magnitude of the Government's Grand Coulee power and irrigation project and Bonneville power and navigation project may be gleaned by study of the several illustrations on the facing page. These snapshots were taken early in September 1935 upon the occasion of the visit of President E. B. Meyer and party to these projects, and indicate the status of progress as of that time."
"The 21st annual meeting of The Engineering foundation was held in the Engineering Societies Building, New York, N. Y., on Thursday, October 10,. 1935. The meeting opened as the final meeting of the 1935 board and was followed immediately by the first meeting of the 1935–36 board. Since, during the past year, the annual meeting of the board of The Engineering foundation was advanced from January to October, the 1935 board held office only from January to September. The 1935–36 board holds office until the annual meeting in October 1936."
"Excerpts from the current “news letter” of the American engineering council follow: The approval of projects under the federal works relief program has been speeded up in recent weeks to make work available against the winter peak in operations. The jurisdiction of federal agencies over portions of the program has been clarified and funds have been shifted, especially to the Works Progress Administration, whose position is strengthened as a means of providing quick jobs."
"Further developments have recently taken place regarding the operation of television in England and the following comments are given as a supplement to the recent article by A. W. Cruse under the above title (Electrical Engineering, Sept. 1935, pages 966–9). G. V. Harrap (A'34) 58 Wellington Road, Dunston, Gateshead, England"
"J. L. Wilson (A'25) assistant chief surveyor, American Bureau of Shipping, New York, N. Y., is chairman of the Institute's committee on applications to marine work, for the year 1935–36. Mr. Wilson was born May 29, 1894, at Elizabeth, N. J. After graduating from Webb Institute of Naval Architecture in 1914, he undertook postgraduate work in mechanical engineering at the Polytechnic Institute, New York. Previous to graduation he did work in connection with shipbuilding. After graduation, he became assistant editor of Marine Engineering. In 1915 he became a designer of submarines for the Lake Torpedo Boat Company, later undertaking aviation research in the U.S. Navy Department, Washington, D. C. He entered the scientific section of the New York Navy Yard in 1916, and during 1916–17 was chief engineer of the Talbot Boiler and Engine Corporation. He entered the employ of the American Bureau of Shipping in 1917, being at that time surveyor at Philadelphia, Pa. In 1920 he was transferred to the technical staff at New York, N. Y., and in 1926 was appointed to his present position as assistant chief surveyor. Mr. Wilson has for a number of years supervised all the electrical engineering work of the bureau, including the construction, installation, and maintenance of electrical apparatus on vessels of the Merchant Marine under the cognizance of the American Bureau of Shipping. The work also has involved modification of electrical standards for marine work. He has been active on a number of sectional committees relating to electrical installations on shipboard, and has been a member of the Institute's committee on applications to marine work since 1925."
"The board of examiners, at its meetings held September 25 and October 26, 1935, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Increased Sales for General Electric. — Orders received by the General Electric Co., for the third quarter of 1935 amounted to $54,400,819, compared with $40,458,901 for the third quarter of 1934, an increase of 34%. Orders received for the nine months amounted to $158,943,765, compared with $132,613,543 for the first nine months of last year, an increase of 20%."
"Lists booklets, catalogs, and or pamphlets that may be obtained by addressing a request to the manufacturer or publisher."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"DEPORTS of the different activities at the Institute's recent successful summer convention at Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, have been prepared and made available to the membership. The general features of the convention, including the annual business meeting, presentation of the Lamme Medal, entertainment, and sports included many items of interest (pages 891–5). The annual conference of officers, delegates, and members brought forth many illuminating discussions on affairs of importance to the Institute (pages 898–901). An innovation this year was the holding of informal round table discussions, called “technical conferences,” in addition to the regular technical sessions; these conferences made possible a wide dissemination of information (pages 901“7)."
"Fellow Members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers — When men find themselves the recipients of honors which their associates have bestowed upon them, I am sure that the emotion is always that which I feel as I endeavor to express my appreciation for having been chosen to serve the Institute as its president for the ensuing year. That feeling is one of wishing that you might fully comprehend what is in the heart of one newly elected to the highest office of our Institute and not be misled by the utter inadequacy of words to convey thought."
"Written especially for Electrical, Engineering; based upon an address delivered before the communication group of the A.I.E.E. New York Section, New York, N. Y., April 23, 1935. During the 3 years following the discovery of heavy hydrogen in the latter part of 1931, 4 additional elementary particles of matter lighter than the alpha particle (nucleus of the ordinary helium atom) have been discovered where only 2 were known previously. This is considered extraordinary even for the present rapid pace of physics which sometimes requires physicists to revise their fundamental concepts of matter almost overnight. These 5 newly discovered particles formed the subject matter of a highly interesting and instructive address delivered recently by Doctor Darrow at a meeting of the Institute's New York Section; the essential substance of this illuminating address is presented herewith."
"By applying the results of insulation research to factory equipment and procedures, manufacturers of oil-impregnated paper-insulated cables for electric power transmission and distribution have been able to effect marked improvements in their products. By following and taking advantage of these improvements as they develop, users of cable have been able not only to obtain more satisfactory operating results, but also to effect substantial savings. Some of the more recent achievements in insulation research and their practical applications are outlined briefly in this paper."
"The radiotelephone communication system that links the 5 major islands of Hawaii and some of the engineering problems involved in developing it form the subject matter of this paper. This system, which has been in successful operation for more than 3 years, operates on frequencies between 30 and 60 megacycles per second, although in April 1935, an experimental circuit operating on 220/230 megacycles was placed in service. The successful operation of this system has shown that ultra-high frequencies are well suited to short quasi-optical ranges and that reliable semi-nonattended radiotelephone services are practicable."
"Telephone communication to and from harbor craft in the Puget Sound area in the State of Washington is accomplished by means of low powered radiotelephone channels from each boat to a single land station from which connections can be made to any telephone; the equipment used for this purpose is described here. A 400 watt transmitter is used in the land station and a 50 watt transmitter on each boat. Frequencies used are 2,522 kilocycles for the shore-to-ship direction, and 2,126 kilocycles for the ship-to-shore direction."
"Nonuniform load growth, which sometimes results in excessive voltage drops in various parts of an electric power distribution system, caused engineers to consider extending the installation of voltage regulating devices to portions of the system beyond the station. As a result, several supplementary devices have been developed for use in distribution circuits between station and load. These devices and their applications are discussed in this paper."
"A review of available data on the magnitude and effects of lightning stroke currents, supplemented by laboratory experiments to check these effects, is presented herewith. Maximum currents of 150,000 to 200,000 amperes having durations of from 40 to 100 microseconds are indicated."
"Especially prepared for Electrical Engineering under the auspices of the A.I.E.E. committee on research; submitted for publication April 3, 1935, subsequently brought up to date as of July 1, 1935. A review of the literature describing research investigations in the field of radio communication, published in the United States and other countries during the past year and more, indicates the progress being made in this field. For each of the 5 principal classifications into which radio communication research is found to be divided, a summary of recent progress is included as part of this article, and a bibliography totaling 104 items gives reference to the principal articles in these 5 divisions."
"Tests have been made to determine the increase in corona losses on a high voltage transmission line, due to the grounding of one of the conductors. The corona losses under this condition of operation, which may occur on a transmission system not having the neutral solidly grounded, are shown to be considerably increased over the more usual operation with all 3 conductors at the same voltage. This corona loss may increase the in-phase component of current, with a consequent effect on the operation of Petersen coils. The conductors of the line used in these tests were hollow copper conductors composed of interlocking segments."
"By means of coupling capacitors connected to high voltage power transmission lines, high frequency carrier currents in different frequency channels may be transmitted over the power lines for supplementary services such as relaying, control, and communication. A new design of coupling capacitor has been made which, by combining 1, 2, 3, or 4 units in series, may be used on 69, 138, 230, or 287 kv circuits. Capacitors of the latter rating are being used on the Boulder Dam line of the city of Los Angeles."
"Vacuum tube oscillators for radio frequency signals above 25 megacycles may be controlled with a high degree of precision by resonant lines, and at lower frequencies may be used to obtain a larger power output than is obtainable from crystal oscillators. The general principles of the design of concentric conductor lines and means for compensating temperature changes are discussed in this paper. Line controlled oscillators may be used with frequency multipliers, or to control oscillators at lower frequencies."
"Consideration of the factors involved in radio interference field strength measurements indicates that the effective values measured by conventional methods are inadequate for describing the interfering effect of the disturbing radiation. The instrument described in this paper provides a means for measuring with acceptable accuracy both crest and effective values of interference field strength, the ratio of which agrees with observed discrepancies between effective and apparent values."
"Recent developments in internal combustion engines have provided a source of mobile motive power for railroads which has shown economies over steam operation in some classes of service. The continuing development of Diesel engines gives promise of their further substitution for steam power, but in the application of this unit, performance characteristics must be considered carefully. The recently developed “streamlined” Diesel electric trains are rather limited in application, but the Diesel engine has an immediate field of application in switching and transfer locomotives. Electrical transmission of power from the Diesel engine to the driving wheels of a train has advantages which make it preferable to any other type of transmission as yet developed."
"Measurement of time lag of spark-over of small sphere gaps at 3,820 volts were made with an instrument developed specifically for the purpose. Spark lags were found to fall into 3 distinct domains: 1 of relatively long initiatory lags of random distribution, and 2 of definite formative lags of different orders of magnitude corresponding to 2 different spark-over mechanisms. The controlling conditions which determine into which domain the spark lag will fall are given. The manner in which this lag may obscure the sparking voltage of the gap is pointed out and a remedial specification suggested. The results are applicable to larger sphere gaps and higher voltages."
"Following is the full text of an address presented at the A.I.E.E. summer convention, Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, 1935, and prepared at the request of the A.I.E.E. committee on education, in order that the membership might be more fully informed concerning engineers' registration and the related problems of the profession, and may determine to what extent the arguments for registration apply to electrical engineers, whether engaged in practice for themselves or employed by others, and whether engaged on private or public work."
"On this and the following 8 pages appear 2 additional authors' closures of papers presented at the 1935 A.I.E.E. winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22–25, and the first discussions submitted of papers presented at the general technical and the insulation and protection sessions of the South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 24–26, 1935. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Authors' closing discussion of a paper published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1581–9, and presented for oral discussion at the cables session of the winter convention New York, N. Y., January 24, 1935. Other discussion of this paper was published in the March 1935 issue, pages 324–6, and in the April 1935 issue, pages 436–7. E. H. Salter, G. B. Shanklin, and R. J. Wiseman: In reference to the comments by R. W. Atkinson in regard to the difference found when the phase rotation of current was reversed, analysis of these data did not give a logical reason why a difference should be found. We could not explain it on the basis of accuracy of test methods because the difference is in the same order of magnitude as was found for other factors which we knew did influence a-c losses. It was decided to include the data in the paper with the hope that someone could offer a reason for that which we found."
"Authors' closing discussion of a paper published in the January 1935 issue, pages 102–8, and presented for oral discussion at the general overhead line problems session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 23, 1935. Other discussion of this paper was published in the March 1935 issue, pages 327–9, and in the April 1935 issue, pages 447–9. C. H. Willis, B. D. Bedford, and F. R. Elder: In answer to the questions regarding the operation of the monocyclic network, the following simple vector analysis of its operations is submitted."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by C. H. Frier published in the April 1935 issue, pages 404–7, and presented for oral discussion at the general technical session of the South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 24, 1935."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by E. E. George and O. J. Huie published in the March 1935 issue, pages 262–5, and presented for oral discussion at the general technical session of the South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 24, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by J. B. Blomberg and Norvel Douglas published in the April 1935 issue, pages 382–83, and presented for oral discussion at the general technical session of the South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 25, 1935."
"Discussion of a paper by H. V. Putman and J. E. Clem published in the December 1934 issue, pages 1594–7, and presented for oral discussion at the insulation and protection session of the South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 24, 1935. This paper was also presented at the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22, 1935, and other discussion was published in the July 1935 issue, pages 770–1. J. K. Hodnette (Westinghouse Elec. and Mfg. Co., Sharon, Pa.): There has been considerable discussion recently amongst engineers relative to a revision in the proposed standards for transformers to more closely co-ordinate the transformer insulation levels with protective devices. This applies particularly in the lower voltage or distribution classes of transformers where a reduction in the insulation levels would be made. It is believed that this has been an outcome of the transformer subcommittee's proposal to increase the 60 cycle dielectric tests on the lower voltage transformers and had as its objective a reduction in distribution transformer costs."
"Discussion of a paper by C. F. Hill, T. R. Watts, and G. A. Burr published in the January 1934 issue, pages 176–82, and presented for oral discussion at the insulation and protection session of the South West District meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., April 24, 1935. This paper was also presented at the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1934, and other discussion was published in the March 1934 issue, pages 478–81, April 1934 issue, pages 618–22, and September 1934 issue, page 1311. G. W. Gerell (Union Electric Light and Power Co., St. Louis, Mo.): The experience of my company with the power factor testing of bushings is rather limited. In 1933 the 66 and 132 kv transformer and oil switch bushings on Westinghouse equipment at the Cahokia and Venice stations only, were tested by means of the Schering bridge. In the fall of 1934 all bushings on the 66 and 132 kv system were tested. In addition quite a few 33 kv bushings in certain of the a-c distributing substations were included."
"With a confirmed registration exceeding the average recorded at summer conventions during the past 15 years, the Institute's 51st annual summer convention was held June 24–28, 1935, on the Cornell University campus at Ithaca, N. Y. A comprehensive digest covering all the principal activities, including the several program and other innovations, is given on this and the following several pages. This news report, together with the technical papers, all of which have already been published in Electrical Engineering, serves to convey to the entire membership, the essence of the convention activities."
"“For outstanding contributions to the development of electric clocks and means for controlling central station frequencies,” the seventh in the series of the Institute's Lamme Gold Medals was presented during the annual business meeting to H. E. Warren (A'02) president of the Warren Telechron Company of Ashland, Mass. A brief biographical sketch of Medalist Warren may be found on page 351 of the March 1935 issue of Electrical Engineering."
"The Engineers' Council for Professional Development, sponsored by the leading national engineering societies, the engineering educators, and the engineering examiners announced during July the inauguration of its program for accrediting engineering schools in New England and the Middle Atlantic States. The program will be offered to the other parts of the country after a trial period in these 2 regions. Notice is being sent to the presidents of all degree-granting engineering schools in the 2 areas advising them that the E.C.P.D. stands ready to receive requests for consideration of particular engineering curricula which the schools may wish to submit. The plan to be followed in the accrediting procedure was outlined in Electrical Engineering for February 1935, pages 249–50, and March 1935, page 343."
"All plans for the Pacific Coast Convention of the A.I.E.E., which will be held in Seattle, Wash., August 27–30, 1935, have been completed. Headquarters will be in the Olympic Hotel, one of the finest and one of the most modernly equipped hotels in the northwest. The convention committee has arranged an excellent program which provides for the presentation and discussion of timely technical papers, yet there is ample opportunity for sports, trips, and recreation, as well as other specially arranged trips for the visiting women. The Puget Sound area is noted for its scenic beauty, and the convention, which will be held during part of the week preceding Labor Day, affords members and their guests advantages for several good vacation days."
"In fulfilment of by-law requirements, a second posting is hereby given to the necessity of all nominations for the Lamme Medal for 1935 being submitted not later than November 1, 1935. (See Electrical Engineering, June 1935, pages 669–70.) Presentation of the 1934 Lamme Medal was made to Henry E. Warren (A'02) president of the Warren Telechron Company, Ashland, Mass., at the opening session of the Institute's recent summer convention at Cornell University."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., on June 26, 1935, during the annual summer convention of the Institute."
"The Holley Medal for 1934 was awarded on June 20, 1935, at the semi-annual meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers at Cincinnati, Ohio, to Dr. Irving Langmuir, associate director of the General Electric Research Laboratory, for his contributions to science and engineering, especially in the development of the gas-filled incandescent lamp, of the thoriated filament for thermionic emission, of atomic-hydrogen welding, of phase-control operation of the grid-controlled gas-filled tube, and in fundamental research in oil films."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Sponsored jointly by the Sections' committee and the committee on student Branches, the regular conference of officers, delegates, and members of the Institute was held in the Moot Court Room of Myron Taylor Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., Monday and Tuesday, June 25 and 26, 1935, as a part of the summer convention activities. In attendance at these sessions were delegates from 55 Institute Sections and counselor-delegates from 8 of the 9 Districts in which committees on student activities have been organized. In addition to these officially constituted delegates, there were other officers, officers-elect, and Institute members in attendance, bringing the total recorded attendance up to 95. The principal topics under discussion at the conference were essentially as outlined in a program previously mailed to the delegates and others:"
"An innovation introduced during the recent A.I.E.E. summer convention at Ithaca, N. Y., June 24–28, 1935, was the holding of a series of informal or round table conferences on technical and educational problems of the electrical engineering profession. These conferences were scheduled primarily for the benefit of specialists and the younger members, and were, in general, sponsored by subcommittees of technical committees. They afforded an opportunity for an interchange of ideas, regardless of whether or not the individuals interested were members of technical committees."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or to reject them entirely."
"C. A. Adams (A'94, F'13, member for life and past-president) Lawrence professor of engineering, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., has, with his co-authors J. C. Hodge and M. A. MacKusick, received honorable mention in connection with the award of the 1934 A.I.E.E. national prize for best paper in theory and research, for their paper “High Frequency Induction Furnaces.” Professor Adams was born in 1868 in Cleveland, Ohio, and graduated from Case School of Applied Science in 1890 with the degree of bachelor of science. In that year he became a draftsman with the Brush Electric Company, and in 1891 joined the teaching staff of Harvard, where he has remained since that date. At Harvard University, he was first an instructor, becoming assistant professor in 1896, and professor in 1906. Since 1914 he has held the chair of Lawrence professor of engineering. From 1919 to 1921 he was also dean of the engineering school. In 1905 he received the degree of electrical engineer from the graduate school, and in 1925 the university bestowed upon him the honorary degree of doctor of engineering. Professor Adams has carried on an extensive consulting practice and has conducted numerous investigations on electrical machinery, being particularly active in the electric welding field. He has served the Institute in numerous capacities, and was its president 1918–19. Among the many committees on which he has served are the standards and electric welding committees, of which he has been a member during the Institute's year just ending."
"Sergius Paul Grace (A'03, F'21) assistant vice president of Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., New York, N. Y., died suddenly June 23, 1935. Doctor Grace was born at Farmington, Mich., on October 11, 1875. He graduated from the University of Michigan in 1896 with the degree of bachelor of science in electrical engineering, and started work that year for the Detroit (Mich.) Telephone Company, making important contributions to its problem of corrosion in underground cable sheaths. Between 1898 and 1900 he was chief engineer and operating manager of the People's Independent Telephone Company of New Orleans. After a few months as superintendent of equipment for the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company of Texas, he became equipment engineer of the Erie Bell Telephone System in 1901, and becoming general superintendent of the Beaumont Independent Telephone Company of Texas later that year. In 1902 he became chief engineer of the Interstate Independent Telephone Company of New Jersey, later that year becoming assistant engineer for the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, whose headquarters were then at Boston, Mass. From 1902 to 1908, he was chief engineer of the Central District Telephone Company, Pittsburgh, Pa., and from 1908 to 1913 he was general superintendent of plant of the Central District company. During this period, when local telephone lines were being changed from open wires to aerial cables, Doctor Grace made many notable contributions to this development. In 1913 he became a consulting telephone engineer, at New York, N. Y., and the next year became chief telephone engineer for the Public Service Commission of the state of New York. From 1915 to 1920, he was assistant to the chief engineer of the New York Telephone Company and other companies of the Bell system. After a few months as assistant to the president of the Standard Chemical Company of Pittsburgh in 1920, he became advisory engineer to the general counsel of the New York Telephone Company. In 1921 he was appointed engineer on foreign wire relations for the American Telephone and Telegraph Company; in 1922, construction engineer, New York Telephone Company; later in 1922, general superintendent of by-products, American Telephone and Telegraph Company; in 1924, commercial development engineer of the Western Electric Company; in 1925, communication development engineer of the Bell Telephone Laboratories; in 1927, general commercial engineer of the laboratories; and in 1928 assistant vice president of the laboratories, which position he held until the time of his death. Doctor Grace was well known throughout the country for his lectures and demonstrations on the telephone system and its byproducts. He was a past-president of the New York Electrical Society and of the Engineers Society of Western Pennsylvania. He was a member of the Engineers' Club of New York. He had been honored with the degree of doctor of engineering from the University of Michigan, and that of doctor of law from Notre Dame University. Doctor Grace had served the Institute as a member of its board of examiners, and on committees on education, meetings and papers (now technical program), and communication."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary before Aug. 31, 1935, or Oct. 31, 1935, if the applicant resides outside of the United States or Canada."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently, are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"On the first of December next, after thirty-eight years of active and unusually productive service as a mathematical physicist and inventor, Dr. george a. campbell retires from active membership on the staff of the Bell Telephone La boratories."
"As mentioned in the preceding article by Dr. Jewett, the first and second of the three following memoranda were the basis of methods of designing transpositions for voice-frequency circuits. They applied particularly to non-loaded circuits but the theory was readily extended to cover loaded circuits. In an earlier and more general study written in 1904, Dr. Campbell considered the involved equations necessary to a n exact solution of the crosstalk problem and deduced simplifying approximations and convenient artifices for avoiding lengthy derivations."
"This article discusses the phenomena involved in low-frequency induction between power and telephone circuits and describes a demonstration which has been developed to illustrate certain of them."
"One of the important factors limiting the working net losses of two-wire cable circuits is the possibility of excessive circulating currents or actual singing. A theory is developed for the computation of the distribution of singing margins on groups of two-wire circuits from the known gains and losses and known functions of the deviations of loading coils, loading coil spacing, cable capacitance and office equipment. The distribution functions of circulating current margins, of active return losses and of active singing points are also derived. The possible application of these methods to specific problems is discussed and an example of the computations involved is given. The theory herein involves certain approximations and empiricisms in determining the singing limitations but it is believed to give an answer which approaches the exact answer rather closely."
"Previous electronics analyses are extended by the introduction of more general boundary conditions. The results are applied to the calculation of the rectifying properties of diodes at very high frequencies and to the amplifying properties of negative grid triodes at both low and high frequencies. The effect of space charge on the various capacitances in triodes is discussed, and formulas for the amplification factor and plate impedance are presented in terms of the tube geometry. Finally, a discussion of the input impedance of negative grid triodes is given together with a comparison of the theoretical value with the results of measurements made by several well-known experimenters."
"The response of circuits containing vacuum tubes with any number of electrodes due to impressed electromotive forces, and under such circumstances that the time of transit of the electrons is negligible, is discussed when arbitrary feedback is present between the circuits connected to the electrodes, each of which may carry conductive current. The use of the theory is illustrated by obtaining first and second order effects in typical three-electrode tube circuits. In a previous paper in the Bell System Technical Journal, October, 1934, the treatment was restricted to three-electrode tube circuits in which it was assumed that the amplification factor of the tube was constant and that no conductive grid current was present. In the present paper these restrictions are removed."
"It is shown that transatlantic long-wave radio field strength is related to the 11-year cycles of terrestrial magnetic activity, sunspots, solar limb-prominences, and ultra-violet radiation. The directness of correlation between long-wave radio and these other phenomena is apparently only approximate. Very good seasonal and monthly correlation is obtained between magnetic activity and daylight radio transmission. Magnetic storms are shown to have prolonged and delayed effects on day and night radio transmission, obscuring tendencies for 27-day recurrences on long waves. No reference is made to the probable mechanism of long-wave radio transmission because a paper, now in preparation, will be concerned primarily with this subject."
"With this issue the first of a series of briefer articles, known as “Technical Digests,” is being introduced. These will review papers by Bell System authors which appear in the current numbers of other scient ific or engine ering periodicals."
"Recent investigations, conducted at the Bell Telephone Laboratories and elsewhere, have demonstrated that the lead-antimony alloys almost universally employed in storage cell construction are far from ideal for the purpose from the elect rochemical standpoint. It has been shown that in the course of normal operation of the present type cell, antimony is leached out of the positive electrode, passes through the solution and deposits on the negative. where it promotes “localaction” and self-discharge. Also, it has been demonst rated that stibine is generated in perce ptible amounts by the present type battery on over-charge."
"There has been a constantly increasing interest in an inexpensive service for small harbor and coastal craft such as tugboats, private yachts, coastal passenger ships, merchant craft and fishing vessels. This interest became particularly evident in New England in 1931 and since equipment suitable for the purpose had recently been developed by Bell Telephone Laboratories, the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company undertook the establishment of a marine radio telephone service."
"Puget Sound with an area of about 6,000 square miles serves a large region whose principal resources are lumber and fishing. Movement of the raw products to points where the manufacturing and processing are carried on comprises a major part of the short-haul shipping in the Puget Sound area. Large lumber and pulp mills have been permanently established at locations where deep sea shipping and rail facilities are readily available. Logs in the form of large booms are towed to the mills from the sources of supply which extend throughout the area drained by the Puget Sound. The average haul of each boom is about 75 miles and consumes several days. Because of the relatively long time a tug is isolated in each operation, some economical means of dispatching and directing the activities of the tow boats from the land headquarters is desirable. In the case of fishing, there is an even greater need than in the case of log towing for dose contact between fishing boat and cannery in order that both the fishing and cannery activities may be coordinated so as to prevent waste of fish during large runs."
"Astudy of conditions on board fishing trawlers and harbor craft indicates that the radio units must be small in size, rugged in construction and adaptable to remote control. Further, the units must permit operation by non-technical personnel and require a minimum of power for their proper functioning."
"The equivalent electrical representation of a piezoelectric crystal when used as an element in an electrical circuit has been discussed by several investigators.1 who have arrived at the circuit shown on Fig. 1. Apparently, however, no circuit has been evolved for representing a crystal when it is used as a transducer to couple electrical circuits to mechanical systems. Since such crystals 2 are used in loud speakers, microphones, supersonic radiators, and other apparatus, it is a matter of importance to obtain such a representation. This paper discusses such an equivalent circuit and relates the elements to the mechanical, electrical, and piezoelectric constants of the material. When used as a purely electrical circuit, this representation reduces to that of Fig. 1."
"Some Methods for Making Resonant Circuit Response and Impedance Calculations.1 H. T. Buoenbom. This article presents a series of short-cut methods for the computation of the amplitude and phaseresponse characteristics of one- and two-mesh circuits; the extension of the method to three-and four-mesh networks is carried out formally. It also treats th e impedance-frequency characteristics of singly resonant circuits. The plan of attack in the single-circuit impedance and multi-mesh response cases is to express the desired circuit or transfer impedance as a polar numeric multiplied by a sizing constant which turns out to be a simple reactance element of the circuit."
"When wires are close to each other as they are in cable, the mutual inductance coupling between pairs is not a simple number, constant at all frequencies. Because of the non-uniform and non-symmetrical distribution of current over the cross-sections of the conductors the “effective mutual inductance” is of the form M = Ma + jMb where both Ma and Mb vary with frequency. This paper discusses the results of certain measurements which have been made of the effective mutual inductance between straight wires and between cable pairs over a wide range of frequencies extending up to a million cycles. This is of interest in connection with crosstalk problems in cable carrier telephone systems."
"Short-wave fading is largely due to phase interference between multiple path signals of varying path length. Fortunately, stable angular differences usually exist between these paths at the point of reception. It is therefore desirable to employ antenna directivity which is “steerable” and sufficiently sharp to accept only one of the several paths in order to reduce this fading. This paper describes experiments made with a “steerable” directive antenna during reception of transoceanic short-wave signals. The results demonstrate that sharp angular discrimination is a basically sound method of combating fading which is due to phase interference."
"The growth of the field of electric wave filters since their original discovery by Dr. G. A. Campbell shows the filtering action by no means inheres in any particular ph ysical configuration. Filters have been built, for example, as recurrent or non-recurrent ladder structures, as lattices, as bridged-T's, and in a variety of combinations of transformers with ordinary elements. No general theory uniting all these configurations has, however, been developed. Each structure has been treated by methods which are primarily adapted to that configuration alone. In consequence, such questions as the relations between filters of different types and the possibilities of securing improved characteristics by going to a still wider variety of configurations have remainedunsettled."
"The increasing usefulness of wave filters in the telephone plant, together with rising standards of quality, emphasizes the need of a systematic method for approximating ideal characteristics as closely as we please. By an ideal filter is meant a network having the properties of a distortionless transducer over a given frequency range and suppressing all other frequencies. A design method is presented whereby an arbitrarily close approximation to these properties may be realized in a physical network. Examples of actual designs illustrate the engineering features involved in the practical application of the theory."
"This paper, a sequel to one entitled “Ultra-Short-Wave Propagation,” deals with transmission in urban areas. The experimental data were obtained in the City of Boston on a frequency of 34.6 megacycles per second by means of a specially equipped motor car for carrying the receiver while the transmitter was fixed or vice versa."
"The consideration of a simple and practical splicing scheme for minimizing the recurrence of same-layer adjacencies among telephone circuits in long cables leads to a problem in Number Theory whose solution calls for some extension of the previous work in this field. The solutions for numbers not greater than 139 have been computed, and a table of these is included."
"The earlier parts of this series have dealt with the charge, the mass, the stability or instability, and the liability to transmutation, of the atom-nucleus; this one deals with the two remaining properties which are ascribed to nuclei, to wit, magnetic moment and angular momentum. Since these exhibit themselves chiefly by influencing the spectra of the atoms to which the nuclei belong, the bulk of the article is concerned with various laws of atomic spectra; advantage is taken of the opportunity to describe some features of the electron-systems surrounding the nuclei, and to explain how the concept of the spinning electron enters into atomic physics. There follows an account of various experiments in which streams of atoms are deflected by inhomogeneous magnetic fields, and the laws of the deflections indicate the magnetic moment or the angular momentum of the nucleus or both. Finally there is a summary and tabulation of existing knowledge of these quantities."
"Frequency components are found for the ferromagnetic induction produced by a small magnetizing force of two incommensurable frequencies. Because of hysteresis the results depend intimately upon the ratios of these frequencies and of their amplitudes. With these ratios as criteria, two solutions are provided, adequate for most modulation problems of this character occurring in the field of communications."
"Reverberation Time and A bsorption Measurements with the High Speed Level Recorder.1 E. H. BEDELL and K. D. SWARTZEL, JR. It has been common in reverberation theories to neglect the effect of the stationary wave pattern in a room and to assume a logarithmic decay of the sound energy. In many cases this assumption of a constant decay rate is not fulfilled, and in particular it is well known that the decay curves as obtained with available instruments, which indica te either the pressure or the velocity at a point in the sound field, show marked fluctuations in the decay rate. The rate of decay, in general, varies-during the decay period, from point to point in the room, and may depend upon the position of the sound source, and the location of ab sorbi ng ma teri als. Very rapid fluctuations in the decay rate have commonly been averaged out by the measuring apparatus it self, either by making the indicating instrument sluggish in its action, or by measuring the average intensity over finite time intervals during the decay period."
"In a recent paper 1 amplifiers capable of handling frequency band widths of the order of 1,000 kc. or more are described, together with terminal apparatus for effectively utilizing these wide bands for telephone, telegraph and television purposes. The paper confines itself to the coaxial line structure for transmitting these wide frequency ranges but points out that broad-band transmission is also applicable to balanced conductor systems. The present paper discusses briefly some of the possibilities of the more familiar balanced circuits, circuits more or less as they now exist in the present plant being first considered, following which are circuits obtained by new construction. Wide-band transmission over balanced circuits offers interesting possibilities both for circuits in the present plant and for new construction."
"The structure dependence of magnetic characteristics of the more important magnetic materials is discussed. The natural grouping into soft magnetic materials and hard or permanent magnet materials is used. In the first group are: magnetic iron, silicon steel and the alloys of iron, nickel and cobalt. The latter group includes the well-known carbon and alloy steels, and also the newly developed precipitation hardening α-solid solution types. Examples of the latter are the iron-nickel-aluminum and the iron-cobalt-molybdenum alloys. In discussing the properties, the relationship to structure is emphasized. With the soft magnetic materials purification and the development of proper structural configuration are important. The special metallurgical control required to produce certain magnetic materials in dust form is described. The generalization is made that permanent magnet characteristics are due to precipitation effects resulting from decomposition of supersaturated solid solutions."
"Physical principles underlying the characteristics and performance of multi-electrode vacuum tubes are presented in simple form in this paper. Presentation of the subject is based, as far as possible, on the well-known theory of the three-electrode tube. It is shown that the definitions of electrical tube parameters applicable to triodes are, with certain modifications in their interpretation, also applicable to tubes having more than three electrodes."
"The amplification obtainable in a vacuum tube amplifier is limited by the noise in the circuit. Of the various sources of noise the most fundamental and inevitable is thermal agitation of electricity. Other sources are the influence of ions and of shot effect and flicker effect on the current in vacuum tubes, poor contacts, mechanical vibration, and hum from a.-c. cathode heating. These noises and their effects in limiting amplification are discussed in this paper. Although the natural noise level of an amplifier is exceedingly low, modern amplifiers have reached such a stage of perfection that their noise levels often are practically at the natural limit."
"Vacuum tubes as oscillators and amplifiers at frequencies greater than 100 megacycles (3 m.) are considered in this paper. The type of construction used in a large number of different tubes, and the characteristics of the tubes, are presented. Circuits for operating the tubes also are considered and the theory of operation and the factors limiting ultra-high frequencies are discussed. Principal attention is given to the tubes as oscillators, with brief consideration of the problem of amplification."
"The paper discusses the theoretical methods employed by the authors in dimensioning horizontal rhombic receiving antennas. Experimental proof is given of the engineering accuracy of the directivity calculations on which this work is based. There are included brief descriptions of the antenna-to-transmission line coupling circuits and the resistance terminations for rhombic antennas."
"The exact equation of the propagation of plane sound waves in air is not linear and consequently harmonics and combination tones are generated. The pressure of these extraneous frequencies in terms of the fundamental pressure, frequency, and distance from the source has been mathematically determined by Rayleigh, Lamb and others. These equations have been applied to an exponential horn. Measurements of the second harmonic and combination tones have been made at various points within a long tube, and in front of an exponential horn. Measurements, in general, agree with theory, but the absolute values are lower than the calculated values."
"North Atlantic Ship-Shore Radio Telephone Transmission During 1932–1933.1 Clifford N. Anderson. This pa per extends the analysis of ship-shore radio transmission data for an additional two-year period beyond that report ed on in a previous paper. Contour diagrams show the variation of signal field with time of day and distance for the winter, summer, spring, and fall seasons and for the approximate frequencies 4, 8, and 13 mega cycles."
"Earlier published work has shown that, while the chief features of ultra-short-wave transmission over “air line” ranges are calculable from optical theory, there are deviations from this theory at the greater distances where a bending around the earth occurs. In this paper the results of a further study of these phenomena are given. It is shown that transmission to regions beyond the optical range is determined by conditions which are not constant and which, in fact, can produce great signal strength changes. The variable percentage of water vapor normally present in the atmosphere is suggested as a possible cause. The explanation seems, therefore, to involve a combination of diffraction and refraction, this latter variable with time, and at times predominant."
"Previous to the development of amplifiers most of the instruments used in acoustical research depended for their operation upon purely mechanical principles. This paper includes a brief survey of such of these instruments as are still of interest in connection with the investigation of technical or research problems in acoustics, but it deals primarily with the more recent electrical devices used in the study of air-borne sound waves. The limitations and fields of application of various electrical instruments, including microphones, particularly adapted to definite types of acoustic measurements, are discussed."
"There have appeared in the Reviews of Modem Physics two excellent summaries on thermionic emission, one by Compton and Langmuir1 and one by Dushman.2 Compton and Lan gmuir, while dealing primarily with discharge in gases, also discussed many phases of thermionic emission. Dushman's article is a comprehensive review on thermionics. He faithfully reflects whatever viewpoints and experiments appear in the literature. Besides reviewing the work that has been performed since 1930, the present article will be an attempt to review in a critical manner some of the matters which in the preceding reviews were left undecided. On the other hand, no attempt will be made to give a complete presentation of all the views appe aring in the literature. As to the close connection between thermionic and adsorption phenomena, this will be dealt with in an article now in preparation."
"The paper shows how Watson's solution for the propagation of electromagnetic waves over perfectly conducting spherical earth merges into the Abraham solution for propagation over a perfectly conducting plane for shorter distances. The effects of refraction by the lower atmosphere and of the imperfect conductivity of the earth are taken into consideration. The magnitude of the former, which is appreciable, is obtained. The latter is relatively unimportant for ocean water and frequencies of the order of a megacycle and less. The theoretical solution for radio propagation over perfectly conducting spherical earth with atmospheric refraction is in agreement with available experimental data for propagation over ocean water for frequencies below a few megacycles. Eckersley's extension of Watson's solution to take into account the effect of the imperfect conductivity of the earth by the phase integral method is found to contain approximations which render its results questionable."
"This paper describes the construction of a short-wave single-sideband reduced-carrier system of radio transmission. It also reports the results of comparisons made between this system and an ordinary short-wave double-sideband system between England and the United States. It was found that the single-sideband system gave an equivalent improvement in radiated power over the double-sideband system averaging 8 db. This is in good agreement with the theoretical improvement to be expected."
"This is a theoretical paper relating to circuits of straight parallel wires traversed by alternating currents under such conditions (frequency of the alternating currents, diameter and spacing of the wires) that the resulting non-uniformity of the current distribution is sufficient to play an important part in determining the mutual and self impedances. The paper deals primarily with the mutual impedances; but incidentally the self impedances are dealt with almost as fully, except that no numerical calculations are made for them. Part I is mainly a discussion of the physical nature of the mutual and self impedances in the generalized manner necessitated by the non-uniformity of the current distribution. It deals with wires which are short enough compared with the wave-length so that the complicating effects of propagation are negligible and so that the current in each wire can be regarded as an aggregate of filamentary currents. Part II establishes, by recourse to electromagnetic wave theory, calculation formulas for the mutual and self impedances per unit length of a pair of long straight parallel transmission circuits forming a square array. Values of the mutual impedance are calculated over a frequency-range of 1 to 1000 kilocycles per second, for three cases of the circuits, and are compared with measured values."
"For several years attention has been directed by Bell Telephone Laboratories toward determining the characteristics of ultra-high frequencies and their possible application to thet elephone plant. This led to the belief that ultra-high-frequency radio might find a useful field as an adjunct to the wire telephone plant in crossing natural barriers where other means might prove difficult or expensive."
"The first two-way telephone conve rsations completely encircling the earth took place at New York City, during April, 1935. The two telephone instruments used were located in separate rooms on the 26th floor of the Long Distance Building at 32 Sixth Avenue, New York. In connect ion with these tests, Mr. Gifford, President of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, spoke with Vice-President Miller, and a number of ot her persons conversed over this around-the-world circuit for some thirty minutes on April 25th."
"Receiver Band-Width and Background Noise.1 C. B. AIKEN and G. C. PORTER. In doubling the band-width of a radio receiver, it might be supposed that the apparent noise level would increase about 3 db since the noise energy brought in should be doubled. However, the high-frequency components of noise may be very much more troublesome from the standpoint of the listener than the low-frequency components. An experimental study shows that this is actually the case. Thus, if the noise level is low, as it should be whenever an effort is made to employ high fidelity reception, the dependence of the signal-to-noise ratio upon band-width is very apparent. While there are many variables involved, it seems safe to conclude that in doubling received band-width, the required increase in field strength may even be as much as 8 to 10 db."
"Some characteristics of 16-mm. sound by optical reduction and re-recording from 35-mm. film are discussed: by means of loss curves characteristic of the two methods; by reviewing the effects upon the sound quality of compensation for such losses; and by noting the effects, other than simple output loss, that arise in some of the steps of each process."
"A process of background projection is described employing a side-guided projector, and a cut-out in the gate permitting images of the edge of the running film and two film perforations to be projected upon the screen simultaneously with the image of the picture, so as to check the steadiness of the picture. Screen illumination requirements, effects of film shrinkage, and pilot-pin registration are discussed."
"Characteristics of the sodium and high-intensity mercury arcs of interest to motion picture engineers are discussed, including starting, stability, regulation, power-factor, and multiple and series operation. Energy distribution as related to the sensitivity curves of photographic emulsions and to the use of filters is shown by graphs. Methods of controlling the light distribution and intensity are explained."
"Recent progress in piezoelectric loud speakers for theater use, including a new unit for upper registers, is described. Frequency-response characteristics of this unit alone and in combination are discussed and demonstrated. — The character of the load upon the output circuit, and its effect upon the efficiency and the production of satisfactory response in the low and high registers, are discussed."
"Aluminum is inherently a good reflector of radiation in the ultraviolet, visible, and infra-red portions of the spectrum. Means of developing and maintaining this high reflectivity in commercial reflectors are described. The new Alzak process of electrolytic brightening and oxide coating makes available aluminum reflectors, both specular and diffuse, having reflection factors up to about 85 per cent. The Alzak reflectors have a hard, abrasion resisting coating of clear transparent aluminum oxide on the surface which makes them weather-resistant and easily cleaned."
"The physical principles upon which the operation of the three-element vacuum tube depends are presented in simple form and the terms usually applied to the tube, its operation as an amplifier, and a simple approximate method for computing the power output and percentage of distortion are explained. — No new material is presented in the paper although some of it is presented from a somewhat different point of view from that usually found in the literature. An effort has been made to present in reasonably compact form the essential features of the subject most useful to engineers interested in vacuum-tube applications. — The subjects discussed include: the portion of electron theory upon which the fundamental principles of vacuum-tube operation are based; space charge, the three-halves power law, temperature and voltage saturation; characteristics of the three-element tube; definition and physical significance of the terms plate resistance, transconductance, and amplification factor; dynamic characteristics, power output, and distortion; various means of coupling the vacuum tube to its associated circuits; and means for testing vacuum tubes for adequate thermionic emission."
"After pointing out that the original difficulties in developing 16-mm. sound-film seemed only to spur the engineers to accomplish their solutions, it is shown how today a program of eight full reels of sound-film can be projected with quality exceeding that of 35-mm. quality at a corresponding stage of its development. The shortage of sound-film subjects that hampered the distribution of 16-mm. equipment is rapidly being relieved, and interest in the industrial and institutional uses of sound film are growing. Future progress depends upon the equipment manufacturers; the film problems have been solved. Projectors must be made simple to operate, the frequency response must be broadened, they must operate silently; and, most important of all, their ultimate success will depend upon the cost of equipment and film service."
"A simple densitometer for use in sound processing laboratories is described, employing the Weston photronic cell and a 50-cp., 12-v. lamp. The cell current is measured by a microammeter, suitably damped. The instrument retains its calibration well, densities can be measured within 0.005, and readings are consistently duplicated."
"An informal and non-technical commentary on a number of comparatively new aspects of Hollywood production methods. No attempt is made to include all the recent developments in this field, but examples are cited in set construction, lighting, photography, recording, re-recording, and processing."
"The growth of the motion picture industry in the Soviet Union during the past ten years is briefly traced; then the troublesome transition period following the advent of sound; and finally the status upon which the present motion picture activities are organized, leading to the production and distribution of highly artistic features, newsreels, scientific films, etc."
"The activities of the Standards Committee since the Spring Convention were restricted principally to the completion of the Standards Booklet, which has already been published in the November, 1934, issue of the JOURNAL, and to the consideration of proposals from, Europe relating to the standardization of 16-mm. sound-film. It was previously stated1 that a report from the German Standardizing Committee would receive the attention of the S. M. P. E. Standards Committee and that an official reply would be prepared."
"This report is largely supplementary to the general survey presented at the last convention.1 The intervening period has shown a great increase in the use of sound film for advertising and educational purposes. While a larger portion of the films are on 16-mm., one manufacturer reports a large increase in the use of 35-mm. portable projectors."
"For some months past, the Color Committee has been engaged in preparing a glossary of technical and proprietary terms used in color cinematography. At first thought it may appear that such a contribution might be a waste of time and effort, and that the attention of the Committee might more profitably have been turned to something more creative. There are, however, certain factors that raise the labors of the Committee out of the category of the inconsequential."
"The work of the Historical Committee has progressed with good results. Besides many new accessions received for the collection at the Los Angeles Museum and the reconditioning of apparatus received, a number of biographies and autobiographies are in the course of preparation."
"Inadequate screen illumination has long been a problem of major importance in the projection field generally. Satisfactory screen illumination has been confined mainly to the larger theaters, the smaller theaters being either unable or unwilling to make the expenditure necessary to improve the quality of screen light."
"The non-rotating high-intensity d-c. arc is considered in conjunction with equipment that has been developed for applying it to motion picture projection. The current and consumption ranges and the crater opening of carbons when used in this equipment are tabulated. The effect of burning the arc at various currents, arc lengths, and positions is shown graphically in relation to the light upon the projection screen. The important features of the lamp mechanisms and optical systems are discussed. The sources of power used with this new type of arc are grouped in relation to arc stability and general characteristics. The influence of external magnetic flux upon arc stability and appearance of the arc is also illustrated."
"The history of 16-mm. development and some of the problems with which the engineers were confronted in the effort to obtain good sound quality are outlined. In view of the difficulties with 35-mm. film, and the greatly reduced speed at which 16-mm. film must run, the prospect of obtaining really satisfactory sound was at first far from encouraging; but with careful technic, commercial quality was obtained, and continuous progress has been made since. Elimination of printing losses by recording directly on each 16-mm. film from a good 35-mm. master print with suitable electrical compensation for high-frequency losses, gave the best films obtainable. Improvements in optical reduction sound printers have more recently made this system look extremely promising. Extended studies of film characteristics and processing, and improvements in optical recording systems have contributed in an important way to securing better sound. — Projector design has centered about questions of compactness, convenience, and simplicity as well as performance. Several of these items are discussed, and expedients employed are described. — The advent of real amateur talking pictures calls for complete sound and picture recording apparatus of utmost portability and simplicity. In this undertaking the quality problems are renewed in more difficult form, and many new problems of electrical, optical, and mechanical, as well as photographic nature, had to be solved."
"Since 1928, a very considerable amount of study has been devoted to the photographic problems which arise in connection with recording and reproducing sound. A general understanding has been reached as to the principles involved and as to the conditions which will permit satisfactory quality in the sound reproduced. This lecture represents a summary, therefore, of the general conclusions which have been reached by those interested in the subject. — Sound has three attributes, namely; (1) loudness, (2) frequency or pitch, and (3) wave-form, quality, or timbre. For perfect reproduction of sound, the reproduction should be perfect in respect of all these three attributes. The intensity range is limited primarily by the ground noise, and secondarily by the modulation which is permissible before the wave-form becomes sufficiently distorted to be noticeable to the ear. The ground noise is due primarily to physical defects in the films, such as scratches and dirt, although even in a perfectly clean film there is a very small amount of ground noise due to the granular structure of the silver deposit. This ground noise can be diminished by systems of noise reduction. — The reproduction of high frequencies is dependent upon the resolving power of the photographic film, and the effect of loss of these high frequencies will be illustrated. Special apparatus has been designed for an investigation of the quality of the reproduction, including special sensitometers and densitometers. The analysis of the quality of reproduction and the application of graphic analysis are demonstrated, with an illustration of some of the results attained."
"Certain technical phases of studio lighting are discussed, including the new line of Mazda lamps for photographic purposes; new materials and contours for reflectors; an analysis of the several means of achieving diffusion; and the projection of shadows upon backgrounds."
"The history of the various attempts to make x-ray movies is briefly traced. In the beginning there was only visual examination. When it became possible to take still x-ray photographs, the next step was to “animate” them by producing a series of stills showing different phases of movement. — With improvements in x-ray apparatus and reinforcement screens the time of exposure was reduced so that it became possible to take a series of x-ray photographs on a long strip of film. Speeds up to four pictures per second have been reached, though one experimenter claims speeds up to fourteen frames a second. — The “frames” so taken are copied on 35-mm. or 16-mm. film and shown in regular equipment. The 16-mm. display device described attracted great interest at the Chicago Century of Progress Fair and has since excited like interest at other popular expositions. — The methods employed to animate x-ray films are not only of historical importance, but were of considerable legal importance in connection with patent litigation on regular motion picture animation processes."
"The development of the stainless steels is related with the important position they have assumed in chemical and other industries because of corrosion resistance and unique properties. The steels suitable for use in motion picture industries are classified into two groups: steels for structural purposes, and steels for resistance to corrosion. A brief description of these steels and their possible applications in the industry are given."
"The nature, manufacture, and applications of laminated bakelite are described briefly, and reference is made to its current and possible uses in motion picture work."
"The chemical and physical properties of the alloy Inconel are described, with especial reference to the requirements of film processing equipment. Examples of applications of Inconel in motion picture film handling apparatus are given. As a background to the use of Inconel, the more familiar properties and uses of monel metal and pure nickel with photographic solutions are discussed briefly."
"The light sources available for motion picture projection are discussed in relation to their performance characteristics and their application to existing equipment and conditions of service. The optical systems used with the sources, the usable size and shape of the source, the brightness and light output of the filament, and ventilation are discussed."
"The nature of wave motion and amplitude and phase distortion of waves are discussed. Wave filters of different types and important uses of wave filters are defined and discussed, and finally, a mechanical model of a wave filter is described to demonstrate visibly their essential characteristics."
"Modern theatrical practice requires a switchboard capable of controlling elaborate electrical effects in connection with stage spectacles. Three-color house lighting, four- and five-color stage effects, frequently involving as much power as 1500 kw., require a flexible, compact, easily controlled system for accurately and rapidly effecting the various combinations and changes of lighting. — The reactance dimming electronic tube controlled switchboard here described is capable of presetting the intensities and combinations of lights, and easily controlling the effects required for several scenes in advance without interfering with the combinations for the scene in use."
"This paper primarily treats of the advantages of x-ray motion pictures from the physician's and anatomist's points of view. To this end the author cites two examples in which a test apparatus making x-ray motion pictures has been used for diagnosis and for anatomical research. — The requirements necessary for satisfactory x-ray motion pictures are outlined, and the limiting factors of the apparatus that has already been used are discussed. Descriptions of two test arrangements of apparatus are given."
"It is difficult to trace to its beginning and fix a date for the conception of an idea that leads to an invention. Of the interesting impressions of my childhood, the one made by the toy known as the Zoëtrope was among the most outstanding. The idea that its principles might be applied to producing a series of consecutive instantaneous photographs of objects in motion, so as to reproduce the motion, was suggested by something I had read, and the fascinating thought persisted in my mind until the Anschutz tachyscope I saw at the Chicago World's Fair in 1893 brought a realization of its actual accomplishment."
"Although many limitations to learning have been overcome by the inventions of such tools as the telescope and the microscope, education has had, to a large extent, to depend upon the printed word. The introduction of the sound motion picture, in numerous forms and combinations, makes available for education the benefits of all such tools, including the advantages of slow-motion, time-lapse, and animated cinematography, and sound recording and amplifying devices. The educator is thus enabled to transcend many obstacles in the way of presenting and clarifying abstract concepts."
"In order to obtain machine type development in the rack process, a rack has been devised by means of which the film is moved continuously over rollers during processing. The film traces a helical path passing over rollers carried by an upper and a lower shaft, and is then led back along the bottom of the rack where a closed loop is completed by splicing the ends together. — The film is propelled by rotation of the upper shaft and rollers which, in turn, are driven by a motor and a reduction gear. The lower shaft is allowed a slight parallel displacement in the vertical direction to compensate for changes in the length of the film which occur when it is wetted. — A rewind and roll holder are mounted upon a removal plate for use in loading and unloading film or leader, and the film is removed to a reel for drying. A wide variety of processing conditions have been met successfully in processing sound and picture negatives and prints."
"William Van Doren Kelley was born at Trenton, N. J., March 8, 1876. While a youngster in the Trenton schools, he exhibited a talent for invention and in addition, became interested in theatricals. Thus was laid the foundation for his later activities in the field of the motion picture. His ability as an inventor and his interest in the theater led him to stage acts of magic and illusion with the acumen and showmanship of a much older person."
"The performance standards required for musical reproduction were established in the research laboratories of the General Electric Company early in the period of development of Photophone equipment. Experience has proved the necessity of the refinements found desirable in the research laboratories. — In this paper several developments are referred to that have reduced distortion. It is pointed out that perfect equipment does not necessarily result in satisfactory musical reproduction. Consideration must be given to the acoustical properties of scoring stages."
"A method of recording sound upon cellulose acetate disks for playback purposes in studio production is described. Means of adapting old wax recording equipment to the new recording material are explained, and comparisons with soft wax and shellac pressings are made. Location recording equipment for playback disks is made possible at minimum expense by the use of acetate disks."
"A continuous optical reduction sound printer is described, which prints by optical means from standard 35-mm. film to standard 16-mm. sound-film. Since the longitudinal reduction of the sound-track is greater than the lateral reduction, an anamorphote optical system is required. In the present case this optical system consists of a combination of spherical and cylindrical lens elements. Data are given which show the change in the frequency characteristic of the 16-mm. sound print as a function of the 35-mm. negative shrinkage."
"The development of the Technicolor process is reviewed historically with particular reference to the guiding motives and technical objectives. This leads up to a brief description of the three-color camera and the three-color imbibition printing process. Following this is a discussion of the photographic principles involved in color photography particularly as they apply to the Technicolor three-color process."
"Color constitutes another step in the steady advancement of the motion picture toward realism, the same principles of color, tone, and composition applying to the motion picture as to the art of painting. In order fully to appreciate the color picture, a “color consciousness” must be adopted, the lack of which is tantamount in a degree to color blindness. — Monotony is the enemy of interest, a fact that argues for the color picture; but a superabundance of color is unnatural. Psychologically, colors fall into the “warm” and “cool” groups, and each color and shade has its psychological implications: red—danger, blood, life, heat; green—nature, outdoors, freedom, freshness; etc. To build up personalities and to harmonize emotions and situations, these principles must apply, even to the extent of “color juxtaposition,” or the psychological relation of the various colors to each other. For example, of two adjacent or contiguous colors, each tends to “throw” the other toward its complement, considerably affecting the emphasis or import of the color."
"A brief discussion of whether color in the motion picture is here to stay, pointing out that black-and-white was a convention that had to be accepted because of technical limitations at the beginning of the art. Had color-pictures been invented first, a black-and-white picture would now seem flat and inadequate—although there are beauties in the unreal shadows that can not be denied nor be destroyed. The paper concludes with a few remarks upon the use of color for enhancing and emphasizing the emotional situations of a picture, and the effects to be achieved by carefully selecting the colors of the clothing or uniforms of the actors and of the backgrounds and lighting."
"The manner in which improvements in newsreel sound quality were effected by coordinating the recording practices of the newsreel producers is described. A theater survey revealed that the projectionists reduced the fader setting for newsreels from one to five steps, or three to fifteen db., below the nominal fader settings for feature pictures to obtain the same volume level in the auditorium. By adherence to accepted recording practices in the studio newsreels are now being reproduced at the same fader settings as feature pictures, with a considerable improvement in sound quality. A brief outline is given of the preparation of the newsreel from news camera to theater."
"The limitations of the sensitometric method of controlling film development as actually affecting the sound recording are reviewed. An auxiliary test designed to check the quality of the development technic is outlined. In this test, the over-all photographic process, including the light-valve circuit which controls the exposure of the negative, and the photoelectric cell which receives the current impulses in accordance with the transmission of the positive film, are considered as an electrical unit. This unit is analogized to a transducer in an electrical transmission circuit and, as such, its fidelity of transmission can be determined by comparing the electrical output with the electrical input. In practice this is accomplished by applying a constant amplitude of electrical input to the light-valve circuit at values of valve spacing selected to allow the peak exposures to extend to the limits of the exposure regions that are to be used in the recording. The resultant projected levels for each value of valve spacing are measured with a volume indicator on the projection amplifier. If the readings obtained are all the same, true reproduction over the exposure range used is indicated."
"The use of engineering technic in determining the screen value of each scene in a motion picture before filming is described, and the methods used for control during the process of production are explained."
"Some of the requirements of the ideal light-modulating system for recording sound upon film are discussed, together with features of design and certain operating characteristics which should be incorporated into and exhibited by such a system. The Photophone light-modulating system is outlined, its general adaptability to the production of a wide variety of sound-track types reviewed, and its practical conformity to the ideal requirements pointed out."
"About two hundred members and guests of the Society assembled at the Fall, 1935, Semi-Annual Banquet at the Wardman Park Hotel, Washington, D. C., on October 23rd. Guests at the speakers' table included: Mr. Will H. Hays, President of Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America, Inc., and speaker of the evening; The Honorable Kent Keller, Chairman of the Library Committee of Congress; The Honorable Justyn Miller, Special Assistant Attorney General of the United States; Dr. Lyman J. Briggs, Director of the U. S. Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C.; Dr. R. D. W. Connor, First Archivist of the United States; Dr. John G. Frayne, Electrical Research Products, Inc., Hollywood, Calif.; and Mr. J. I. Crabtree, Editorial Vice-President of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers."
"“The Presidencies of the Royal Photographic Society, The Society Française de Photographie, and the Deutsche Kinotechnische Gesell-schaft have also been accorded Honorary Memberships. Those names which now appear upon the Honor Roll of the Society, all of whom were Honorary Members, with the exception of the first two, since the Honor Roll was not established until after their deaths, are:"
"The award for the most outstanding paper published in the Journal of the Society for the year 1934 has been made to Drs. Loyd Ancile Jones and Julian Hale Webb for their paper entitled “Reciprocity Law Failure in Photographic Exposure,” published in the September, 1934, issue."
"For the past twenty years Dr. Edward Christopher Wente has been engaged at the Bell Telephone Laboratories and its predecessor organization in acoustical problems and in the development of special types of acoustical devices. One of the early problems upon which he worked was the development of a high-quality microphone that would translate sound into corresponding electrical currents with a degree of fidelity not previously approached. Microphones available at the time, while successful in telephony, were unsatisfactory for the transmission of music or the more subtle characteristics of the-voice, upon which the success of actors and public speakers so largely depended. This problem was successfully met in the condenser microphone, which depends for its action upon the change of electrical capacity between a metal diaphragm and a metal plate as the diaphragm vibrates. Microphones of this type are used extensively at the present time not only for recording sound for motion pictures but also for broadcasting and recording phonograph records. They have been invaluable in fundamental studies of the characteristics of speech and music, and are part of the international reference system for telephony. The John Price Wetherill Medal was awarded to Dr. Wente by the Franklin Institute in recognition of this work."
"I am a movie fan. Fourteen years of most intense application to the problems and realities of this complex art-industry have increased this enthusiasm. I like them—as the most ardent youngster likes them. I like them for the happiness they bring; for the relief they afford; for the information and knowledge and inspiration they carry; for the sheer service they accomplish as they lift a tired human being out of his fatigue and rebuild him with the magic of entertainment."
"That constancy of record speed should be sought in sound recording and reproduction has been recognized throughout the history of the art, but standards of performance have usually fallen far short. Especially have the speed variations due to sprocket-tooth action failed to receive from many engineers in the sound-picture industry the consideration which their harmful effects warrant. This is due to imperfect understanding of inherent limitations and to the fact that the impairment of sound quality is of a kind which may easily be ascribed to other causes. An analysis is made of the loss of true tones and production of spurious tones, as a result of speed modulation at sprocket-hole frequency. A recorder in which not only are disturbances of this kind eliminated, but all speed variations reduced to a minimum, has been available to the film recording industry for several years. Film phonographs, re-recording machines, and projector sound heads of which this is true are now also available, thus making possible an over-all performance which sets a new standard in the sound reproducing art."
"After discussing some of the requirements of a multi-frequency test-film, some of the early efforts to produce test-films and the difficulties involved in so doing are described. The present technic of producing test-films is very involved because of the need of exactness of calibration. Microdensitometric measurements of each frequency are made in order to assure as great constancy of the sound level as possible. The films when finished are reproduced on a special reproducing system which furnishes correction values for each film."
"The difficulties encountered in achieving a uniform degree of development from point to point upon a photographic surface and the reasons therefor are discussed. Various methods tried in an effort to realize uniformity in the development of plates and cut film are described. Continuous wiping of the surface of the film being developed is necessary to remove emerging reaction products sufficiently rapidly, and recommendation is made of the use of a series of jets of developer to achieve this without damage to the emulsion surface."
"Re-recording seems to be a necessary part of present-day production technic, because of which many of the limitations that otherwise face the original recording process may be altered. The increasing demands for higher quality make it desirable to examine the available methods for the original recording so that the eventual re-recording process may yield the best results. — This paper reports the results of an examination of the various methods of employing wax and film recording for this purpose. Such problems as the required frequency characteristics, harmonic distortion, available volume range, ground-noise suppression, speed constancy, and other similar considerations have been reviewed theoretically and experimentally. While the data itself will not be presented in detail, the results of the investigation and the conclusions that have led the RCA Manufacturing Company to regard the so-called push-pull film recording method superior for re-recording work, will be outlined."
"Considerable interest has been expressed in the possible recommendation of a series of screen sizes for normal use with the view to adopting them as recommended practices. Some interesting comments and suggestions on the subject have been submitted by the various Committee members, but before presenting them in the form of a report it has been deemed advisable fist to study additional data and information that have come to the attention of the Committee."
"After a brief description of the various factors involved in designing and operating equipment for making micro motion pictures, apparatus developed by the author is described. This apparatus is the result of years of experience in such work in the biological laboratory, particularly in collaboration with Dr. Alexis Carrel during the past eleven years. The details of the apparatus are discussed under the headings: Optical Bench, Camera and Driving Mechanism, Motors, and Control Panel. A table is given showing the manner of presetting the equipment for any purpose of research. The paper concludes with a brief reference to the use of 16-mm. equipment in micro- and macrocinematography."
"This paper supplements a previous one in which the advantages of operating tungsten filament lamps at very high efficiencies were explained. The paper discusses the development of a glass filter, which when used with 33-lumen-per-watt lamps gives practically perfect white light, suitable for color photography."
"After discussing briefly some of the difficulties involved in equalizing in the conventional manner the frequency characteristic of the light modulator previously described by the author, a process is described of equalizing by means of a small drop of oil placed at a chosen point upon the vibrating ribbon. By varying the size of the drop and its location upon the ribbon, a whole series of characteristic curves is afforded from which any desired one may be chosen. The advantages of such a system, as regards the frequency response, factor of safety for the ribbon, and amplification, are described."
"Discussion is limited to gelatino-silver halide emulsions for development. Sensitivity is broadly defined as the reciprocal of the minimum incident light-energy per unit area giving a definable effect upon development. This definition is illustrated from the characteristic curve. The factors discussed are (a) intrinsic properties of silver halide layer; and (b) extrinsic factors, or exposure conditions. Under (a) are discussed grain size, nucleation, optical sensitizing, inhibition, layer thickness, etc.; under (b), intensity level of illumination, temperature, and humidity. Sensitivity is also envisaged broadly as a differential between progressive and regressive phases of latent-image formation."
"The use of motion pictures in the educational program of the New York City schools is described under the headings: equipment; results attained by using motion pictures; sources of films; available supply of films; the question of sound-films; what can be done to expand the use of motion pictures in education; and the future of visual education."
"Attention is directed to the fact that projectionists work in sound-proof rooms and must rely wholly upon an observer for graduations in sound volume. — Wide variations in the density of variable-density sound-tracks occur in various scenes of productions. Under such conditions consistently good sound reproduction is often impossible in the theater, especially with one-man projection rooms. Steps should be taken to remedy the condition in order that the projection may do full justice to the efforts of the producer."
"In view of the great interest that has attached to the recent litigation between Paramount Publix Corp. and Altoona Publix Theaters, Inc., vs. American Tri-Ergon Corp., the Board of Editors of the S.M.P.E. deemed it desirable to make them a matter of record in the Journal and readily accessible to the members of the Society. They are reproduced herewith."
"One of the essential requirements of a high-fidelity talking motion picture performance is a satisfactory reproducer. The most important limitation to such reproduction at this time, and one that is seriously handicapping those who desire to provide better recordings, is the general lack of sufficiently constant film speed in reproduction. This prevents full use of the advances made in recording machines and technic. In certain kinds of subject material, the performance is ruined for a critical audience by this limitation. — For various reasons, little has been published on this problem. This paper describes the technical details of the Photophone high-fidelity reproducer. Measurements of its mechanical constants, together with an elementary analysis of the underlying theory of operation are given."
"Various factors involved in projecting 16-mm. pictures for industrial and educational purposes are fully analyzed, according to three main divisions: (1) the illumination of the screen and how it is modified, (2) the effectiveness of projection as regards the audience, and (3) miscellaneous related factors. Each broad division is broken down into sub-divisions enumerating the principal items involved. Curves show the relative cost of attaining desirable screen illumination with various lamps, and the relations between lumens, foot-candles, and screen sizes. — Based upon the analysis, recommendations as to a standard method of measuring screen illumination, and a list of suggested screen sizes for various lamps and lenses, are given as having been found satisfactory for ordinary work."
"The possible means are discussed for obtaining the same amount of recorded reverberation with a directional microphone as is obtained when recording is done, in an equally configurated studio, with a non-directional microphone. First, there is assumed an equal distance between microphones and the source of sound; and, second, equal mean absorption in the two studios."
"The Argentometer consists essentially of a light-source, a glass cell for holding the solution to be tested, a photronic cell, and a microammeter. The action of the instrument depends upon the change of transparency of a solution containing silver and hypo after the addition of sodium sulfiide and certain other chemicals. Formulas for the three solutions required and complete instructions for making a silver determination are given. Estimations can be made on hypo solutions containing either potassium or chrome alum and the results can be read directly from a scale upon the microammeter."
"The following recommendations for projection room planning have been formulated after an exhaustive study by the Committee and are submitted for adoption as standards. The Committee urgently recommends their acceptance by all architects and builders in constructing and remodeling projection rooms so that a greater uniformity of projection room construction will exist in the future."
"The Sound Committee this year has decided to concentrate upon four projects, the first two of which will be discussed in some detail because the Sound Committee will need the coöperation of every one if it is to accomplish anything on them. The object of the first project is to achieve greater uniformity in the sound records from the various producers. Certainly, it will be agreed that that is necessary and desirable; but at once the question arises as to what is the proper or ideal recording characteristic. The Sound Committee three years ago recommended1 to the Standards Committee that the dividing line between recording and reproduction should be the release print—that all losses incurred up to the release print“…should be compensated for in the recording operation. The frequency characteristic of the reproducing apparatus should be flat except for a correction for whatever slit is used.” This recommendation, however, has not been adopted, as yet, by the Standards Committee, and it is the sense of the present Sound Committee that the recommendation should be reconsidered in the light of the developments and data accumulated during the past three years."
"During the Spring Convention at Hollywood, Calif., May 20–24, 1935, a symposium on new motion picture apparatus was held, in which various manufacturers of equipment described and demonstrated their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"The study of mechanical transients occurring at very high speeds requires a camera capable of much higher picture rates than the conventional slow-motion camera. This problem has been attacked from several angles, but the methods of approach have followed along two avenues—the utilization of a moving optical system to preserve a stationary relationship between the film and the image, and the utilization of a brief and brilliant flash of light to establish the exposure."
"The Wall camera (Fig. 5) was originally developed in 1926 and 1927 for newsreel work and has recently been redesigned for use either in the studio or in the field. The camera can be equipped with either light-valve, flashing lamp, or galvanometer. It is driven by a direct-drive, 12-volt, dc. motor of approximately l/20 hp. The motor can be of the interlocking type, if desired, to run with a 12-volt motor of the same type upon a sound recorder. The camera can also be furnished with a synchronous motor for synchronizing with a sound recorder, if desired. Each motor has but one bearing fitted at the outer end of the armature shaft. The inner end of the armature shaft is direct coupled to the shutter shaft, providing a direct form of drive. The outer end of the shutter shaft constitutes the inner bearing for the armature shaft."
"The headquarters of the Convention will be the Wardman Park Hotel, where excellent accommodations and Convention facilities are assured. Registration will begin at 9 A.M., Monday, October 21st. A special suite will be provided for the ladies."
"In the earlier stages of the development of the sound recording system of RCA Photophone, the balance seemed to swing at times in favor of variable-density and at times in favor of variable-width recording. The close tolerances for exposure and development which the variable-density system requires made the variable-width system seem preferable. Difficulties in obtaining, with narrow recording slits, sufficient exposure for variable-width recording on high-resolution films were overcome by various improvements in the optical recording system and galvanometers. A slit image 0.00025 inch wide is standard for the newest recording equipment. — While for variable-density recording a number of combinations of exposure and development of both negative and positive have been worked out which give a linear relation between exposing light and print transmission, practical considerations, especially that of obtaining reasonably high outputs, have led to departures from the ideal conditions. Measurements have been published which show the wave-form distortion found in actual recordings of both types, made under representative conditions. The measurements indicate considerably greater distortion in the variable-density records for amplitudes in excess of 50 per cent modulation. For smaller modulations the distortion in both systems is of the order of 5 per cent or less. Variable-width records are subject to a wave-shape distortion which becomes appreciable at very high frequencies. Printing to a suitable density largely neutralizes this type of distortion. — The output from variable-width records is higher by 3 to 8 db. With respect to ground-noise due to scratches and dirt on the positive, the variable-density system may be expected to show a better ratio; while the hiss due to film graininess, and noise due to imperfections of the negative, is less in variable-width records. The fact that extension of the frequency range makes the latter type of noise a more serious factor, plus the fact that the prints will be relatively new, puts the variable-width system at advantage for first-run theaters and for master records for re-recording. — The system of monitoring by observing the moving light spot in variable-width recorders and the ability to judge a recording by inspection of the negative are of considerable practical importance. The full benefits of the recently developed “push-pull” sound-track are obtained only with variable-width recordings."
"Methods of measuring the illumination output of 8-mm. and 16-mm. projectors are discussed, with particular reference to some of the many variables that affect the results. This output value, expressed in screen lumens, permits determining the screen size for any desired foot-candle level. But because screen brightness depends also upon the reflection characteristics of the screen material, there is presented a classification of various types of screen material. For each class of screen, maximum and minimum illumination values are suggested, with the object of keeping the screen brightness within the limits necessary for good picture quality. Charts illustrate the relation between these factors and between the screen size and projection distance."
"Sensitometric and pictorial tests made and processed in eight major Hollywood motion picture laboratories are discussed with special reference to the characteristics of the printed over-all curves. Attention is called to the importance of keeping the difference between contrast and gamma distinct. Several theoretical and practical conclusions resulting from the study of these tests are formulated."
"Three special film types, Infrared, Finopan, and Superpan Reversible, recently produced by the Agfa Ansco Corporation, are discussed regarding their photographic characteristics and possible usefulness in special fields. Technical data as to speed, color-sensitivity, and physical properties are given for Infrared and Finopan, in comparison with those of Superpan negative film."
"It is shown that the motion picture industry involves the artistic utilization of the products of research and development in the fields of mechanics, sound, heat, light, electricity, and chemistry. It is urged that the closest coöperation between the aesthetic and technical groups be maintained to the end that increasingly effective tools should be produced by the technicians and that these tools may be successfully employed by the artistic groups."
"A short account of some of the early difficulties of introducing sound commercially and artistically into the motion picture, followed by a description of the development of dubbing, substitution of voices, recording music, etc. Some of the problems of recording sound for long shots, short shots, etc., variation of distance between actor and microphone, are discussed, in addition to various methods employed in scoring musicals and voices for long-shot and short-shot quality."
"The standards of the Society contain, at present, a list of nine items under the heading “Recommended Practice.” These items, while not so fundamentally important as the dimensional standards, are valuable as suggestions for the guidance of the industry. A recommendation of screen brightness should logically be included in this section."
"During the Spring Convention at Hollywood, Calif., May 20–24, 1935, a symposium on new motion picture apparatus was held, in which various manufacturers of equipment described and demonstrated their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"A new machine added to the line of film editing equipment manufactured by this company consists of two parts, the machine head, Model SRV, and the combined amplifier and speaker, Model UR. The machine head (Fig. 5) consists of two curved film slides with a guide roller at each end of each slide. The film slide for the sound-film is equipped with an adjustable rail and adjustable guide rollers so that either standard 35-mm. film or split film may be used. An exciter lamp unit, the same as used on all Moviola sound reproducing equipment, is supported above the small opening in the slide under the sound-track, and a caesium type of photoelectric cell is located in the compartment provided for it beneath this slide. The slide for the picture film has a frame-size aperture illuminated through an opal glass pane by a small electric lamp. A set of viewing lenses, the same as those used in all Moviola film viewing machines, is arranged over this illuminated aperture and can be hinged out of the way when threading the film over the slide and under the guide rollers."
"For a long time a demand has existed among the smaller theaters for a source of white light similar to that obtained from the dc., high-intensity arcs and at a price that the average theater owner could pay. This demand seems to have been met by the new d-c., high-intensity arcs with non-rotating positive carbons."
"When the use of 16-mm. equipment began to be extended to sales and advertising activities of large firms for small group showings, and the possibility of the use of 16-mm. equipment in small-town theaters became apparent, we surveyed the field and decided to make an equipment particularly adapted, if possible, to more or less continuous service, and in this connection decided upon the use of an intermittent sprocket instead of the customary claw movement, in order to increase the life of the film and make its use most profitable."
"In any future anthology of the inventors and inventions that have combined to make possible the modern sound picture, the work of Eugene Augustin Lauste, who died in Montclair, N. J., on June 26th, will inevitably receive important consideration. In terms of time, his experiments may be said to date before what have been described as the “dawn days” of the motion picture and to extend down to the present time."
"This report of the Progress Committee covers the year 1934. The advances in the cinematographic art are classified as follows: (I) Cinematography; (II) Sound Recording; (III) Sound and Picture Reproduction; (IV) Film Laboratory Practice; (V) Application of Motion Pictures; (VI) Publications and New Books; Appendix A—General Field of Progress of the Motion Picture Industry in Great Britain; Appendix B—General Field of Progress of the Motion Picture Industry in Japan."
"Ultra-short-wave television transmissions with pick-ups using electron scanning, together with cathode-ray tube reception, are regarded as likely to be acceptable for television broadcasting to the public. Comparison of the received television pictures with theater and home motion pictures indicates superiority of the latter but shows that satisfactory entertainment should also be obtainable from the former. For various physical and psychological reasons which are listed, the vogue of the theater is likely to continue, provided motion picture methods are constantly kept up-to-date and that television technic is studied and utilized to such an extent as may prove practicable."
"By analyzing the capabilities of television and of the theater, it is shown that they are best adapted to serve different needs. Television is indicated as an adjunct to radio broadcasting in creating the “theater of the home.” The use of motion picture film for television presentations is predicted, and mention of work in this direction by the Don Lee Broadcasting System is made."
"The mechanographic system of recording known as the Millerfilm is described. It makes use of a special film having a coating of clear material upon the base, which, in turn, is covered by an extremely thin layer of opaque material, approximately 2 microns thick. The cutting tool is a specially prepared sapphire, the edges of which make a very oblique angle with the surface of the film, cutting a hill-and-dale sound-track. The track is cut “clean,” the demarcation between the opaque and transparent portions being very sharply defined; the opaque portions have a very high density, and the transparency of the clear portion is uniform."
"The new Kodachrome reversal process is a three-color subtractive process, the colors being formed by combining the three complementary or “minus” colors, which absorb the corresponding primary colors from the projection beam. There are three emulsion layers, separated by thin layers of clear gelatin, the first layer being sensitized to blue, the second to green, and the third to red light. — The film is exposed in the ordinary manner, with the emulsion toward the lens. Processing is done by the reversal process, and the three positive images are their differentially dyed the three corresponding minus colors. The finished Kodachrome film is projected in the usual manner, without filters."
"The introduction of an efficient plane polarizing sheet material in sizes large enough to cover lenses and lights has made simple the use of polarized light in photography. An Eastman Pola-screen, incorporating this material, over the lens, allows unusual sky effects, photographing obliquely through glass and water without reflections, and photographing other surfaces obliquely to show surface detail. When the subject is illuminated through larger Pola-screens, in addition, complete control of gloss results. Faces so photographed can appear unnaturally perspiry, or devoid of all lustre, depending upon the camera Pola-screen position. Reflections from animation cells can be greatly reduced, and photographing any small subject that presents a reflection problem is quite simple. Various trick lightings and color effects are also attainable."
"A re-recording method is described in which the dialog automatically controls the recorded level of the background effects or music, the dialog depressing the level of the effects or music from the normal value. This is accomplished by using the rectified dialog currents to control the grid-bias of a variable-mu tube. Its use results in greater intelligibility and realism in sound pictures."
"Throughout the week of the Convention probably as many as 400 or more persons attended from time to time, the attendance at the last session 011 Friday evening numbering nearly 350 persons. The Convention was probably the most outstanding, both as regards presentations and attendance, that the Society has ever held. The attendance from the East was 120."
"10:00 a.m. General Session, Gerald F. Rackett, Chairman, Pacific Coast Section of the S. M. P. E. Presiding."
"The panoramic lens described was developed at a time when such a lens seemed a desirable means of achieving the large angle of view required under certain conditions for the so-called wide film, the film width in question being 70 mm. The full-field angle across the film with this lens was nearly 50 degrees, as compared with about 28 degrees for standard 35-mm. film using the same focal length lens. The film is held in a gate curved horizontally, the curve facing the lens and of a radius approximately equal to the focal length of the lens. The lens revolves about its rear nodal center, so that the axis of the lens sweeps out the entire angle of the picture. Because of the design of the lens, and a special shutter revolving with it in a plane near the film, allowing only a limited portion of the field to be imaged upon the film at a given instant, a sharp picture results."
"Methods of construction for achieving desirable reverberation characteristics in motion picture recording studios are dealt with. Ways and means are discussed which make possible a high degree of absorption of the low frequencies and a lesser degree of absorption for the high frequencies. Attention is called to the problem of monaural hearing; to the psychological effect of over-damped rooms; and to the question of feasible sound-insulation."
"A shape of projected picture is suggested differing from the present one in respect of its conforming more nearly to the contours of the central and peripheral-vision areas of the eyes. In addition to the physiological advantages of such a shape, greater flexibility and effectiveness of artistic composition in cinematography and in projection would be achieved. The present shape limits the size of the photographic images and details of the picture, which would be considerably enhanced in the broader picture shape herein described. The possibility of cinematography of a type that would more nearly depict what the eye sees in real life is discussed."
"A method is described of mechanically recording sound upon used film by means of a diamond cutting stylus. The same instrument can be used for reproducing the sound so recorded, merely by substituting a needle for the stylus, and making appropriate changes in the input and output of the amplifier. The quality of the recordings is surprisingly good, and is proving satisfactory for certain purposes."
"The evolution of mechanical aids to learning is traced briefly, and the advantages of the motion picture in overcoming limitations to learning are discussed. Experiments for testing the efficiency of silent and sound pictures as media of instruction are cited. — Reference is made to some of the problems that must be solved before educational motion pictures can be used more widely in formal public instruction. Suggestions are made for measuring objectively the effects of sound motion picture elements upon the observer by means of mechanical recordings and detailed study of the individual."
"A brief description, in narrative fashion, of the improvements that have come to the motion picture since the day of the silent, with particular reference to dramatic tastes and preferences, from the point of view of the critic."
"The following descriptions of equipment were included among the presentations in the Apparatus Symposium at the New York Convention of the Society, Oct. 29– Nov. 1, 1934."
"The work done in connection with the photographic effectiveness of National motion picture studio carbons has been extended to include the Sun Arc carbons and 1/2 × 12-inch Rotary Spot carbons. — Energy distribution curves of the two latter types of carbon at various currents are given, and the beneficial effects of increased current upon the photographic effectiveness of these two types of light-sources are emphasized. The desirability of the higher currents in using these sources is very clearly demonstrated. Included are the effects of the use of a gelatin filter frequently used with the Sun Arcs and Rotary Spot carbons."
"The spectral energy distributions are given of Sunlight, National motion picture studio carbons, Sun Arcs, and Rotary Spot carbons under the conditions found in the studios. From the spectral energy distributions, the amounts of actual energy received by an actor from one of these light-sources at various distances, and the numbers of carbon arc lighting units required to equal the intensity of sunlight have been calculated. — A chart is included which shows the relative amounts of photographically effective, penetrating infrared and long-wave infrared radiations emitted by the various arc units."
"Up to the time of the development of the telephone current amplifier, measurements in sound were for the most part made with instruments operating on mechanical principles. At the present time almost all such measurements are made by means of microphones, amplifiers, and other specially designed electrical instruments. This paper gives a descriptive survey of various recently developed electrical devices used in acoustical studies and a brief discussion of their limitations and their field of application."
"Frequency modulation of a sound signal is caused by non-uniformity in the record speed during the recording or reproducing process. This source of flutter is discussed and was demonstrated at the May, 1935, Convention. — The paper includes a discussion of the physical nature of frequency modulation, the physiological effects of frequency modulation, the methods of producing known amounts of artificial flutter, and the methods of measuring flutter."
"A portable flutter-measuring equipment is described which may be used to measure the uniformity of motion of recording and reproducing machinery. The instrument filters out noise components, magnifies the frequency modulation, converts it to amplitude modulation, and finally demodulates it to obtain an indication of the frequency variation present in the original signal. — In flutter-correction work adjustments are made on the reproducer under the guidance of the measuring set. The cumulative effects of change of pressure or position of the guide shoes, alignment of sprockets or bearings, although individually small, are often considerable. To study flutter in recording machines 3000-cycle records are made, which are subsequently reproduced on known flutter-free machines and measured with the instrument."
"Some of the studio illuminating equipment used for lighting in Technicolor productions is described, together with brief discussions of the spectral characteristics of the various units. Included are the broadside, supplementary lighting units, the Sunlight arc, the Sun Spot and Solar Spot, diffusing mediums and color filters, and arc silencing devices and methods."
"The educational motion picture has come as a safeguard against the extreme verbalism in education of a few years ago, which often led to serious misconceptions by the pupil of facts that can now be presented as true, unbiased reproductions of life itself. In judging the attributes of a good teaching film certain definite criteria should be followed, as regards content, emotional force, interest, manner of presenting the subject matter, etc."
"During the Spring Convention at Hollywood, Calif., May 20–24, 1935, a symposium on new motion picture apparatus was held, in which various manufacturers of equipment described and demonstrated their new products aud developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
