"This paper concerns a new and improved method of remote control which may be applied to electrical devices of any sort. Special attention is given to the exposition of the basic principles of the system as applied to the remote control of radio receivers. The new control arrangement utilizes the alternating-current power line as a medium for transmission of control signals from a remote unit to the controlled device, and is therefore free of the limitations imposed by control cables. The system utilizes a small oscillator, located at the remote point, operating at a frequency between 200 and 400 kilocycles. Use of the 60-cycle line voltage as plate supply causes the radio-frequency output voltage of the remote unit to be modulated in intensity. Control signals are transmitted through the alternating-current power line to the controlled point, where the phase of the 60-cycle line voltage is compared with the phase of the envelope of the radio-frequency control signals in any one of several phase detectors which may be employed for selective purposes. Relays in the detector output circuits are energized and may be made to close power circuits to any desired electrical device. Remote control of the start of operation of an electric appliance may be had without the expenditure of stand-by power in receptive circuits at the controlled point."
"This paper presents the results of a quantitative study of the relationship between the proximity of great-circle transmission paths to the magnetic pole and of signal stability during terrestrial magnetic disturbances. Reception from Europe as observed at Riverhead, Long Island, and San Juan, Puerto Rico, is compared during normal and disturbed periods. The great-circle path from Europe to San Juan is about 1000 miles farther from the north magnetic pole than a similar path to Riverhead. A brief description of the duplicate equipment and antenna systems employed at the two locations is included. It has been known for some time that the more southerly transmission paths are apparently less susceptible to effects accompanying magnetic disturbances. The results of observations covering a period of years confirm the anticipated relationship between signal stability and proximity of the transmission path to the magnetic pole. The average advantage of San Juan over Riverhead for European signals during disturbed periods is found to be approximately 8 decibels. Evidence of higher ionospheric ionization over the more southerly path is noted in a number of cases by a comparison of nighttime cutoff effects and allied phenomena."
"Various theoretical and experimental researches have been carried out to indicate the absolute altitude of aircraft with respect to the ground by radio-wave-reflection methods. By using a new principle, frequency modulation (FM), the following results have been obtained: 1. Completely continuous indication of altitude by a steady pointer and dial is easily accomplished and altitude variations occurring during time intervals of a few milliseconds are clearly detected. 2. Very low altitudes, less than four meters, are indicated quite easily. 3. The indication is quite linearly proportional to altitude. 4. The absolute error is zero and the relative error is less than a few per cent. 5. Altitudes in excess of 160 meters can be measured with a power consumption of only 3.9 watts. The above results show that this sounding gear is suitable for blind-landing use in aeronautics. Moreover, this gear may be applied to satisfy navigational requirements in foggy weather, to avoid the collision of ships, or to lead them into a port."
"The current-voltage characteristic of a diode can be expressed at low currents by an equation of the form i = GεkE. An analysis based on this relation shows that the rectification efficiency and input resistance of the usual form of gridleak-condenser diode circuit can be conveniently expressed entirely in terms of the grid-leak resistance R1, the amplitude of the impressed alternating voltage E, a single parameter k of the tube, and an adjustable constant b. k is determined by the cathode temperature, and is constant, for a given tube, as long as the heater voltage is unchanged. b is equal to k times the voltage which exists across R1in the absence of an impressed alternating voltage, and can be adjusted to any value within a wide range by the use of a suitable bias battery. It is shown that large values of b give higher efficiencies of rectification, but that, if b is of the order of 100 or more, the effciency is practically as high as can be obtained, and is nearly independent of b. The various components of alternating current flowing through the diode are given by An= 2A0fn(kE), in which Anis the amplitude of the nth harmonic of the impressed frequency and A0is the direct current through the diode, which last can be separately computed. fn= In(kE)/I0(kE). In(x) is the nth order Bessel's function of a pure imaginary argument."
"In communication work it is often necessary to design a simple lumped network, the impedance of which approximates at all frequencies that of a certain distributed circuit, such as a transmission line. The present treatment includes a clarified method of making such a design. Former design methods have the common fault that negative circuit constants may be called for. This paper presents a simple method by which the difficulty is avoided. Moreover the best design under the particular circumstances in question may be arrived at quickly and directly. The impedance functions of two common forms of simulative networks are developed and design equations for the establishment of the parameters are presented. Since four elements are to be established it is possible to specify four arbitrary conditions. This is most conveniently handled by specification of the vectorial impedance at two frequencies. The major portion of this paper is concerned with the relation which must exist between these impedances in order that the calculated circuit parameters will all be positive. For the sake of completeness conditions leading to negative parameters are also considered."
"Records of the field strength of 10-megacycle signals have been made at a distance of 30 kilometers from the transmitter. \"Bursts\" of received energy, of a few minutes' duration, were noted at times when no reflection from the F layer was present. When the density of ionization in the F layer was above the critical value for this frequency, occasional short periods of strong absorption at a low level have greatly reduced the strength of the reflected signal. Both of these phenomena are apparently due to small volumes of dense ionization in the E region, and they are consistent with a theory that such local ionization is caused by the transit of a single large meteor. Examination of astronomical data on the number and size of meteors shows that this is a possible explanation of the abnormally intense ionization frequently observed in the E layer. The same recently accessible data indicate that the constant meteoric bombardment of the atmosphere can maintain a continuous background level of ionization in the E region of about the magnitude which is observed during the night."
"Data on the ordinary-wave critical frequencies and virtual heights of the ionospheric layers are presented for the period indicated in the title. The monthly average values of the maximum usable frequencies for undisturbed days, for radio transmission by way of the regular layers is also provided."
"Provides a list of recent commercial literature received by the Institute."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The Institute of Radio Engineers was formed in 1912 through the amalgamation of the Society of Wireless Telegraph Engineers and the Wireless Institute. Its headquarters were established in New York City and the membership has grown from less than fifty members at the start to almost six thousand by the end of 1932. The Institute functions solely to advance the theory and practice of radio and allied branches of engineering and of the related arts and sciences, their application to human needs, and the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members. Among the methods of accomplishing this need is the publication of papers, discussions, and communications of interest to the membership. The PROCEEDINGS is the official publication of the Institute and in it are published all of the papers, discussions, and communications received from the membership which are accepted for publication by the Board of Editors. Copies are sent without additional charge to all members of the Institute."
"Lists the Chairman and Secretary of various international and USA Sections and provides their contact information."
"Members are grouped by grade and listed by US state and city; non-US members are listed by country and city."
"Applications for transfer or election to the various grades of membership have been received from the persons listed here, and have been approved by the Committee on Admissions. Members objecting to transfer or election of any of these applicants should communicate with the Secretary. These applications will be considered by the Board of Direction at its next meeting."
"Provides a listing of current officers."
"A brief biography of John C. Warner is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A method of applying impedance inversion to the grid-modulated amplifier is described. Two tubes are employed in the modulated stage with their plate circuits connected through the electrical equivalent of a quarter-wave transmission line, and the modulating voltage is applied to the grids in series with the grid bias. By this means, high efficiency and large power output per tube are obtained. Efficiences of 65 to 80 per cent are readily secured during both modulated and unmodulated intervals as compared with 60 to 65 per cent for the high-efficiency linear amplifier. The output per tube is also greater than that of the high-efficiency linear amplifier. Only a small amount of modulating power is required, and this system is particularly adaptable to negative feedback. The effect of the impedance-inverting network on modulated waves is discussed. A simplified method of adjusting the tuned circuits of the impedance inverter is described. Formulas are derived for output and efficiency for both the high-efficiency grid modulator and the high-efficiency linear amplifier."
"Present-day high-fidelity 441-line television demands modulation frequencies as high as 4 megacycles. Tube capacitance and the flywheel effect of resonant circuits make such modulation difficult and inefficient when conventional methods are used. The author describes a system called \"transmission-line modulation\" in which modulation is effected between the radio-frequency generator and the antenna by means of a variable impedance connected across the radio-frequency transmission line. This impedance, consisting of a quarter-wave line terminating in the modulator tubes, is controlled by the voltage applied to the grids of these tubes. At high video frequencies the plate efficiency and degree of modulation compare favorably with the conventional systems employed in sound broadcasting. A 1-kilowatt experimental television transmitter employing this system, which may be modulated 80 per cent at frequencies up to 5 megacycles, is described. For demonstration purposes a 200-megacycle oscillator, modulated at frequencies up to 20 megacycles, is shown."
"A descriptive and mathematical treatment is given of a means for obtaining modulated radio-frequency power with good conversion efficiency from the usual direct-current source. The method employed is to modify the load line on a saturated radio-frequency amplifier to take care of positive peaks and to grid modulate the amplifier for negative peaks. Load modification is accomplished by absorption and in this system the absorbed power is not dissipated in heat but is returned to the direct-current source for the power-amplifier tube and thereby reduces the drain from the supply. This results in direct-current-to-carrier conversion efficiencics in the order of 50 to 60 per cent when average tubes are used."
"The increasing economic importance of power efficiency for high-power broadcast stations is illustrated in Fig. 1 showing that some 50 per cent saving is possible. Different known modulation schemes are compared as regards necessary input power, including the recent Chireix and Doherty systems. The influence of rates for electric power is stressed. A so-called \"phase-opposition\" system is discussed starting with simple circuit theory, first for seriesand then for parallel-tuned circuits. Principally the system is based on the co-operation of two generators; i.e., one \"carrier\" generator constantly excited, and one \"side-band\" generator whose excitation is changed 180 degrees in phase according to the phase of modulation. Mean input power is calculated for this system, giving about the same input as good systems for about 30 per cent modulation, but 10 to 25 per cent more power at 100 per cent modulation. The paper is concluded with a consideration of tube characteristics and possible means for obtaining linearity are shown."
"By recent measurements of input loss, output loss, and feed-back capacitance of modern high-frequency amplifier tubes (pentodes) up to 300 megacycles, a considerable increase of these values in the short-wave range has become manifest. Contrary to the opinion, expressed in several recent publications, for many types of valves the main cause of this increase must not be sought in electron-transit-time effects, but in the action of capacitances, mutual inductances, and self-inductances of the tube electrodes and of their leads within and without the tubes. A general theory of the effect of these quantities on input admittance, output admittance, feedback admittance, and mutual admittance is put forward for tetrodes, pentodes, hexodes, etc., used as high-frequency amplifiers. By three series of measurements it is shown, that about one to two thirds of the input damping of modern European high-frequency valves of normal dimensions on short waves must be ascribed to inductive effects and not to transit times. Several measurements on transit-time effects are described, showing that the transit time between the input grid and the screen grid may not be neglected as compared with the transit time between the cathode and the input grid. Theoretical formulas for inductive effects are well checked and those for transit-time effects are not so well checked by measurements. Causes for the latter deviations are given. Output admittance and feed-back admittance are almost wholly due to inductive effects in the short-wave region, as shown by several measurements described."
"Data on the ordinary-wave critical frequencies and virtual heights of the ionospheric layers are presented for the period indicated in the title. The monthly average values of the maximum usable frequencies for undisturbed days, for radio transmission by way of the regular layers is also provided."
"Provides a list of recent commercial literature received by the Institute."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The Institute of Radio Engineers was formed in 1912 through the amalgamation of the Society of Wireless Telegraph Engineers and the Wireless Institute. Its headquarters were established in New York City and the membership has grown from less than fifty members at the start to almost six thousand by the end of 1932. The Institute functions solely to advance the theory and practice of radio and allied branches of engineering and of the related arts and sciences, their application to human needs, and the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members. Among the methods of accomplishing this need is the publication of papers, discussions, and communications of interest to the membership. The PROCEEDINGS is the official publication of the Institute and in it are published all of the papers, discussions, and communications received from the membership which are accepted for publication by the Board of Editors. Copies are sent without additional charge to all members of the Institute."
"Lists the Chairman and Secretary of various international and USA Sections and provides their contact information."
"Members are grouped by grade and listed by US state and city; non-US members are listed by country and city."
"Applications for transfer or election to the various grades of membership have been received from the persons listed here, and have been approved by the Committee on Admissions. Members objecting to transfer or election of any of these applicants should communicate with the Secretary. These applications will be considered by the Board of Direction at its next meeting."
"Provides a listing of current officers."
"An economy in the frequency-channel width occupied by stations sending telephony signals can be made by removing one sideband from the transmitted spectrum. This operation however produces a distortion of the received signals which can only be minimized by an intensification of the carrier component compared with the side-band component. If this intensification is performed at the transmitter the carrier power must be enormously increased and the scheme would be impracticably uneconomic; it is furthermore impossible in broadcast technology to make the necessary alterations to intensify the carrier component in existing receivers all at once because they are publicly owned and extremely numerous. The distortion produced in the absence of carrier-wave intensification at either transmitter or receiver is mainly directly proportional to modulation. The modulation demanded in the transmission of ordinary speech and music is much less at the higher frequencies of modulation than that taking place in the lower middle frequencies. In order, therefore, to approach the ideal of the carrier- and single-side-band system, circuits have been devised to produce what is called an asymmetric side-band transmission in which only the outer parts of the side band are cut away."
"A formula adapting Maxwell's solution for a plane grating to the plane triode differs from those obtained by previous workers. The triode is simulated by a diode whose electrode separation exceeds the cathode-grid clearance by an amount which is calculated from electrostatic considerations. Corresponding results are derived for the cylindrical triode by means of conformal representation, and are shown to agree better with experiment than the formulas of King and of van der Bijl. The nonuniformity of the electric field due to the presence of the grid, \"grating effect,\" is not marked at the cathode surface, as generally supposed, the field at the cathode being sensibly uniform along the length of the cathode even for grids for which the distance between wires is equal to the cathode-grid clearance. This result is obtained directly from Maxwell's treatise. As the electrons approach the grid the nonuniformity then becomes important and the space-current stream is subject to electron optical considerations. These cause the known departures of gmfrom theory in openmesh tubes. The effects of space charge on the measured amplification factor are briefly discussed. It is shown that μ is two stages removed from the Maxwell shielding constant μ0. The importance of the cathode-plate capacitance is mentioned and an expression given for its approximate value under operating conditions."
"Data on the ordinary-wave critical frequencies and virtual heights of the ionospheric layers are presented for the period indicated in the title. The monthly average values of the maximum usable frequencies for undisturbed days, for radio transmission by way of the regular layers is also provided."
"Provides a list of recent commercial literature received by the Institute."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Copyright 1938 by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Summary form only given, as follows. This, the 57th volume of the TRANSACTIONS of the AIEE, is the first to be published under the revised publication policy adopted during 1937. Under this policy, the TRANSACTIONS contains only finally reviewed papers and correlated discussions approved by the AIEE technical program committee for presentation at national conventions or District meetings. Because of the transition from the former to the new publication policy, the content of this volume is somewhat less than normal. Included in this volume are papers and related discussions presented at the following AIEE meetings and conventions: 1. 1938 winter convention, New York, NY, January 24-28: all papers presented except those published in the 1937 volume under the former publication policy. 2. North Eastern District meeting, Lenox, Mass., May 18-20: all papers approved for presentation. 3. 1938 summer convention, Washington, DC, June 20-24: all papers presented, except nine that will appear in the 1939 volume, and two that were published in the 1937 volume under the former publication policy. 4. 1938 Pacific Coast convention, Portland, Ore., August 9-12: one paper; others will appear in the 1939 volume. The present publication policy also provides for the publication of a large proportion of the approved TRANSACTIONS papers and discussions month by month in a segregated TRANSACTIONS section of the monthly issues of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING; extra sheets are printed at the same time for ultimate binding in the annual TRANSACTIONS volume. The papers and discussions so published during the year 1938 comprise pages 1 to 712, inclusive, of this volume; pages 713 to 796, inclusive, did not appear in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. Since the adoption of the new publication policy involved a change from a program in which all papers were published in advance of presentation at an Institute meeting or convention to a program in which they all were published after such presentation, there was of necessity a transition period of several months during which papers and discussions were not completely correlated. Therefore, the first portion of this volume, up to page 492, contains: (1) discussions of some papers that were published in the 1937 TRANSACTIONS volume under the previous publication policy; (2) papers published before the related discussions became available, in order to maintain a TRANSACTIONS section of reasonable proportions in the monthly issues of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING; and (3) discussions of these papers published separately in subsequent pages. From page 493 on, all discussions published have been correlated with their respective papers. Continuing the practice of recent years, full correlation of all material in this volume has been accomplished through the medium of the multientry reference index beginning on page 797. A reference to any of the several subject entries for any technical paper will lead directly to the paper and to any discussion on- that paper published during 1938."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"In a previous paper published in Electrical Engineering [pp 768-772, July 1936] the authors demonstrated the effects of tissue capacitance on the shape of the voltage waves across tissue during the passage of current impulses of rectangular wave shape. Using the voltage wave shapes as criteria of circuit constants, this work has been extended here to define the character of the equivalent circuits. We find that for rectangular waves of current 0.001 to 0.0001 second in duration and from 1 to 10 times the rheobase (the rheobase current is the minimum current that will produce a response, that is, it is the current represented by the ordinate of the horizontal asymtote to the intensityduration curve) value in intensity that human and frog tissue behaves electrically as a simple circuit consisting of one condenser and one or more resistors. The magnitude of tissue impedance remains constant throughout the duration of the impulse. The correlation between tissue response and the voltage distribution in the tissue has been determined and is here described on the basis of the voltage distribution in the equivalent circuits."
"This paper outlines the reasons for application of pilot relay equipment, particularly of the carrier-current type. A one-cycle carrier-pilot-relay scheme is described which now makes available the desirable high-speed and back-up characteristics of step-type distance protection combined with the 100 per cent simultaneous tripping feature possible with a pilot circuit. Impedance and over current supervised single-phase directional elements are utilized for controlling carrier on phase and ground faults, respectively."
"Service experience with Petersen coils on transmission systems and networks in this country has demonstrated conclusively certain facts concerning these protective devices which may be stated as follows: 1. There is definitely a place for Petersen coils in American system-protective practice. 2. The Petersen coil will prevent the interruptions to service usually associated with transitory flashovers to ground. 3. The Petersen coil may be applied to any system insulated for full neutral displacement. 4. Petersen coils do not lose their effectiveness if used on a system when different sections are switched out of service unless the system capacitance is changed more than 25 to 30 per cent. 5. Surges during switching operations encountered on the first Petersen-coil application have not recurred in later applications. 6. By the use of Petersen coils, it is possible that from 70 to 80 per cent of all faults may be cleared without the opening of a single oil circuit breaker, and without any dip in the phase-to-phase voltage, thus improving system stability and service continuity."
"The motor is rated 400 hp, 2,300 volts, 3-phase, 60-cycles, 40°C and was designed to drive an induced draft fan having a speed range from 625-350 rpm. It closely resembles a standard synchronous motor with a rotating field, except that it has two independent star-connected stator windings installed in the same slots. Unlike a synchronous motor, however, the field terminals, after being brought out through slip rings, connect to the neutral points of the star windings. The six remaining power leads connect in a special arrangement to a series of 18 type FG-118 thyratron tubes, each having a continuous rating of 12.5A and a maximum rating of 75A. During the year the motor has been in operation at this writing, a comparatively large number of minor difficulties arose. Yet in spite ·of these, the plant operators are very enthusiastic about its performance. Experience has shown them that no drive compares with it for ease of control, for smoothness of draft regulation, for ability to rotate at very low speed, and for almost entire elimination of fan blade maintenance expense. In view of the fact that plant operators are pretty hard-headed and tend to look with suspicion on new \"gadgets,\" this response would seem convincing evidence of its success from a practical standpoint."
"A new single-channel carrier telephone system, known as the type H, has recently been developed and is now being applied. This new system offers improved performance, and also, because of its lower cost, is applicable to providing service over shorter distances than were economical with the earlier system. The type-H system, which is characterized by a number of new features and special developments, is applicable not only to the needs of telephone companies but also to those of railroads, power systems, and oil companies. In the first place it is designed to operate either on ac or on dc plate and filament supply. A repeater is available to extend the range of operation. Through the use of specially designed but simple filters the system can be employed on circuits which are equipped with bridged telephone stations at intermediate points as is frequently the case in railroad operation. A unique feature is the use of opposite sidebands of the same carrier frequency for opposite directions of transmission. The upper sideband is used in one direction and the lower sideband in the other, the carrier being suppressed. For the modulators and demodulators copperoxide \"varistors\" are employed in place of vacuum tubes. The amplifiers are single stage, employ pentode tubes and are stabilized in performance by feedback. The filters are simplified in construction by the use of coils with a new type of core material and by improved designs of paper condensers."
"The similarity principle for electrical discharges is used to correlate the most recent AIEE sphere-gap data for both positive and negative impulses. Empirical formulas are developed from which the entire range of data can be calculated to within about 1.5 per cent. Some practical results of this study are: 1. Spark-over curves for each value of spacing to diameter ratio are straight lines when plotted to logarithmic scales, at least to within the certainty of the present data. 2. A spark-over voltage chart covering the entire useful range of sphere sizes, spacings, and air densities can be constructed easily. 3. New air-density correction factors are derived which differ appreciably from those previously published."
"This paper reviews modern urban surface transit developments, traces the reasons for the changes, and outlines some of the problems involved and their solution."
"Transmitters and receivers for use at subscribers' telephone stations have been designed which not only materially improve transmission but also simplify manufacture and facilitate maintenance. This paper discusses these improvements and describes some of the new design technique employed in their development."
"This paper outlines laboratory and field tests with a surge generator and cathode-ray oscillograph which led to the co-ordination of insulation and lightning-arrester performance in substations on the 22-kv subtransmission system of the Duquesne Light Company. A basic level of 150 kv for station insulation was selected in 1932, and methods of obtaining this level are presented together with the operating record for five years. The index representing the station equipment faults in per cent of total system faults during thunderstorms has decreased 86 per cent following system-wide improvement programs modernizing insulation and arresters."
"This paper describes a new type of supervisory control system which was developed to reduce the selection time in large, multistation applications. The principles are based on the use of short and long electrical pulses and circuit designs not requiring a check-back code for assuring accuracy. It is equally applicable to a two-wire telephone line or a carrier-current channel. The design is quite flexible, permitting many alterations and additions to satisfy local conditions peculiar to its problems. The theory behind the elimination of the check or selection is explained."
"The new telephone instruments now being introduced by the Bell System result in an outstanding improvement in transmission performance in service. The evidence for this, as obtained by comprehensive laboratory and field tests, is presented here, together with a discussion of the factors responsible for this superior performance and of the consideration involved in its appraisal."
"The purpose of this paper is to discuss the factors affecting the inductive influence of rural power circuits and the inductive susceptiveness of rural telephone circuits. A summary is included of the more promising co-ordinative measures at present available for use in particular situations where such may be required. No attempt is made to present the large body of experimental and theoretical material which has been collected during this study, since this is available in other publications."
"A radically new form of core of simple structure and highly efficient performance has recently been developed. It is made by winding a long ribbon of magnetic steel in a tight spiral on a mandrel into the form of a heavy-walled circular cylinder. This core construction has been designated as the \"wound core.\" It eliminates or minimizes most of the objections inherent in other types. (a) The flux runs with the grain direction throughout. All material in the core is active material. (b) There is but one effective gap in the magnetic circuit and this is of very short length and large area. (c) Only one or two pieces of strip steel are necessary to make the average small core. These are prewound and assembled on machines at high speed. (d) The waste in handling and fabrication is very small since each element is simply cut from large reels of continuous strip made to correct width at the mill. It is the purpose of this paper to describe its present application to distribution transformers."
"Experience recorded in this paper with the method of measuring the radio influence factor of electrical apparatus recommended by the Joint Co-ordination Committee on Radio Reception of Edison Electric Institute, National Electrical Manufacturers Association, and Radio Manufacturers Association establishes its practicability and adequacy. This method fulfills the essential feature of all working standards in that the results are reproducible by quantitative measurements. Various types of output meters for determining the radio influence factor of apparatus have been investigated. For practically all applications, the present type of output meter gives an indication which is sufficiently close to the audio output. This characteristic, besides the additional advantages it has in simplicity and relative inexpensiveness, well justifies its use. Radio frequency influence factors vary in character, depending on the electrode insulation arrangement of the source, and also the dielectric medium. Humidity and relative density of the air affect the radio influence factor and accordingly certain correction factors for the atmospheric conditions need be recognized. The radio influence factor characteristics of insulation in air and oil, reported in the paper, establish that normally only apparatus in air need be considered for the effect of radio noise influence, as in coordinated apparatus design the strength of parts in oil will exceed those in air. Experience has shown that quantitative data are essential for this type of study."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a new slitter regulator which employs only one phototube, and which widens the range of control to one inch regardless of the width of the printed line."
"Static constant-current circuits have been constructed by connecting an iron-core reactor, with predetermined characteristics, in parallel with a capacitor of a specified size such that the resultant input current is independent of line voltage. This parallel circuit is connected in series with the element through which the current is to be regulated. The current will remain essentially constant for large variations in line voltage; large variations in load impedance; or a variation in both quantities simultaneously as long as the variation in voltage across the parallel circuit does not exceed certain limits. This type of circuit is useful for applications where a constant heating independent of line voltage is desired; for series lighting circuits; and vacuum-tube filament circuits."
"Harmonic generators such as used in radio transmitters are usually designed and adjusted on the basis of experience. This is because the only analysis of their performance that has been available is a laborious point-by-point method of attack which is much too cumbersome to be practical in the general run of problems- In the work described here a method of analyzing the harmonic generator is presented that involves a minimum of labor and at the same time has an accuracy entirely adequate for design purposes."
"The electric strain gauge can be used torecord accurately strains as low as 0.00001 inch, whether these are static or are os-cillatory at frequencies up to at least500 cycles per second, and the single-linetrace allows several measurements to berecorded simultaneously."
"The first circuit interrupters for a-c service were of the air-break type, followed very shortly by oil circuit breakers for general high-voltage service. Air ``Deion'' circuit breakers introduced in 1928 provided a new type of circuit interrupter for a-c service. Recent applications of these principles result in a line of De-ion air circuit breakers for 2,500-volt and 5,000- volt ratings suitable for use in a-c feeder circuits, motor starting, and general station auxiliary service."
"The demand for protection against fault currents up to 20,000 amperes at 250 volts d-c or 600 volts a-c has led to the development of air circuit breakers having the desirable features of the present line of enclosed air circuit breakers, but having higher interrupting capacity. Tests at 20,000 amperes on the circuit breaker of lower interrupting capacity showed that certain modifications were necessary. By increasing the gap between the contacts, by using contacts which resist welding, and by using a modified arc chamber and contact construction, it was found possible to make the breaker satisfactory for 20,000-ampere short circuits."
"This report presents characteristics of line-type arresters rated 20 to 73 kv, and is a continuation of the previous subcommittee report on \"Distribution Lightning Arrester Performance Data\" published in the AlEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 56, 1937, pages 576-577. Data have been presented relating to the impulse characteristics of insulation both as used on lines and in stations. Data on the rates of voltage rise and current magnitude to be encountered by protective devices in the field are being accumulated rather slowly. In order to have a basis for comparing arrester characteristics, a standard test was set up which indicates the arrester protective characteristic which falls in the range of service conditions. While the test was empirically set up, the characteristics obtained can be compared with the insulation to show the margin of protection afforded."
"Careful analysis of the characteristics of a power system has been found to be necessary before applying Petersen coils to a system which has been operating either with the neutral isolated or grounded. In these two companion papers on Petersen coils, accent has been placed on the analysis of system characteristics in order to determine whether or not the application of Petersen coils will be satisfactory. In this paper (part I) the general features of Petersen-coil application are considered, and the fundamentals of calculating coil characteristics are given. In the companion paper (part II) by F. Von Voigtlander, the methods of performing detailed calculations on system fault currents, coil ratings, and voltages are given in an illustrative example, together with field tests to check design computations and performance of the equipment."
"Fluorescence is a property of many substances. It consists of an emission of light under excitation by radiation whose wave length falls within a critical absorption band. When the emission persists for an appreciable period after the existing radiation has been extinguished, it is known as phosphorescence. The fundamental principles of fluorescence are described in detail."
"The device described in this paper, called a \"memnoscope,\" is a system for obtaining an oscillogram of random phenomena and events immediately preceding and following its occurrence. This system was developed and has been used to study arc-back phenomena m mercury-arc rectifiers. A description of the system is provided along with information on its construction and behavior. The memnoscope has proved its value in rectifier research. The opinion has been that arc-banks in rectifiers occurred only during transition time. Oscillograms obtained with the memnoscope show that arc-backs do occur at other times during the inverse cycle. Oscillograms have given information which has led to improved designs and to very substantial increases in the ratings of ignitrons."
"Two low-voltage a-c networks have been installed in Tennessee, using a radically different protective scheme. The customary master relays, phasing relays, and associated current transformers have been omitted from the network protectors using in their place a remote-control system of pilot wires operated from relays at the supply substation which protect the high-voltage cable feeders. In contrast with previous pilot-wire-protected network systems utilizing looped primary circuits with secondary transformer fuses1,2, these networks retain the radial supply and electrically operated secondary air circuit breakers of the more conventional systems. Previous experience has pointed to operating advantages of a remote control system provided a thoroughly reliable installation could be secured at a reasonable cost. The system described does not exceed the cost of conventional relay installations and it is felt that inherent hazards to reliability have been overcome."
"The total emission current in a vacuum tube can be expressed by the familiar space-charge equaion. This paper shows theoretically that the ratio of plate current to total current should be a function only of the ratio of grid to plate voltage, and introduces experimental data to show that the function can be represented by a single exponential term. The exponential function is combined with the space-charge equation to obtain an empirical equation for the positive-grid plate-current characteristic. A simple, experimental method of obtaining the constants in this equation is described."
"This entire program of field tests in connection with the development of this new high-speed interrupter has again demonstrated that no matter how skilled the designers may be, and with the most exhaustive research testing that is possible in factory testing laboratories, it is still necessary to look to actual high-capacity field tests for ultimate confirmation of circuit breaker designs and to bring out possible weaknesses which otherwise may escape disclosure. In this particular development there is no question but that the fundamental design of the interrupter and, in general, its details had been worked out on a sound basis. It is no reflection whatever on the designers that unforeseen weaknesses were disclosed in the tests; on the contrary, it is proof of the soundness of the development that comparatively minor changes based upon the information obtained from the tests were all that were necessary to enable the final design to go through what is believed to be the most severe series of tests yet made on a high-voltage circuit breaker and do so with perfect performance."
"A description of a new multibreak interrupter for fast clearing of short circuits applicable to high-voltage conventional tank-type oil circuit breakers. Breakers equipped with such interrupters were subjected to interrupting tests on large 138-kv and 230-kv systems during which short circuits as high as 2,000,000 kva were interrupted in less than five cycles. The results of those interrupting tests are shown and discussed."
"In the control and protective circuits of complex electrical systems it is frequently necessary to make intricate interconnections of relay contacts and switches. Examples of these circuits occur in automatic telephone exchanges, industrial motor-control equipment, and in almost any circuits designed to perform complex operations automatically. In this article a mathematical analysis of certain of the properties of such networks will be made. Particular attention will be given to the problem of network synthesis. Given certain characteristics, it is required to find a circuit incorporating these characteristics. The solution of this type of problem is not unique and methods of finding those particular circuits requiring the least number of relay contacts and switch blades will be studied. Methods will also be described for finding any number of circuits equivalent to a given circuit in all operating characteristics. It will be shown that several of the well-known theorems on impedance networks have roughly analogous theorems in relay circuits. Notable among these are the delta-wye (δ-Y) and star-mesh transformations, and the duality theorem."
"This paper formulates the essential properties of spherical waves in terms of familiar engineering concepts. The physical picture resulting from this point of view facilitates the solution of certain physical problems, notably those having to do with reflection, refraction, shielding and power absorption."
"Rapid strides have been made in the field of high-voltage electrical-discharge tubes. The most recent development has been the use of fluorescent phenomena. Fluorescent materials were first introduced as an integral part of the glass. The New York World's Fair has made a number of installations of Claude Zeon fluorescent tubes in which the fluorescent materials are placed as a coating on the inside walls of the tubing. Remarkable efficiencies and a full range of pastel shades make high-voltage fluorescent tubing a valuable tool for the use of the engineer, architectural designer, and advertiser."
"In this investigation seven air capacitors of different types of construction were studied. In the preliminary tests it was determined that the power factor was independent of the voltage stress and that it varied with the separation of the plates. The results of these studies led to the development of a method of determining the absolute power factor of an air capacitor. In addition, data are presented on the effects produced by the degree of polish of the electrode surfaces, by the width of the gap between the measuring electrode and its guard ring, and by the presence of water films on the plates."
"Fractional slot windings have certain well-known attributes which cause them to be quite generally used in synchronous-machine design. However, it is recognized that occasionally a winding will be produced which will develop harmonics in the air gap magnetomotive force that will lead to excessive losses, vibration, and noise. The published methods for computing the amplitudes of these harmonics are laborious to use and make a special case of every winding. It is the purpose of this paper to develop general formulas for computing the distribution factor and pitch factor of any magnetomotive force harmonic set-up by three-phase fractional slot windings of normal design. It is believed that these should permit in many cases a choice of winding arrangement such as either to eliminate or at least to minimize any undesirable harmonic so that its ill effects would be negligible. It is believed that the formulas are sufficiently simple to permit a complete tabulation of distribution and pitch factors over the normal range of slots per phase per pole now used in fractional slot windings."
"This is not a committee report, though perhaps it could be made to serve as such, because its genesis was a request of the engineer that a paper be written around the author's remark, ``The economic status of the engineer is largely a matter determined by each individual engineer according to his particular personal qualifications and the relations these bear to the work he does and to the personalities of those persons with whom and by whom he is employed.'' The study on which the paper is based shows conclusions which may be briefed as follows: Engineers, through suffering considerable loss of income and employment during the recent years of business depression, on the whole have fared much better than most classification groups, be they government, capital, profession, or labor. Preceding the depression, there was no lack of employment for engineers and their compensation for the most part was equitable in comparison with the pay for other types of service. The verdict of users of engineering service regarding the reasons why engineers who have not made satisfactory progress professionally or in their economic status is almost unanimous that such failures are due to deficiencies in personality, general culture, tact, industry, etc., rather than for lack of technical training. Graduation from college is prerequisite to success in engineering, but does not per se guarantee an engineer."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"This car is the result of a collective effort to modernize and improve the street car. Its development was preceded by extensive investigation directed toward determining the characteristics of conventional cars and the ways in which and extents to which these should be modified to approach the ideals of street-railway executives and of the riding public, respectively. Car and equipment designs were then produced. These represent the best technical approach to these ideals which could be reached within the economic limitations which exist. The car has been made more agile, has been given better appearance and better performance in many respects which affect the passenger. In spite of the addition of equipment not used in the older cars and of many refinements of design it is obtainable at a price which appears to meet the economic requirements. Over 500 of these new vehicles are already in use in seven cities of this country."
"This paper deals with the magnitude of currents in a secondary a-c network due to a line-to-line fault on the high-voltage feeder, and gives the analysis of the double-unbalance circuit resulting when a network protector fails to open during such a fault, and one of the protector fuses blows. Results of field tests made on an actual network are included."
"The present method of rating resistance-welding transformers varies with the different manufacturers, causing a certain amount of confusion among the users of this equipment. It is recommended that a standard method of rating, based on the thermally equivalent continuous output, be adopted and adhered to by the manufacturers. The general requirements of a welding transformer are discussed for the purpose of explaining the desirability of such a standard rating. Certain of the recommendations made herein are already embodied in the present AIEE Standards for resistance welding apparatus, and in the standards adopted by the Resistance Welder Manufacturers Association, but it is further recommended that these standards be altered to require additional name plate data. It is hoped that the transformer manufacturers and users will recognize the desirability of such standardization, and co-operate in its universal adoption."
"The paper reviews the historical development of joint use and the general results to date of studies of protective problems of lower and higher voltage joint use. The safety features are reviewed from the standpoint of (1) subscribers' premises, (2) employees, and (3) telephone plant. Characteristics of equipment of power and telephone plant as far as they relate to this problem are given. The various factors which determine magnitude and duration of the current and voltage in the telephone plant resulting from a contact with power conductors are discussed. Improved methods for obtaining safety under various conditions, where higher voltage joint use is found to be the best over-all solution, are described."
"Application of a recently developed method whereby it is possible virtually to see the voids in the layer structure of high voltage cable insulation shows most such insulation to be mechanically irregular. Lack of mechanical uniformity in the cable as manufactured is responsible for much of the ionization after the load cycle, and probably to a great extent for ionization breakdown. Application of the method and of supplementary methods should lead to better load cycle stability, improved installation practice, and ultimately to reduced insulation thicknesses."
"That the current-voltage characteristics of vacuum tubes obey an exponential law near cutoff is pointed out. The larger the coefficient appearing in the exponent, the steeper will be the current-voltage curve, and the better suited the tube will be for use in a slide-back voltmeter. The problem of obtaining high values of k is considered, and a simple theory of rectification by an exponential conductor is given. The error inherent in slide-back voltmeters of the ordinary type is discussed, and a correction factor applicable to sine waves is derived. The circuit of a slide-back vacuum-tube voltmeter which includes means for measuring the k of the tube is shown."
"A new 12-channel carrier telephone system for existing cables is described. This system, which incorporates a number of interesting departures from the previous carrier art, is now being manufactured in considerable quantities to meet increased traffic requirements."
"This paper describes the circuits, performance, and equipment features of the terminals of a new 12-channel carrier system for application to existing toll cables. The 12-channel group of terminal apparatus has been designed also to form a basic part of the terminals of other carrier systems now under development, such as the type-J system for open wire and the coaxial system."
"The introduction of electron tubes and power saturable reactors for the control of theater and mobile lighting has made possible the design and construction of lighting control equipment of greater efficiency and flexibility than was possible with the older methods of control. This paper describes some of the new equipment, systems, and practices. Several control systems for the pilot controller, the individual, and master units are described and illustrated. The basis for the intensity scale for the control units in the pilot controller is given."
"This paper describes the characteristics of new thyratron circuits which have been developed for the control of direct current motors. By means of these circuits it is possible to hold constant motor speed, constant armature voltage, or constant relative speed between two systems. It is also possible to hold constant either an alternating or direct current voltage which is dependent on the speed or position of the armature of a direct current motor."
"Although most commercial telegraph trunk circuits have been operated by printing telegraph methods for some years, Morse operation has been generally adhered to on way wires. Arrangements for operating way wires by printing telegraph have been developed, and are described. These include a polar simplex system, a neutral way-wire system, a code calling bell arrangement, and a multistation customers' printer circuit that provides secrecy by preventing the connection of more than one customer's printer to the line at a time. The paper also describes a new single-line repeater arranged to repeat polar as well as neutral signals, and a ``dotter'' for transmitting uniform test signals."
"A new type of lead-in structure for vacuum-, gas-, or oiltight chambers is described in which porcelain bushings are sealed to metal by means of a glass which serves as a bonding agency. The method of assembly is extremely simple, requiring no skilled workmen or elaborate equipment. Some of the features and some of the places where the seal is being applied are discussed."
"This paper describes a stabilized amplifier with an over-all amplification ratio that remains essentially constant in magnitude and phase for all changes in tube characteristics, line-voltage variations, and output load variations to be expected during normal operation. This stability is obtained by the introduction of two stabilizing circuits which act independently, yet are complementary when used together. During a period of eight weeks' use two such amplifiers with their associated indicating instruments maintained their original calibration within two-tenths per cent of full scale without readjustment."
"The triple single-phase phanotron rectifiers at the present time are built in capacities up to 40 kw at 230 volts and 75 kw at 550 volts. Their application has not been confined to elevator loads, one having been applied to general machine shop load including cranes, and another handling the entire building load elevators, ventilating fans, pumps, etc. The units are self-contained with all live parts enclosed and if desired the cubicle may be locked. The installation wiring is limited to bringing in the a-c supply and connecting the d-c load. Installation costs are thus held to a minimum. The operation of the seven rectifiers in service has to date been entirely successful. Additional rectifiers have been purchased by the original users after one year of use, indicating the suitability of the rectifier for hoisting service."
"The performance of a series circuit consisting of a resistor, a capacitor, an iron-cored inductor, and a sinusoidal impressed voltage is specified by the non linear differential equation dψ/dt + ri + L di/dt + 1/C∫i dt = E sin (t + θ) in which ψ is an odd function of i. Particular solutions of this equation, showing the effect of varying boundary conditions, are obtained by means of the differential analyzer. An approximate analytical method for determining the types of oscillations possible in this circuit is developed. Results obtained by this method are compared with differential analyzer solutions."
"1. This paper presents a general picture of the recovery-voltage characteristics of transmission systems obtained from the study of nine selected systems subjected to the varying factors encountered in practical operation. The a-c calculating-board method has been of major importance in carrying out this investigation. 2. The recovery-voltage characteristics of systems subjected to faults which are cleared without a line-sectionalizing operation are much less severe than that for the clearing of the last circuit breaker on a bus. This difference is so marked that advantage should be taken of it, in the design of certain pieces of apparatus. 3. The method of analysis and the data presented should be of value in the application of certain pieces of apparatus and in the preparation of test codes for specific devices. 4. This general analysis is of immediate interest in connection with the application of protector tubes, and operating experience with this device supports the analysis. Erosion of the protector tubes due to operation is such that the insulation-recovery characteristics are not changed at an impractical rate."
"The resonant type of nonlinear circuit containing a resistance, a condenser, and a saturable-core reactor is finding a number of applications in the various engineering fields,1 and an analytical treatment has here been developed to add to the understanding of the behavior of such circuits. Certain features of the superposition of a d-c magnetizing force on the reactor are discussed. A method of increasing the sensitivity of this d-c controlled circuit, with a mathematical analysis for the criteria of stability and amplification is given. Finally, a specific application of the circuits discussed to a sensitive and stable power controlling device is described."
"The rapid growth of rural electrification and the importance of maximum nomical expenditures has given impetus to the study of means to provide a satisfactory solution. The development of a rural network system with its sources of feed to supply this system is described. Selection of voltage rating for rural lines is often dependent upon operating conditions peculiar to the area served, and must be considered integrally with voltage regulation. Methods applicable for voltage regulation reference as to their application for rural line use. The economic application of regulating devices for voltage control of a rural load area is illustrated by a specific example and comparison with other means available. Methods used for obtaining a constant check of voltage conditions throughout a rural area are described and the results obtained by these means are given in a special case."
"In addition to being based on economic factors, the application of voltage regulating equipment to systems should take into account its characteristics and inherent limitations. These characteristics include operating speed, sensitivity, suitability for parallel operation and for frequent voltage-correcting action, how affected by the load power factor and by line constants, ability to compensate for supply-voltage variations, effect on wave form, etc. The majority of systems need both generator voltage regulators and suitable feeder regulators, if maximum ease, efficiency, and flexibility of system operation are desired. Proper choice and adjustment of the voltage responsive controlling elements of such regulating equipment will insure harmonious functioning of the regulators throughout the system, without hunting between regulators of different construction."
"The company with which the authors are connected undertook the design and construction of a device using a mechanical commutator which would transform direct current from one voltage to another. The two major commutator problems are current collection and commutation. It is well known that it is difficult to solve these problems especially if certain limits are exceeded. In the case of current collections, the speed of moving contacts cannot be indefinitely increased. In the case of commutation the chief limitation is in the voltage per bar. Accepting this requirement of design, it is necessary to devise circuits which will give very good commutation of current and voltage under all. conditions of service. Such circuits may be arranged to rectify or invert alternating or direct current or to transform direct current from one voltage to another. If rectification or inversion is attempted, two great difficulties are encountered. First, that of obtaining perfect synchronization of the commutator with the alternating potential and, second, the balancing of the current and voltages of the ac system against those of the dc system. These difficulties are absent in the case of transformation of direct current, using two commutators carried on one shaft and connected respectively to the primary and secondary of a suitable transformer. Synchronization is perfect and inherent and if the number of commutator bars per circuit is the same on the primary and secondary sides of the apparatus, a true balance of current and voltage is possible. The work described here was based on this type of apparatus."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Probably the most familiar use of electrical precipitation is in the removal of dust particles from air. Nevertheless, the method has a variety of other useful applications in industry, such as the recovery of valuable materials from waste gases, or the cleaning and preparation of gases for subsequent use. The evolution and application of electrical precipitation are reviewed briefly here."
"A leader in research and past president of the Institute makes several observations on the world of economics and the engineer's relation to it"
"THE annual summer convention held June 20–24 at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D. C., 54th such meeting to be held by the Institute, was the first to be held in the nation's capital city. For what is now District 2, this was the eighth summer convention, others having been held as follows : Philadelphia, Pa., 1884, 1894, 1900; Deer Park, Md., 1915; Cleveland, Ohio, 1916, 1932; White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., 1926."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"UNDER joint sponsorship of the AIEE committees on Sections and Student Branches, the annual conference of officers, delegates, and members was held Monday, June 20, 1938 at Washington, D. C., on the first day of the summer convention. Sessions were held in both morning and afternoon, and were attended by delegates from 58 of the Institute's 65 Sections, 6 of the 10 District secretaries, counselor delegates from 8 of the 9 Districts in which committees on student activities had been organized, and many other local and national officers of the Institute and members interested in Institute activities."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at the Mayflower Hotel, Washington, D. C., on Thursday, June 23, 1938, during the annual summer convention of the Institute."
"As A MEANS of stimulating a direct, informal interchange of thoughts on subjects of a somewhat specialized nature, five technical conferences were held during the AIEE 1938 summer convention. Brief reports of those conferences are presented here. These reports were prepared by the conference chairman, or from notes furnished by them."
"The Southern District meeting of the AIEE will be held in Miami, Fla., November 28–30, 1938. A program of several technical sessions, sports, trips, and entertainment is in the process of development and the location of the meeting will afford the attendants a few days of winter vacation. Headquarters will be in the Miami Biltmore Hotel at Coral Gables."
"Upon recommendation of the AIEE Sections committee, the Institute's board of directors has authorized a change in name of the Detroit-Ann Arbor Section to “Michigan Section,” but no change in Section territory will be involved."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or reject them entirely."
"Mr. C. J. Holslag's letter in the May 1938 issue of Electrical Engineering on “Preparation of Manuscripts” calls for comments particularly since he himself invites them."
"The article in the March 1938 issue of Electrical Engineering by Charles F. Dalziel concerning “Journals for electrical engineers” indicates that the task of keeping fully abreast of the advances which are reported in the literature of electrical engineering is a large one. It has occurred to me that Mr. Dalziel's article could serve as a starting point for some simplification of the task."
"I have read with much interest and pleasure “What is tensor analysis?” by Doctor Banesh Hoffmann and his article is the best elementary analysis of the subject which I have seen."
"We read with much interest the article in the May 1938 issue of Electrical Engineering entitled “Some Electronic Switching Circuits,” by C. C. Shumard. We should like very much to discuss one feature of this paper. We developed an impulse-voltage generator somewhat similar in principle to that described in figure 6 of Mr. Shumard's article. We arranged the circuit as indicated in figure 1 of this letter. By supporting the type-34 linearity tube on porcelain insulators, together with its filament and screen-biasing batteries, we were able to reduce the capacitance until we could get a voltage impulse lasting one microsecond. We were not able to reduce the time of the impulse below this minimum figure. Mr. Shumard states that with the assumed values of resistance and capacitance the minimum impulse interval should be &1/4; microsecond. We attempted to use a circuit like that described in figure 6a of his article, but found that the capacitance between ground and the anode side of the type-885 tube was too great to obtain the impulse duration mentioned. We should like very much to know if Mr. Shumard was successful in obtaining an impulse of &1/4; microfarad duration. If he obtained this low time interval, we should like to know what special provisions, if any, he made in the design of the sweep circuit."
"F. E. Johnson (A'13, F'31) has been appointed dean of the college of engineering of the University of Wisconsin, Madison. Since 1935 dean of the college of engineering of the University of Missouri, Dean Johnson was born May 27, 1885, at LeRoy, Mich., and received the degrees of bachelor of arts (1906) and electrical engineer (1909) at the University of Wisconsin. Following a period of employment in substation construction work in the western part of the United States and Canada, he was appointed instructor in electrical engineering at The Rice Institute, Houston, Texas, in 1912. Dean Johnson was appointed instructor in electrical engineering at the University of Kansas in 1915, and became successively assistant professor, associate professor, and professor of electrical engineering. In 1928 he was appointed head of the department of electrical engineering; however, he resigned in the same year to become head of the department of electrical engineering at Iowa State College, Ames. A director of the Institute, Dean Johnson has served during the year just ending as a member of the Institute's committee on education, electrical machinery, and membership; and as chairman of the committee on student branches. He is Institute representative on the Engineers' Council for Professional Development."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on July 21, 1938, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Society Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"The performance of a series circuit consisting of a resistor, a capacitor, an iron-cored inductor, and a sinusoidal impressed voltage is specified by the non linear differential equation"
"THE SUCCESSFUL operation of an are-interrupting device requires that the insulation recovery-voltage characteristics of the device be higher than the recovery-voltage characteristics of the system. A broad understanding of the recovery-voltage problem from the application point of view, requires a knowledge of the effects caused by the range of systems, by the different types of faults and the different fault conditions encountered in practice. With this object in mind an investigation was undertaken to provide a general picture of the recovery-voltage characteristics of transmission systems."
"THE APPLICATION of “ferroresonant” circuits to engineering problems has become increasingly important from both theoretical and practical considerations. While much progress has been made in the general study of ferroresonance, treatment is lacking in an accurate description of, perhaps, the most interesting part of the phenomena, namely, the so-called critical points at which the current suddenly changes in value. From a practical viewpoint, it is this characteristic property that makes ferroresonant circuits useful as sensitive elements in relay and control apparatus. Accordingly, there is a definite need for simple quantitative information that completely predetermines the behavior of the circuit under critical conditions and specifies the required circuit parameters in terms of known quantities."
"IN CASE of unbalanced faults on power systems, the voltage on the unfaulted phase or phases may often reach very high values. There may be an overvoltage caused by the short circuit itself and a further overvoltage caused by the clearing of the fault. In the present paper only the first type will be discussed. These unfaulted phase overvoltages may vary widely with the type of fault, the system constants and arrangement, and the kinds of synchronous machines affected. However, in faults not involving ground the presence of overvoltages depends on the fact that the synchronous machines supplying the fault current are not electrically symmetric-rotor machines. Thus, these overvoltages may be largely eliminated or reduced by a properly designed amortisseur winding. Even in case of overvoltages caused by faults involving ground there is a considerable reduction with such an amortisseur winding."
"The resonant type of nonlinear circuit containing a resistance, a condenser, and a saturable-core reactor is finding a number of applications in the various engineering fields,1 and an analytical treatment has here been developed to add to the understanding of the behavior of such circuits. Certain features of the superposition of a d-c magnetizing force on the reactor are discussed. A method of increasing the sensitivity of this d-c controlled circuit, with a mathematical analysis for the criteria of stability and amplification is given. Finally, a specific application of the circuits discussed to a sensitive and stable power controlling device is described."
"ON THIS and the following 15 pages appear discussions submitted for publication, and approved by the technical committees, on previously published papers presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24–28, 1938. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by Louis A. Pipes published on pages 1177–90 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (September 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the basic sciences session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 26, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by M. B. Reed published on pages 74–7 of this volume (February section), and presented for oral discussion at the basic sciences session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 26, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by F. J. Vogel published on pages 34–6 of this volume (January section), and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion and authors' closures of a paper by H. B. Dwight and L. S. Dzung published on pages 1368–71 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (November 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by J. B. Whitehead and T. B. Jones published on pages 1492–1501 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (December 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the cables and research session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by S. J. Rosch published on pages 155–67 of this volume (March section), and presented for oral discussion at the cables and research session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by K. S. Wyatt, D. L. Smart, and J. M. Reynar published on pages 141–54 of this volume (March section) and presented for oral discussion at the cables and research session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Matters important to every member of the profession were discussed by President Parker in his recent Pacific — Coast — convention address, presented here in full"
"Electrifying the railways on the great bridge across San Francisco Bay presented some unusual problems, and the completed system has many interesting features"
"Tensor analysis continues to interest — and to perplex — many electrical engineers. In several previous articles and papers, including a series in the first three issues of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for 1938, efforts have been made to explain tensor methods and their great power and usefulness. In a hopeful effort to broaden the general understanding of the fundamentals of tensor analysis and their relation to more commonly used mathematical methods, this further discussion of the subject is published. In trying to get as close as possible to fundamentals the author of this article tells the story of tensors, figuratively, in words of one syllable, and suggests a course of study to be used as a stepping stone to a working knowledge of tensor analysis."
"AT A CONFERENCE on sound and vibration measurement held during the 1938 AIEE winter convention, A. P. Fugill (A'24, M'30), The Detroit Edison Company, Detroit, Mich., described a series of investigations of noise measurement conducted by that company. The company now has issued a specification describing standard methods of power-transformer noise measurement; the instructions are based upon American Standards Association tentative standards Z24.1 (Acoustical Terminology, 1936), Z24.2 (Noise Measurement, 1936), Z24.3 (Sound Level Meters, 1936), and the proposed AIEE Test Code for Apparatus Noise Measurement, which was issued in 1937. Transformer purchase specifications of the company now include a specification of tolerable noise level, and the company's specification is used as a basis for testing the units after delivery."
"ESSENTIAL transmission properties of spherical waves are formulated in terms of familiar engineering concepts in this paper. Such a formulation places the subject of spherical waves within bounds of transmissionline theory, thus co-ordinating two apparently distinct subjects; moreover, this plan facilitates the solution of some shielding problems and emphasizes the physical aspects of shielding. The general formulas for shielding in terms of impedances for spherical waves are derived."
"Science of a few centuries ago, far from positivistic, nevertheless was dogmatic, and was based upon superstition, tradition, and mysticism. But by the end of the Middle Ages men were losing their compliant faith in tradition, and the scientist turned to material observation and experimentation for the explanation of natural phenomena. The consequent search for immutable laws again introduced in science an element of dogma, which remained effective until about the end of the 19th century. During the present era, scientific thought seems to be turning away from the realistic approach, because the shattering of seemingly well-established laws has made men doubt their own senses. The author of this article stands in the middle of this era, looks at science in retrospect and in prospect, advances some provocative riddles, but lets the reader contrive to find his own answers."
"SETTING a new all-time high mark for registration at a Pacific Coast convention, the 26th AIEE Pacific Coast convention, held August 9–12, inclusive, at the Multnomah Hotel in Portland, Ore., came to the close of its activities with a total verified registered attendance of 454. An analysis of this attendance, and a comparison with preceding conventions back through 1920, are given in the accompanying tabulations. The principal features in which this year's convention differed from those of earlier years were the selection of convention dates nearly a month earlier than those that have prevailed for several years, and the provision of a technical program having a greater than usual number of sessions and technical papers. One notable characteristic was the relatively large number of family groups that were in attendance as a part of a vacation trip. Another feature, initiated last year at Spokane and repeated this year because of its popularity, was the holding of a session on communication jointly with the Institute of Radio Engineers, who held their convention concurrently in the same hotel."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., August 2, 1938."
"As already announced in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, arrangements are being made for the AIEE Southern District meeting, which will be held in Miami, Fla., November 28–30, 1938. Headquarters will be in the Miami Biltmore Hotel at Coral Gables. Excellent facilities are available for sports-golf, tennis, swimming, and fishing and the location of the meeting will afford attendants a few days of winter vacation."
"As announced in the report of the AIEE board of directors' meeting published elsewhere in this issue, the board has authorized the consolidation of the committees on general power applications, applications to iron and steel production, and applications to mining work into one committee to be known as the AIEE committee on industrial power applications."
"In the past the AIEE has sponsored various research projects by recommending to The Engineering Foundation that in the judgment of the Institute a given project was worthy of support. The Institute, however, did not provide any financial support."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or reject them entirely."
"In the March issue of Electrical Engineering (pages 110–13) C. F. Dalziel presents an analysis to facilitate, for an individual or an institution, the selection of the necessary journals dealing with electrical engineering. This analysis is based on the number of references given to these journals in other technical periodicals. The writer takes the liberty to make two objections: against the scope, and against the method of analysis. He wishes to emphasize that his deductions should not be understood as a mere criticism, but as an attempt to clarify the problem and to show a way for another solution."
"The timely article on “The role of the engineering library,” by Harrison W. Craver, published in the July issue of Electrical Engineering (pages 291–4) is interesting and challenging to both educators and engineers in industry."
"Because of the increasing demand for full utilization of investment by public utilities, the overloading of transformers on a temperature basis is daily becoming a more fundamental problem in engineering. Several methods have been presented in engineering literature by which overloads may be calculated for specified conditions of winding temperature, load cycle, and ambient temperature. The limiting winding temperature can be determined quite definitely from the known relation between temperature and life of insulation, and the load cycle predicted from previous load readings. The major difficulty lies in the determination of an ambient temperature on which to base the calculations of overload capacity."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. If the applicant has applied for direct admission to a grade higher than Associate, the grade follows immediately after the name. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the national secretary before September 30, 1938, or November 30, 1938, if the applicant resides outside of the United States or Canada."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Society Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"THE two criteria of the performance of any system for the delivery of electric energy are, first, its dependability as measured by continuity of service, and second, the quality of the service as measured primarily by the ability of the system to keep the deviations from normal voltage within acceptable limits. The purpose of this paper is to consider the influence of the second of these two factors, namely voltage regulation, on the design and operation of the system."
"THE WINDER is one of the more important machines in the paper industry. In general, every paper machine has a winder intimately associated with it and there are many others used in the finishing room."
"APPLICATION engineers frequently encounter the problem of choosing between the several available methods employed to stop a squirrel-cage induction motor quickly. To the best of the writer's knowledge, little has been done to present data in such a way as to make it useful to draw direct comparisons between these schemes, discuss the advantages of each, and aid in the choice of the method best suited to a particular application. Such is the purpose of this paper."
"WHILE a paper on this subject before an AIEE meeting seems rather superfluous, perhaps a review of some of the facts to be considered in the application of capacitors to industrial loads will bring out a discussion that will be beneficial to all."
"THE multiple stroke has been defined as a succession of discharges in substantially the same path, either between clouds or between cloud and ground. Multiple strokes are of considerable interest to the engineer, because of the possible effects of successive application of impulses to equipment with a very small cooling or resting period interposed. The author has undertaken studies of natural lightning in three different locations with three somewhat different methods, one of the objects being in each case the determination of characteristics of multiple strokes. One of these investigations is a detailed study of lightning strokes to the Empire State Building in New York, another in Pittsfield, Mass., employs photographic methods making use of an observatory erected for the especial purpose of studying lightning, and the third is an investigation of multiple strokes to transmission lines as measured by the use of the especially designed crater lamp oscillograph installed and operated in co-operation with the American Gas and Electric Company at Roanoke, Va."
"THE PROCESS of weaving consists of interlacing spun threads at right angles on a loom, figure 1. In the woven material thus formed, of which cotton cloth is a very common example, the lengthwise threads are designated as the “warp” and the crosswise or filling threads are designated as the “weft,” figure 2."
"THE USE of protector tubes (previously referred to as expulsion protective tubes or “deion” gaps) during the past five years or so as devices for protecting transmission lines and equipment against lightning has gained considerable headway, particularly in the protection of high-voltage transmission lines. A number of applications have been made in the medium voltage transmission field, a few in the low-voltage field, and a number of scattered installations for protection of equipment and cables."
"SOME 13 years ago, Doctor L. Dreyfus1 published a paper on insulation design of transformers. In this paper, he assumed that electrical breakdown adjacent to square edges was a function of the stress and the distance over which this stress acted; in other words, that it was a function of the voltage gradient along a line of force for some indeterminate distance. By means of conformal representation, he was able to determine the field shape at the corners of structures representative of those in transformers. He could then evaluate the strength of these various structures. His paper was principally mathematical, and it is the purpose of this paper to call attention to his work, to restate some of his assumptions and the conclusions that he reached, and to furnish some experimental data."
"WITH the development of systems of distribution supplying light, heat, and power from common mains, the problem of maintaining proper voltage at consumers' services has become extremely difficult. The efforts of distribution engineers in solving system voltage regulation problems have extended in many directions. To facilitate these solutions, a need has been felt by many distribution engineers for some means of clarifying the approach to the voltage-regulation problem. The systematic voltage survey, by presenting a comprehensive view of service voltage conditions, has been found, by utilities which make such surveys periodically, to serve this purpose effectively. This paper presents a procedure for conducting systematic voltage surveys, based on the practice of various electric utilities, and a brief discussion of the application of voltage-survey data."
"The rapid growth of rural electrification and the importance of maximum service continuity commensurate with economical expenditures has given impetus to the study of means to provide a satisfactory solution. The development of a rural network system with its sources of feed to supply this system is described. Selection of voltage rating for rural lines is often dependent upon operating conditions peculiar to the area served, and must be considered integrally with voltage regulation. Methods applicable for voltage regulation and control are reviewed with particular reference as to their application for rural line use. The economic application of regulating devices for voltage control of a rural load area is illustrated by a specific example and comparison with other means available. Methods used for obtaining a constant check of voltage conditions throughout a rural area are described and the results obtained by these means are given in a special case."
"In addition to being based on economic factors, the application of voltage-regulating equipment to systems should take into account its characteristics and inherent limitations. These characteristics include operating speed, sensitivity, suitability for parallel operation and for frequent voltage-correcting action, how affected by the load power factor and by line constants, ability to compensate for supply-voltage variations, effect on wave form, etc. The majority of systems need both generator voltage regulators and suitable feeder regulators, if maximum ease, efficiency, and flexibility of system operation are desired. Proper choice and adjustment of the voltage-responsive controlling elements of such regulating equipment will insure harmonious functioning of the regulators throughout the system, without hunting between regulators of different construction."
"THE COMPANY with which the authors are connected undertook the design and construction of a device using a mechanical commutator which would transform direct current from one voltage to another."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Electricity and weather conditions are associated in two ways: electrical apparatus and structures are subject to damage by storms; and communication by telegraph, telephone, teletype, and radio is essential for weather forecasting. How the United States Weather Bureau has made increasing use of the information gathered from many stations for scientific forecasting, particularly for special services such as that for airways, is described in this article."
"Maladjustment brought about primarily by too speedy reform is cited by this noted economist as one of the principal causes of the present long-range trend toward increased unemployment. Speaking of various industries, he expresses the belief that unemployment persisted in certain industries during the recovery period ending in 1937 because those industries had not made sufficient technological advance."
"A MATHEMATICAL analysis of the induction machine which is applicable to the solution of a variety of transient and steady-state problems is presented in this paper. The method was developed particularly to evaluate the performance of induction motors when driving pulsating loads such as compressors."
"Late in 1937 a large construction project was completed which added 16 telephone circuits to the transcontinental layout, and the work was so planned that 48 additional circuits can be obtained by the addition of equipment but without stringing additional wire. A brief description of some features of this project and the general development of the transcontinental telephone routes since the first one was opened for service in 1915 is given in this article. Although most of the discussion relates to transcontinental lines, the methods described are generally applicable to other similar situations."
"Doctor Doherty's career is a striking refutation of the old adage that “those who can, do; those who can't, teach.” For many years his name has been identified with the best among those who “do” in engineering. At the same time he has had an unwavering interest in engineering education, and through his many contributions has risen to a position of prominence in that profession."
"TO CARRY international standardization agreements another step forward, 400 delegates from 22 countries met at Torquay, England, June 22–July 1 for the ninth plenary meeting of the International Electrotechnical Commission; 22 delegates from the United States attended the nine-day meeting."
"Plans for the AIEE Southern District meeting, to be held in Miami, Fla., November 28–30, 1938, now are practically complete. The program includes many papers of interest to the membership of the Institute, and the exceptional sport and recreational facilities available in Miami will provide abundant amusement for the guests and their families."
"FOLLOWING recent discussions in the standards and electrical machinery committees of the AIEE, the chairman of the latter committee has appointed a subcommittee, of which F. E. Harrell is chairman, to study the general questions of temperature limits and rating of small power apparatus. This committee has decided to sponsor a symposium on this subject which is proposed for the forthcoming winter convention in January 1939. Tentative arrangements have been made for the inclusion of this symposium on the program, subject of course to the approval of the papers submitted, with a full opportunity for discussion."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"FOR THE third successive year the attention of chemists meeting in national assembly has been directed toward the problems of electrical insulation. In each instance the discussion of dielectric phenomena has been held under the joint auspices of the American Chemical Society and the subcommittee on chemistry of the committee on insulation of the National Research Council, division of industrial and engineering research. The 1938 conference was held at Milwaukee, Wis., September 8, most important business of which was a symposium under the chairmanship of Doctor F. L. Miller, of the Esso Laboratories, Standard Oil Development Company, Linden, N. J. This report has been made available to readers of Electrical Engineering through the courtesy of Doctor F. M. Clark (A'24), General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass."
"The eleventh annual meeting of the conference on electrical insulation of the division of engineering and industrial research, National Research Council, will be held in Pittsburgh, Pa., November 3–4, 1938, where the conference will be the guests of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, the Gulf Research and Development Company, and the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research. Features of the meeting will comprise three technical sessions, a varied program of visits to many plants of scientific and industrial interest in the neighborhood, and the annual dinner of the conference."
"Electricity will play a dominant role in the 1939 expositions of both East and West — the New York World's Fair to be held in New York City, and the Golden Gate International Exposition to be held in San Francisco, Calif. Not only will electricity be featured in special exhibit buildings at both fairs, but also it will play an almost indispensable part in staging the expositions and in lighting them. Special distribution systems are being constructed to supply the electric energy needed."
"To enable members and subscribers to receive a complete file of the technical papers and related discussions not published in the Transactions section of Electrical Engineering under the present publication policy during 1938, a special “Transactions Supplement” will be published in December, as announced in a special brochure recently mailed to all AIEE members. This supplement together with the 12 issues of Electrical Engineering will provide all the technical papers and discussions published by the Institute during the year."
"The issuance of a cumulative index to its technical papers for the 17-year period, 1922–38, currently is under consideration by the Institute, as announced in a special brochure recently mailed to all AIEE members. Such a volume would complete the series of indexes covering Institute papers from 1884 to date, but will be issued only if there is sufficient demand for it. As an added inducement, it is planned that a copy of the previous index volume, covering the years 1911–21, will be given free of charge to those ordering copies of the new index, until the present stock is exhausted."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or reject them entirely."
"No entirely adequate and consistent notation for impedances in symmetrical components has been presented in the books on symmetrical components nor has such a notation come into general use. In particular, the symbols Z0, Z1, Z2 have been used with two entirely different meanings (as described in this letter) which cannot but lead to confusion. I advocate the adoption of the simple, logical, and easily remembered double-subscript notation employed in the following equations:"
"Doctor Jewett's discussion of “The Engineer and Trends in Economic Thought” is most interesting; especially his characterization of the claims that the revival of ancient fallacies are scientific experiments. It would be just as legitimate and logical to attempt to disprove the rule of three, under the pretense of scientific experimentation, as to attempt to justify some of the present day economic and even engineering delusions under the same pretense."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on September 15, 1938, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Society Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Transmitters and receivers for use at subscribers' telephone stations have been designed which not only materially improve transmission but also simplify manufacture and facilitate maintenance. This paper discusses these improvements and describes some of the new design technique employed in their development."
"MUCH has been done in applying thyratrons to motors.1–4 This paper is restricted to cases where the speed of the motor is measured by an electric tachometer whose output is used to control the motor input. Since this control is made fast by the use of thyratrons, it is possible to hold the speed of the motor constant under difficult conditions or to vary it rapidly in exact accordance with requirements. Three applications of control of this general type are described together with the methods used. The first application is to a null-type high-speed recorder, the second to a high-speed controller, and the third to a motor generator set held in synchronism with a source of frequency normally constant and at low power level."
"This paper outlines laboratory and field tests with a surge generator and cathode-ray oscillograph which led to the co-ordination of insulation and lightning-arrester performance in substations on the 22-kv subtransmission system of the Duquesne Light Company."
"IN TWO previous papers1,2 we have described some of the results of life-test studies of miniature cable specimens started in 1934. One of the general observations resulting from a large number of tests is that all specimens made with high-density paper and standard-viscosity oil or specimens made with standard-density paper and high-viscosity oil have had short life at 30 kv whereas many specimens made with standard viscosity impregnant but otherwise identical have had very long life under the same conditions."
"A GROUP of 132-kv and 66-kv transmission systems form a loop about 300 miles in circumference and connect many important generating stations and a number of load points in the western part of Pennsylvania and the eastern portion of Ohio."
"THE IMPORTANCE of maintaining the insulation on all parts of an electric system in good operating condition is fundamental with any power company today, particularly on such equipment as high- and medium-voltage bushings and transformers. The maintenance of such insulation requires some sort of periodic test to determine its condition, an exact location of faults, and requirements for reconditioning or replacing faulty parts."
"This paper describes a new type of supervisory control system which was developed to reduce the selection time in large, multistation applications. The principles are based on the use of short and long electrical pulses and circuit designs not requiring a check-back code for assuring accuracy. It is equally applicable to a two-wire telephone line or a carrier-current channel. The design is quite flexible, permitting many alterations and additions to satisfy local conditions peculiar to its problems. The theory behind the elimination of the check or selection is explained."
"The new telephone instruments now being introduced by the Bell System result in an outstanding improvement in transmission performance in service. The evidence for this, as obtained by comprehensive laboratory and field tests, is presented here, together with a discussion of the factors responsible for this superior performance and of the consideration involved in its appraisal."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Industry must train men to fill technical and administrative positions in a business world that becomes increasingly complex with economic, social, and legal aspects. Engineering graduates have shown definite advantages over nonengineering graduates for all types of positions; industry's objective is to get the best possible men and to train them with diligence."
"Courageously facing a startling and controversial subject, a prominent engineer and educator here voices some questions and makes some suggestions that merit consideration. Brief discussions are invited"
"TO EXHIBIT the great range of problems that may be solved with comparative ease by graphical means, even though they may be very difficult to solve analytically, is the object of this paper.∗ The most familiar examples of field plotting are used for solving the Laplace equation δ2v/δx2 − δ2v/δy2 = 0, solutions of which are known as “harmonic” functions. This equation, as well as its three-dimensional analogue, has a wide range of application, and receives more comprehensive treatment than does any other type of equation."
"Many different types of cooking utensils and electric range surface units are available for domestic use. The heat-transfer efficiencies of various combinations of utensils and units are different, as shown in this article, and from the standpoint of over-all efficiency of heat transfer, differences as great as 24 per cent have been found."
"STANDARD air capacitors are used with measuring equipment of high sensitivity for comparison with test capacitors in investigations such as the study of dielectric materials; therefore the absolute power factor of the standard should be known. In the investigation reported in this paper,∗ seven air capacitors of different types of construction were studied. A method of determining the absolute power factor of an air capacitor was developed, and data were obtained on the effects produced by the degree of polish of the electrode surfaces, by the width of gap between the measuring electrode and its guard ring, and by the presence of water films on the plates."
"IN THE solution of a-c network problems there are two common methods of attack. In one the system is reduced to its equivalent impedances, and in the other to its equivalent admittances. The electrical quantities of a series circuit are determined most simply by finding first the impedances of the parts that are in series, then solving for the common voltage (if it is not given) and for the voltage drops. A multiple circuit is solved most simply by expressing it in terms of its admittances, then solving for the currents in the branches. If combinations of the two types of circuits are involved, the solution is simplified by using either all impedances or all admittances."
"A new use for electricity rapidly is developing in the field of sterilization through controlled applications of radiation in limited portions of the ultraviolet spectrum. Such radiation has been known sketchily for its abiotic properties, but a practical knowledge leading to commercial applications has evolved only recently from careful segregation of different wave lengths, the elimination of certain very short-wave radiations that seem undesirable, and the perfection of a means of measuring such radiation quantitatively. The sterilization of foods and food containers, various utensils, and articles subject to mold or fungi growths, and the reduction of air-borne bacteria seem destined to characterize this new tool in the form of commercial tubular lamps as one of man's strongest instruments in combating disease and reducing spoilage losses."
"THIS paper∗ reviews and analyzes the steady-state stability characteristics of turbine generators taking the effects of saturation into account. The need for such an analysis has become particularly important with the recent trend toward 3,600-rpm units of large capacity. With the development of such units, the designer is forced in the direction of reducing the weight of the rotor per kilovolt-ampere in order to keep the length and diameter within reasonable limits. However, the reduction in weight of the rotor tends to reduce the short-circuit ratio, which has long been used as a measure of the stability characteristics. The determination of the stability characteristics which may reasonably be expected from a machine, and the validity of short-circuit ratio as a criterion for steady-state stability were considered important enough to justify an analysis. Although the paper deals primarily with the cylindrical-rotor type of generator, the results also apply in general to the salient-pole type."
"IN CONTROL and protective circuits of complex electriC systems intricate interconnections of relay contacts and switches frequently are necessary. Examples of such circuits may be found in automatic telephone exchanges, industrial motor-control equipment, and in almost any circuits designed to perform complex operations automatically. In this paper∗ some of the properties of such networks are analyzed mathematically, and particular attention is given to network synthesis. If the circuit characteristics are given and the circuit incorporating those characteristics is to be found, the solution is not unique, and methods of finding those particular circuits having the minimum number of relay contacts and switch blades are described. Methods for finding any number of circuits equivalent in all operating characteristics to a given circuit also are outlined."
"FLORIDA offers extraordinary vacation possibilities to all who plan to attend the Southern District meeting of the AIEE in Miami, November 28–30, 1938. The Miami Biltmore Hotel has been chosen as head-quarters because it offers an ideal combination of meeting facilities and recreational advantages, which permits relaxation between business sessions. For those who travel by car, many points of historical and scenic interest will be available en route. For those who come direct by rail, both organized side trips and individual trips by special parties will be available. Miami and Florida have many things that will both interest and amuse visitors."
"FOR the nomination of national officers to be voted upon in the spring of 1939, the AIEE national nominating committee will meet during the winter convention, January 23–27, 1939. The officers to be elected are: a president, a national treasurer, three directors, and five vice-presidents, one from each of the even-numbered geographical Districts. Fellows only are eligible for the office of president, and Members and Fellows for the offices of vice-president, director, and national treasurer."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A complete list of the Institute's officers and committees for the year 1938–39 was published in the September 1938 issue of Electrical Engineering, pages 397–99, with the exception of the technical committees on industrial power applications, transportation, and power generation. Announcement of the membership of these committees was made recently, and is presented here. Future AIEE Meetings Southern District Meeting Miami, Fla., November 28–30, 1938"
"Plans for the AIEE 1939 combined summer and Pacific Coast convention to be held in San Francisco, Calif., June 23–29, are progressing actively under the leadership of S. J. Lisberger, general convention chairman, according to J. S. Moulton, publicity subcommittee chairman. The convention committee and its several subcommittees are hard at work on their plans and give assurance of an outstanding convention."
"As announced in the October issue and in a special brochure mailed to all AIEE members, a special Transactions “Supplement” will be published by the Institute in December. To eliminate a point of confusion that has arisen, this “Supplement” is not a supplement to the annual Transactions volume, but is being published for the benefit of those who have not subscribed to the Transactions. Under the present publication policy, some of the Institute's technical papers and discussions are not published in the Transactions section of Electrical Engineering, but appear only in the bound Transactions volume; the “Supplement” is a reprint of these papers and discussions. Thus, a member who did not subscribe to the 1938 Transactions still can obtain all the technical material published by the Institute during the year by “supplementing” the material he received month by month in the Transactions section of Electrical Engineering with a copy of the Transactions “Supplement.”"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"As announced in the October issue and in a special brochure mailed to all AIEE members, the issuance of a cumulative index to AIEE technical papers published during the 17-year period, 1922–38, is under consideration. Such a volume would complete the series of indexes covering Institute papers from 1884 to date, but will be issued only if there is sufficient demand for it. Orders are coming in daily, and indications are that enough will be received ultimately to enable the index to be published at an acceptable price. Since the number to be printed, and consequently the price, will be determined by the number of orders received, it is doubly important that orders be placed promptly."
"An AEC staff analysis of the history and present status of the monopoly inquiry which may provide a basis for new Federal legislation on wages, prices, patents, and other fundamental economic industrial questions"
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technical papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. Electrical Engineering will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or reject them entirely."
"The list of references given at the end of the paper by P. H. Odessey and E. Weber on resonance with iron-cored inductances [EE, Trans. Sect., Aug. '38, p. 444] contains no articles in the English language earlier than 1931. However, this phenomenon was in dependently observed, and described by the writer and C. W. Baker in 1911 in the article “Double Voltages in Circuits having Capacity and Inductance,” in The Electric Journal, 1911, volume 8, page 1102. At that time, as in several later instances, the phenomenon was dangerous and harmful to apparatus on which it occurred. When a small transformer was connected between ground and the terminals of generators, for testing purposes, an unexpectedly high voltage appeared in an erratic manner, which punctured the generator insulation. Sometimes a high voltage and sometimes a low one was obtained, depending on the part of the cycle at which the switch was closed."
"Albert Einstein in his new book (“The Evolution of Physics,” by Albert Einstein and L. Infeld, New York, 1938, Simon and Schuster, page 226) says, “Modern physics is simpler than the old physics and seems, therefore, more difficult and intricate.” That is, while the reasoning becomes simpler the necessary groundwork becomes more extensive. So it is with the tensor, for its power lies in the simplification it affords. Like every progressive innovation in symbolic mathematics, it involves a condensation of reasoning. But the obscurity of the symbolism tends to increase in proportion to the gain in compactness. The brevity of the tensor, its best quality, is the greatest source of difficulty for the student. We are dealing here with one of those abstract physico-mathematical concepts which are usually well understood only after long acquaintanceship and patient application. A great many of us are trying vainly to cover too much ground in a single step."
"T. C. Lennox and E. V. De Blieux in a very interesting paper “A D-C Transformer,” published in the Transactions section of the September 1938 issue of Electrical Engineering on pages 554 to 558, describe a device using a mechanical commutator in conjunction with stationary transformers to transform direct current from one voltage to another."
"Referring to the letter to the editor by H. A. Brown and P. W. Ryburn, published on page 36 of the August 1938 issue of Electrical Engineering and to the last paragraph of my article “Some electronic switching circuits” on page 211 in the May 1938 issue, I would like to point out that this paragraph states that the minimum RiCs product rather than the minimum impulse interval would be 0.25 microsecond. There is considerable difference in meaning because the time constant, as Brown and Ryburn are aware, gives the time only for the interval during which the voltage across the condenser Cs has dropped to about 37 per cent of its peak value. The impulsing interval, while dependent on the time constant, will be much greater since the voltage must drop approximately exponentially below the deionizing potential of the type-885 tube before the 885 will stop conducting and the cycle can be repeated."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on October 20, 1938, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Society Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"THE co-ordination of telephone and power systems has been studied for about 15 years under the auspices of the Joint Subcommittee on Development and Research of the Edison Electric Institute and the Bell Telephone System. Until 1935 the noise frequency studies on distribution systems related chiefly to the types of systems employed in urban and suburban areas.1 Between 1935 and 1937, the work was extended to include rural power and telephone systems, which differ in several respects from the systems employed in urban areas. Measurements of power circuit influence and telephone circuit noise were made on a number of representative rural systems in Nebraska, Iowa, Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, and Virginia, with the co-operation of the operating companies. These tests were supplemented by a theoretical analysis of the problem."
"IN THE very early days of the development of a-c transformers, various methods were tried to produce cores which would have the necessary characteristics of low loss, low magnetizing current, and suitable mechanical arrangements. It was very soon found that the most practical form of raw material was thin iron or iron-alloy sheet which could be obtained with relatively low hysteresis loss, and could be cut and assembled so as to give relatively low eddy-current loss and magnetizing current."
"Experience recorded in this paper with the method of measuring the radio influence factor of electrical apparatus recommended by the Joint Co-ordination Committee on Radio Reception of Edison Electric Institute, National Electrical Manufacturers Association, and Radio Manufacturers Association establishes its practicability and adequacy. This method fulfills the essential feature of all working standards in that the results are reproducible by quantitative measurements."
"PAPER slitters are used to trim the edges of paper webs so that a paper roll with even sides can be wound from an unevenly wound roll. When the paper has printed designs on it, the slitting must be done at a definite distance from the printed design. The slitter knives are stationary as shown in figure 1. In order to slit the paper at the same position relative to the design when the position of the paper relative to the shaft of the unwinding roll is varying, it becomes necessary to adjust the position of the unwinding roll transversely."
"Static constant-current circuits have been constructed by connecting an iron-core reactor, with predetermined characteristics, in parallel with a capacitor of a specified size such that the resultant input current is independent of line voltage. This parallel circuit is connected in series with the element through which the current is to be regulated. The current will remain essentially constant for large variations in line voltage; large variations in load impedance; or a variation in both quantities simultaneously as long as the variation in voltage across the parallel circuit does not exceed certain limits. This type of circuit is useful for applications where a constant heating independent of line voltage is desired; for series lighting circuits; and vacuum-tube filament circuits."
"HARMONIC generators such as used in radio transmitters are usually designed and adjusted on the basis of experience because the only analysis of their performance that has been available is a laborious point-by-point method of attack which is much too cumbersome to be practical in the general run of problems. In the present paper a new method of analyzing the harmonic generator is presented that involves a minimum of labor and at the same time has an accuracy entirely adequate for design purposes."
"MANY new developments have grown out of the vibration recorder1 originally described before the AIEE in 1926. One of the first of these developments resulted in apparatus for recording transient pressures electrically.4 This has been used to measure transient pressures in switchgear apparatus, transformers, water wheels, steam turbines, gasoline engines, refrigerators, and in other places. Another is the electric gauge8,18 which has many applications. It is used for the most accurate gauging of production parts in machine shops and inspection rooms, also it is widely used in steel mills for continuous gauging of strips as they are being rolled, for controlling their thickness, for measuring the tension in the strip19 and the pressure applied to the mill rolls. Another application is the measurement of the thickness of paint, enamel, or other nonmagnetic coatings over steel.13"
"The first circuit interrupters for a-c service were of the air-break type, followed very shortly by oil circuit breakers for general high-voltage service. Air “Deion” circuit breakers introduced in 1928 provided a new type of circuit interrupter for a-c service. Recent applications of these principles result in a line of De-ion air circuit breakers for 2,500-volt and 5,000-volt ratings suitable for use in a-c feeder circuits, motor starting, and general station auxiliary service."
"The demand for protection against fault currents up to 20,000 amperes at 250 volts d-c or 600 volts a-c has led to the development of air circuit breakers having the desirable features of the present line of enclosed air circuit breakers, but having higher interrupting capacity. Tests at 20,000 amperes on the circuit breaker of lower interrupting capacity showed that certain modifications were necessary. By increasing the gap between the contacts, by using contacts which resist welding, and by using a modified arc chamber and contact construction, it was found possible to make the breaker satisfactory for 20,000-ampere short circuits."
"THIS REPORT presents characteristics of line-type arresters rated 20 to 73 kv, and is a continuation of the previous subcommittee report on “Distribution Lightning Arrester Performance Data” published in the AIEE Transactions, volume 56, 1937, pages 576–7."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"New developments in the social structure, brought about by the results of scientific and engineering achievements, have increased the intricacy of legal problems tremendously. By working together, the lawyer and the engineer undoubtedly can contribute more than they have in the past through wider appreciation of the economic and social problems involved."
"Development of fibrous glass yarn has provided a new insulating material that will withstand high operating temperatures for use in electrical machines"
"Research and development work usually are regarded as highly technical subjects and generally are so treated, but it is recognized that management has a very definite interest in their influence on technical progress, particularly in the industrial fields. This article is presented with this point in mind, and various suggestions and illustrations are offered as to how this kind of activity may be stimulated and more effectively controlled."
"Development of high-voltage dielectrics to meet the increasingly exacting demands of modern applications challenges chemical ingenuity and constitutes the broad avenue of chemical approach to the problem of high-voltage engineering"
"Combined photographic-oscillographic studies of lightning strokes to the 1,250-foot Empire State Building in New York City during the past several seasons, have confirmed some previous ideas pertaining to the nature and mechanism of the lightning discharge and have provided additional information enabling a more complete picture of this phenomenon to be drawn."
"The greatest values of the Institute to its membership “are to be found, as elsewhere in life, through the opportunities offered for giving out rather than for taking in”"
"TO PROVIDE interest for the greatest number of members a broad technical program of current interest and two general sessions have been proposed for the 1939 AIEE winter convention, which will be held in New York, N. Y., January 23–27, with headquarters in the Engineering Societies Building. Social events are being planned for the evenings — a smoker, presentation ceremonies for the Edison and John Fritz medals, and a dinner-dance. In addition, inspection trips will be arranged to a number of places of interest in the city and its environs. As in the past two years, an all-expense post-convention trip to Bermuda also is being planned."
"THE regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on October 25, 1938."
"The John Fritz Gold Medal for 1939 has been awarded to Doctor F. B. Jewett (A'03, F'12) for “vision and leadership in science, and for notable achievement in the furtherance of industrial research and development in communication.” This medal, the highest distinction bestowed jointly by the four national societies of civil, mining and metallurgical, mechanical, and electrical engineers of the United States for “notable scientific or industrial achievement,” will be presented with suitable ceremonies at one of the sessions of the AIEE winter convention, to be held at New York January 23–27, 1939."
"Provision in the Institute's 1938–39 budget has been made for cash awards to accompany the national and District prizes for initial and Branch papers to be awarded during the current year, as indicated below."
"THE continuance of all Institute activities considered to be of the greatest benefit to the membership, and in some instances an enlargement of the present program, are provided for in the 1938–39 budget adopted by the board of directors at its meeting held on October 25, 1938."
"MARKING the culmination of five years of existence, the Engineers' Council for Professional Development held its sixth annual meeting in New York, N. Y., October 21–22, 1938. Included in the program were the election of officers and appointment of committees, presentation of annual reports by the chairman and committees, and a dinner meeting at which informal talks were given by ECPD officers and others."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"United Engineering Trustees, Inc., one of the joint agencies supported and participated in by the AIEE, was organized in 1904 as an instrumentality of the Founder Societies, the four national societies of civil, mining and metallurgical, mechanical, and electrical engineers. Its purpose is the managing of property and funds in which these societies have joint interests, and it is governed by trustees duly appointed by the societies as their representatives. It maintains two departments: (1) the Engineering Societies Library, and (2) The Engineering Foundation."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Society Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"Careful analysis of the characteristics of a power system has been found to be necessary before applying Petersen coils to a system which has been operating either with the neutral isolated or grounded. In these two companion papers on Petersen coils, accent has been placed on the analysis of system characteristics in order to determine whether or not the application of Petersen coils will be satisfactory."
"Fluorescence is a property of many substances. It consists of an emission of light under excitation by radiation whose wave length falls within a critical absorption band. When the emission persists for an appreciable period after the existing radiation has been extinguished, it is known as phosphorescence."
"THE DEVICE described in this paper, called a “memnoscope,” is a system for obtaining an oscillogram of random phenomena and events immediately preceding and following its occurrence."
"Two low-voltage a-c networks have been installed in Tennessee, using a radically different protective scheme. The customary master relays, phasing relays, and associated current transformers have been omitted from the network protectors using in their place a remote-control system of pilot wires operated from relays at the supply substation which protect the high-voltage cable feeders."
"The total emission current in a vacuum tube can be expressed by the familiar space-charge equation. This paper shows theoretically that the ratio of plate current to total current should be a function only of the ratio of grid to plate voltage, and introduces experimental data to show that the function can be represented by a single exponential term. The exponential function is combined with the space-charge equation to obtain an empirical equation for the positive-grid plate-current characteristic. A simple, experimental method of obtaining the constants in this equation is described."
"The History and Results of High-Speed Breaker Development"
"A description of a new multibreak interrupter for fast clearing of short circuits applicable to high-voltage conventional tank-type oil circuit breakers. Breakers equipped with such interrupters were subjected to interrupting tests on large 138-kv and 230-kv systems during which short circuits as high as 2,000,000 kva were interrupted in less than five cycles. The results of those interrupting tests are shown and discussed."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IN THE CONTROL and protective circuits of complex electrical systems it is frequently necessary to make intricate interconnections of relay contacts and switches. Examples of these circuits occur in automatic telephone exchanges, industrial motor-control equipment, and in almost any circuits designed to perform complex operations automatically. In this paper a mathematical analysis of certain of the properties of such networks will be made. Particular attention will be given to the problem of network synthesis. Given certain characteristics, it is required to find a circuit incorporating these characteristics. The solution of this type of problem is not unique and methods of finding those particular circuits requiring the least number of relay contacts and switch blades will be studied. Methods will also be described for finding any number of circuits equivalent to a given circuit in all operating characteristics. It will be shown that several of the well-known theorems on impedance networks have roughly analogous theorems in relay circuits. Notable among these are the delta-wye and star-mesh transformations, and the duality theorem."
"FLUORESCENT lamps have been developed, simple in design, and operating through suitable ballast from 115- and 230-volt a-c circuits. They are tubular in form, and the fluorescent material is energized by a hot-cathode positive-column electric discharge. Just as a transformer converts one voltage to another, the fluorescent powder adhering to the inner wall of the bulb converts the invisible ultraviolet radiation present in a low-pressure mercury discharge into visible radiation, or light. Recent progress in the development of these lamps has resulted from the gradual increase in knowledge pertaining to hot cathodes, to the production of short-wave ultraviolet, and to the manufacture of efficient fluorescent powders. These advances have been applied in a lamp to produce colored light many times more efficiently than do present light sources. In addition, fluorescence makes possible for the first time an efficient, practicable, low-wattage white light matching daylight in appearance. Much of the development has been concentrated on the electrical characteristics of the lamps, and on the design of efficient ballast equipment. The lamps described are in one of several classes which are under development. In some respects they are experimental and may be changed before being commercialized."
"IT IS THE OBJECT of this paper to exhibit the great range of problems, often very difficult analytically, which can be solved with comparative ease by graphical means. The paper is based on several lectures presented to the electrical and mechanical sections of the advanced course in engineering of the General Electric Company. Due to lack of space the theory will be presented rather briefly, though enough of it will be included to make the treatment complete. Some of the solutions presented are believed to be new."
"IT IS believed that many worth-while savings and improvements can be obtained by considering more carefully than has been done in the past, what constitutes rational turbine-generator stability requirements. Keeping this objective in view, this paper reviews and analyzes the steady-state stability characteristics of turbine generators taking the effects of saturation into account."
"This paper formulates the essential properties of spherical waves in terms of familiar engineering concepts. The physical picture resulting from this point of view facilitates the solution of certain physical problems, notably those having to do with reflection, refraction, shielding and power absorption."
"THERE has long been a need for a means of evaluating the performance of induction motors under transient conditions, as when driving pulsating compressor loads. The familiar equivalent-circuit analysis is inadequate to determine the effects of pulsating speeds, and the more complete analysis of S. J. Levine1 is somewhat inconvenient, since the rotating axes assumed lead to involved equations. Probably the most convenient approach is to be found in the stationary-axis method so successfully applied by R. H. Park2 to the analysis of salient-pole synchronous machines."
"Rapid strides have been made in the field of high-voltage electrical-discharge tubes. The most recent development has been the use of fluorescent phenomena. Fluorescent materials were first introduced as an integral part of the glass. The New York World's Fair has made a number of installations of Claude Zeon fluorescent tubes in which the fluorescent materials are placed as a coating on the inside walls of the tubing. Remarkable efficiencies and a full range of pastel shades make high-voltage fluorescent tubing a valuable tool for the use of the engineer, architectural designer, and advertiser."
"SQUARE tubular bus bars are coming into use to an increasing extent, as they are economical and convenient for joining to insulators and to branch circuits. The reactance of bus-bar circuits is frequently of importance, in order to compute the voltage drop under normal conditions and the current under short-circuit conditions. The purpose of this paper is to present formulas and curves by which the reactance of square tubular bus bars may be determined."
"AS THE sensitivity of measuring equipment has been improved, it has become evident that all air capacitors are not loss free. The high sensitivity bridges used today in dielectric investigations measure the difference between the power factor of the standard air capacitor and of the specimen in the test capacitor. To determine accurately the loss in the specimen the value of the absolute power factor of the standard should be known."
"THE purpose of this discussion is to derive the basic equations for electric radiation and for sound radiation by elementary calculus, without using the notions of differential equations or of vector analysis. The essential step is the selection of an elementary wave pulse discontinuous only at its front and not involving double layers nor regions of infinite energy at the wave front."
"Fractional slot windings have certain well-known attributes which cause them to be quite generally used in synchronous-machine design. However, it is recognized that occasionally a winding will be produced which will develop harmonics in the air gap magnetomotive force that will lead to excessive losses, vibration, and noise. The published methods for computing the amplitudes of these harmonics are laborious to use and make a special case of every winding. It is the purpose of this paper to develop general formulas for computing the distribution factor and pitch factor of any magnetomotive force harmonic set-up by three-phase fractional slot windings of normal design. It is believed that these should permit in many cases a choice of winding arrangement such as either to eliminate or at least to minimize any undesirable harmonic so that its ill effects would be negligible. It is believed that the formulas are sufficiently simple to permit a complete tabulation of distribution and pitch factors over the normal range of slots per phase per pole now used in fractional slot windings."
"This is not a committee report, though perhaps it could be made to serve as such, because its genesis was a request from the committee on the economic status of the engineer that a paper be written around the author's remark, “The economic status of the engineer is largely a matter determined by each individual engineer according to his particular personal qualifications and the relations these bear to the work he does and to the personalities of those persons with whom and by whom he is employed.”"
"THE San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge was built by the State of California not only for heavy automobile traffic but also to benefit the 30,000,000 suburban railway passengers per year who are now transported across San Francisco Bay by passenger ferry boats belonging to the railway companies. The railway passengers, who are practically all commuters living in the east-bay cities and working in San Francisco, board the electric trains on branch lines near their homes and are taken to the piers by rail. They then transfer to the ferry boats which require about 20 minutes to cross the bay to the ferry building in San Francisco where the passengers disembark and walk or take street cars to their places of business. When the Bridge Railway is completed, passengers will board the electric trains near their homes in the east-bay cities and will be transported by rail, without transfer, to the new railway terminal in San Francisco near the business district of the city."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front inside cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Although a powerful analytical engineering tool, tensor analysis has been supposed by many to be an abstract toy used only by the mathematician and the theoretical physicist. This article, written by a mathematician, is intended to present the rudiments of the subject, and to point the way toward further study and a working knowledge of tensors in engineering. Readers who feel that mathematical subjects cannot be exposed in an entertaining — or even amusing — fashion may find in this article something of a surprise."
"In an address reported in a recent issue of Vital Speeches of the Day W. F. G. Swann, director of the Bartol Research Foundation of the Franklin Institute, Swarthmore, Pa., discussed the problem of the use of leisure that has been made available by the accomplishments of science. Although warning that it is difficult to appraise the present in relation to the past and future, Doctor Swann pointed out that one who views the world today cannot escape the impression that the change man has seen in the last hundred years does not find its counterpart in any like period of the world's history."
"THE EXISTING single-phase electrified system of The Pennsylvania Railroad, completed in the early part of 1935, extends from New York, N. Y., through Philadelphia, Pa., to Wilmington, Del., Baltimore, Md., Washington, D. C., and Potomac Yard, Va., for passenger and freight service north and south; and from New York to Philadelphia and Paoli, Pa, for service east and west. Including the trackage used for suburban service, this electrified system now covers a route of 373 miles with 1,343 miles of electrified track."
"The maintenance of reliability and continuity of electric power service is assumed to be an almost inherent function of the local electric utility company; but how much this reliability depends upon the physical interconnection of power systems is not generally realized. An engineer widely recognized as an authority describes here typical operating and economic advantages based upon experiences with an interconnected and co-ordinated system that extends over most of the area east of the Mississippi River."
"A brief and simple picture of electron theory, this article is intended for those readers who are not familiar with the more recent theories and who have followed branches of the profession not dealing with electronic devices. The electron is shown to be part of the atom, and to be the means by which electricity flows. Its function in electron tubes is explained, and the operation of amplifiers, rectifiers, and photoelectric cells of various types is discussed."
"A PROGRAM comprised of many attractive features has been arranged for the AIEE 1938 winter convention, which will be held January 24–28 in New York City, with headquarters, as usual, in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street. To provide added interest for the membership the technical program has been enlarged to 16 technical sessions, 1 general session, and 5 conference sessions. This has been made possible without detracting in the least from the usual social functions: the smoker, Edison Medal presentation, dinner-dance, and inspection trips to places of interest. As in previous years, the women's entertainment committee, with Mrs. George Sutherland, chairman, is arranging a special program for the visiting women. For those who would enjoy a few days' vacation after the convention, and in view of the success of last year's cruise, another post-convention cruise to Bermuda has been arranged. A summarized schedule of events is given in an accompanying tabulation."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"ALTHOUGH opinion differs as to whether tissue response to electrical stimulation results directly from imposed electrical quantities or indirectly from accompanying chemical changes, there is general agreement that the response occurs when a definite threshold value of some changing condition within the tissue has been reached. Bishop1 supports the belief that response results when a definite polarization is developed within the tissue; Hill2 associates response with a threshold value of cathode potential. We present here evidence to show that response occurs when a definite internal voltage has been built up in the tissue. Our conclusions are based on data obtained from oscillograms of this internal voltage."
"This paper outlines the reasons for application of pilot relay equipment, particularly of the carrier-current type. A one-cycle carrier-pilot-relay scheme is described which now makes available the desirable high-speed and back-up characteristics of step-type distance protection combined with the 100 per cent simultaneous tripping feature possible with a pilot circuit. Impedance and over current supervised single-phase directional elements are utilized for controlling carrier on phase and ground faults, respectively."
"THE TUNED-REACTANCE method of grounding a system neutral was first disclosed by Professor W. Petersen of Germany in 1917 (German patent number 304,823). It has been used extensively in Europe and other parts of the world and the number of installations in the United States recently has been increasing rapidly, which suggests that there is a place for the Petersen coil in American grounding practice. Tracing briefly the installations of Petersen coils in this country, the first one was made in a 44-kv system in 1921. Operating records on this system showed that the Petersen coil had improved service considerably. A second installation of 2 coils was made in a 140-kv system in 1931. Again expected improvements in service were substantiated. Further installations were made in 33-kv systems in 1935 and 1936. Although favorable reports on service continuity were given on all these installations, up until 1937, a period of approximately fifteen years, only a total of five coils were installed in systems in the United States. During the same period approximately 1,700 Petersen coils were installed in systems in other parts of the world."
"THE QUEST for a simple variable speed a-c motor has been long and, heretofore, not particularly successful. Consequently ever since the thyratron motor was mentioned during the early years of the present decade, it has aroused a great deal of interest among engineers, both because of its operating principles and because it appears to offer the possibility of a really effective and economical variable-speed alternating-current drive. It has been of particular interest to central-station engineers."
"ON OPEN-WIRE lines where the growth is not rapid, there is frequently need for adding telephone circuits one at a time. When the type-D single-channel carrier telephone system was developed a few years ago it became possible to meet this need without stringing additional wires.1 More than 500 of these systems have been placed in service in the Bell System plant. A new single-channel carrier telephone system, known as the type H, has recently been developed and is now being applied. This new system offers improved performance, and also, because of its lower cost, is applicable to providing service over shorter distances than were economical with the earlier system."
"IN RECENT years, the importance of designing oil-immersed transformers to avoid deterioration during insulation tests has been emphasized. This is indeed proper, since it is very desirable to prevent deterioration in any form, especially when it may result in future trouble to the user. It has been found that insulation deterioration is caused by corona or local discharges in the oil and over solid insulation surfaces. It is therefore necessary that the designer know the laws of corona in oil, as determined by the configuration of the parts and the strength of materials."
"DURING the past few years fundamental concepts of resistance welding have not been greatly changed, progress being limited mostly to refinements in the art of welding procedure, design of machines and auxiliary equipment, and broader applications to industry in general. Advances may be classified under the headings of time, pressure, and current control which are fundamental to all resistance welders, materials to be welded including their preparation for welding, and means for placing the parts in the welding machine."
"THE PROTECTIVE DEVICE committee is working on the problem of preparing standards for neutral grounding devices. One of the most important points up for consideration is the selection of the temperature limits for various times of operations of the devices."
"The similarity principle for electrical discharges is used to correlate the most recent AIEE sphere-gap data for both positive and negative impulses. Empirical formulas are developed from which the entire range of data can be calculated to within about 1.5 per cent. Some practical results of this study are: 1. Spark-over curves for each value of spacing to diameter ratio are straight lines when plotted to logarithmic scales, at least to within the certainty of the present data. 2. A spark-over voltage chart covering the entire useful range of sphere sizes, spacings, and air densities can be constructed easily. 3. New air-density correction factors are derived which differ appreciably from those previously published."
"This paper reviews modern urban surface transit developments, traces the reasons for the changes, and outlines some of the problems involved and their solution."
"THE URBAN transportation problem involves the movement of large numbers of city dwellers to and from work, school, or the shopping districts. These movements are frequently concentrated into a few hours in the morning and evening, and are handled largely through city streets, or, in the larger cities, on subway or elevated lines. The corporations handling this business, commonly called “mass transportation,” operate under franchises from local authorities. These franchises usually specify minimum service over specified routes."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front inside cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE great economic changes of the past 20 years and the accompanying political upheavals have made it increasingly apparent that we are living in the midst of what may be called an era of profound historical change, the ultimate consequences of which no one can now foresee. It is therefore incumbent upon us as the inheritors and transmitters of civilization to study in as fundamental terms as our intelligence makes possible, the nature of and the reasons for the business, economic, engineering, and political problems and tendencies which are shaping our fortunes and our destinies. Whether our individual activities are devoted to manufacturing, mining, farming, banking, trade, or the professions, we all are vitally affected by current trends and all interested in having a more efficiently functioning economic system."
"Based upon 30 years of experience in standardization, the reflections presented here suggest the need of open-mindedness and progressiveness in the use of industrial standards. Industrial standardization is believed to be best administered by some voluntary association, yet a need for closer co-operation between Government and existing standards organizations seems to exist."
"Having procured in a previous part of this article∗ a good specimen in the “hunt” for the tensor, the author proceeds here to catalog most of the characteristics of the catch. Among other subjects, discussions of tensor fields, tensor notation, and rules for transformation are included in this part. The finale, part III, will give the reader an inkling of the importance of tensor applications in physics and engineering."
"Corrosion of metal buried in the earth, such as oil, gas, and water pipe lines and cable sheaths, by stray currents from grounded-return circuits such as railways is a subject of growing interest and importance. Conflicting theories prevail, but this article aims to present unbiased results from a fundamental investigation."
"On February 11, 1938, The Edison Tower at Menlo Park, N. J., shown on the front cover of this issue, will be dedicated, according to an announcement by James Burke (A'93, F'13, member for life), president of the Edison Pioneers. On that day, which marks the 91st anniversary of Thomas Alva Edison's birth, the giant replica of his first practical incandescent lamp will be lighted when a button is pushed at the annual luncheon meeting of the Edison Pioneers in New York, N. Y., 30 miles distant from the tower, and thereafter it will be lighted nightly."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"PROGRAMMED to “discuss current problems and arrive at conclusions representing the engineers' point of view and to reduce engineering opinion to resolutions designed to make engineers and their organizations more effective in the public interest and among themselves,” the official representatives of 50 engineering organizations met January 13–15, 1938, in Washington, D. C., for the eighteenth annual assembly of American Engineering Council. The AIEE was represented by its official delegates: W. H. Harrison (part time), William McClellan, C. E. Stephens, and National Secretary H. H. Henline. Included on the program were meetings of Council's principal committees, election of officers, and the annual “All Engineers' Dinner.”"
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"This car is the result of a collective effort to modernize and improve the street car. Its development was preceded by extensive investigation directed toward determining the characteristics of conventional cars and the ways in which and extents to which these should be modified to approach the ideals of street-railway executives and of the riding public, respectively. Car and equipment designs were then produced. These represent the best technical approach to these ideals which could be reached within the economic limitations which exist. The car has been made more agile, has been given better appearance and better performance in many respects which affect the passenger. In spite of the addition of equipment not used in the older cars and of many refinements of design it is obtainable at a price which appears to meet the economic requirements. Over 500 of these new vehicles are already in use in seven cities of this country."
"WHEN POWER systems were relatively small and simple, frequently comprising only one generating station with a radial distribution system, there was little need to study the effect of a proposed addition or change on an existing system. The growth and in recent years the interconnection of power systems have brought with them an increased quality of electric service and divers new devices for maintaining that service. In a power system of the size and complexity of many of those now in operation, many of the component parts inherently have the ability to profoundly affect the successful operation of the system. Consequently, it has become necessary for engineers to study their systems much more critically and to know a great deal more about them than heretofore. Fortunately, the technical background for such critical studies has kept pace with the increase in size and complexity of power systems. However, the calculations which constitute a large part of the work of making such a critical study, when carried out by long hand methods are generally laborious — frequently, sufficiently laborious to greatly curtail the scope of the study and at times to prevent the study being made altogether."
"ANY MATHEMATICAL process, even though fully developed in theoretical form, takes on more meaning, and thereby becomes more useful, if it is applied to familiar concepts. If in this application certain conclusions can be reached with ease which ordinarily are reached with difficulty, the utility of the mathematical process is still more conclusively demonstrated."
"THE ACCOUNTING system which will be outlined in this paper will be discussed mainly in its application to a department store. However, it will not require any great stretch of the imagination to visualize the application of the same system and devices to other fields, including factory production control and pay rolls, public-utility accounts receivable, and others."
"This paper deals with the magnitude of currents in a secondary a-c network due to a line-to-line fault on the high-voltage feeder, and gives the analysis of the double-unbalance circuit resulting when a network protector fails to open during such a fault, and one of the protector fuses blows. Results of field tests made on an actual network are included."
"ALTHOUGH wood has been known to possess the excellent properties of mechanical strength in combination with insulation strength almost since the beginning of the electrical art, its real lightning strength was not generally appreciated until within comparatively recent years. It is true that it was rather extensively used in the past to supply power frequency insulation in treated form alone or with transil oil. For example, wood either solid or laminated has been employed for years in operating rods on oil circuit breakers and in terminal and spacing blocks in transformers. The 60-cycle strength of wood under those conditions has been studied, and although the results were not made available generally, the strength factors had been known with considerable preciseness for some time. In these applications, however, the 60-cycle (i.e., power frequency) strength of wood has been of paramount interest, and the lightning or impulse insulation value of secondary interest, either because the latter was considered comparatively unimportant or because the impulse strength furnished by other insulating members or mediums in the structure was considered sufficient."
"ON THIS and the following 12 pages appear discussions submitted for publication, and approved by the technical committees, on papers presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Spokane, Wash., August 31-September 3, 1937; and at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Akron, Ohio, October 13–15, 1937. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by Lester E. Reukema published in the August 1937 issue, pages 1002–11, and presented for oral discussion at the communication session of the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Spokane, Wash., September 2, 1937."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by F. E. Sanford and Willard Weise published in the October 1937 issue, pages 1248–52, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Akron, Ohio, October 13, 1937."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by J. W. Butler and C. Concordia published in the August 1937 issue, pages 975–88, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission and distribution session of the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Spokane, Wash., September 1, 1937."
"Author's closing discussion of a paper published in the July 1937 issue, pages 823–32, and presented for oral discussion at the development of protective equipment session of the Pacific Coast convention, Spokane, Wash., August 31, 1937. Other discussion of this paper appeared in the December 1937 issue, pages 1513–14."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by W. C. Kalb published in the September 1937 issue, pages 1165–8, and presented for oral discussion at the iron and steel session of the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Akron, Ohio, October 15, 1937."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front inside cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The transmission of electric power at extremely high frequencies through rods or “wires” of dielectric and through metal tubes, without the usual return conductor, was predicted mathematically many years ago. Recently experiments have confirmed this theory. Wave guides offer the possibility of transmitting very wide frequency bands and consequently extremely large numbers of speech channels without the high attenuations encountered in radio; in fact, constantly decreasing attenuation with increasing frequency is predicted for one type of wave. Some of the properties of the waves and the apparatus used in studying them are described in this article."
"Increasing demand for sheet steel in the automotive, canning, and welding industries has caused the development during the last decade of mills for the continuous rolling of steel sheets as wide as 96 inches. Electrical power and control are used exclusively, and now influence the design of the mechanical equipment."
"A relatively new offshoot of electrical-engineering science, electronic engineering is being projected rapidly into a multitude of uses in communication, research, industrial control; large-scale electric power transmission, using electron tubes as rectifiers and inverters, now seems to be feasible. A few of the many applications are described in this article to show the remarkable versatility of the electron and the devices used to control it."
"In two preceding parts of this article∗ the tensor was hunted to its lair and tortured until it revealed its innermost secrets. Here the author shows how some of those secrets have helped to solve difficult problems in theoretical physics and engineering. Tensor analysis is not propounded as the best method of attack for all speculative problems, but is shown to offer perhaps the simplest solution of many problems requiring broad, searching analysis."
"MOST ENGINEERS as well as educational and research institutions are continually faced with the problem of locating reliable, adequate, and up-to-date sources of information. Obviously, standard textbooks and important periodicals are the basic sources. However, because textbooks present in permanent form generally accepted theories or facts which probably first appeared in periodical publications at a much earlier date, the latter are the most important sources of current information. This article is an abridgement of a recent report on evaluation of scientific periodicals,1 and presents lists totaling 108 journals for electrical engineers,"
"WITH a total registration of 1,438 members and their families and guests, attendance at the Institute's 1938 winter convention held in New York, N. Y., January 24–28, was the best since 1931 when a total of 1,589 registered. New attendance records were set for both the smoker and the dinner-dance, 1,201 for the former and 651 for the latter. Details concerning registration and attendance at technical sessions and other features of the program are given in accompanying tabulations."
"A three-day meeting and Student Branch convention of the AIEE North Eastern District will be held May 18–20, 1938, at Lenox, Mass., under sponsorship of the Pittsfield Section. Headquarters will be at the Curtis Hotel, and arrangements have been made to house those attending in this hotel and in other hotels in town. K. B. McEachron (A'14, M'20, director) past-chairman of that Section is general chairman of the committee on arrangements."
"Marking an innovation in winter-convention programs, the “general” session held the morning of January 26 aroused wide interest, as was evidenced by the 450 members and guests who attended. The principal feature of the session was an address “Technological Development in Relation to Economics,” delivered by H. G. Moulton, president of the Brookings Institution, Washington, D. C., and eminent economist. The great interest in this address was further evidenced by the many questions asked at its conclusion, which Doctor Moulton had previously agreed to answer, and the wide publicity given it by the press. An article embracing the essential substance of the address was published in the February issue, pages 51–6. Preceding Doctor Moulton on the program were brief addresses by President W. H. Harrison and T. F. Barton, chairman of the winter convention committee, and the presentation of the 1937 Alfred Noble prize to G. M. L. Sommerman (A'31, M'37) research engineer of the American Steel and Wire Company, Worcester, Mass."
"Five papers were presented at the session on lightning protection, over which K. B. McEachron, vice-chairman of the protective devices committee, presided. Two of the papers discussed the Petersen coil, which is a device used to tune a transmission system in order to aid extinction of arc following lashover. Although many installations have been made in Europe, only a few have been made in the United States."
"TO PROVIDE opportunity for the direct informal interchange of ideas on subjects of a specialized nature among specialists and others interested in such subjects, five technical conferences were held during the AIEE 1938 winter convention. Brief reports of these conferences are presented here. These reports were prepared by the conference chairmen, or from notes furnished by them, except the conference on education, which was prepared by the conference secretary."
"A complete official ticket of candidates for the Institute offices that will become vacant August 1, 1938, was selected by the national nominating committee at its meeting held at Institute headquarters, New York, January 25, 1938. This committee, in accordance with the constitution and by-laws, consists of 15, one selected by the executive committee of each of the ten geographical Districts, and five selected by the board of directors from its own membership."
"DURING the recent AIEE winter convention, meetings of 13 general and technical committees and of six subcommittees of the Institute were held. Brief reports of the meetings of eight committees and five subcommittees are given here; others will be published as they become available. These reports have been prepared by the committee chairmen, or from notes supplied by them, except the report of the committee on Sections which was prepared by the committee secretary."
"Major objectives of the AIEE, as stipulated in its Constitution, were reaffirmed in the results of a survey recently completed by the Sections committee. Final report, based upon “self-analyses” by 32 of the Institute's 64 Sections and prepared by C. M. Foust (chairman of the AIEE Schenectady Section 1936 — 37) was approved at a meeting of the Sections committee held during the rcent winter convention. Full text is presented here."
"At a meeting on January 28, 1938, in New York, N. Y., the Eta Kappa Nu Association presented to C. G. Suits of the General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., its award for the 1937 Eta Kappa Nu recognition of “outstanding young electrical engineers.” Mr. Suits received a small bronze bowl, a replica of the larger one on display at AIEE headquarters, and upon which his name now is engraved as the second winner of the award. The first award was made last year to F. M. Starr (A'30) of the same company."
"American Association for the Advancement of Science. Summer meeting, June, Ottawa, Can."
"The commentor states that the original author's [Louis S. Leavitt] charges (ibid., Jan 1938, pp 42), that the engineering examining boards are composed of politicians and that the whole thing may degenerate to a political racket, \"is not\" substantiated by the facts. These facts are available to anyone; even to those whose sincerity of purpose is questionable, when tainted with such violent abuse of their fellow practitioners. The commentor further states that he has yet to witness in the legal or medical profession such an unethical attack unchallenged. The members of these examining boards are members of our profession serving with little or no compensation at great personal sacrifice without fear or favor and need no defense other than their unimpeachable records."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on February 17, 1938, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"IN THE March 1935 issue of Electronics, a voltmeter for d-c arc welding was described. In this instrument the arc voltage was applied over a high resistance to the grid of a vacuum tube and a condenser was shunted across grid and cathode. The rapid fluctuations of the arc voltage are filtered out by this combination, and a meter placed in the plate circuit of the tube can therefore be calibrated in terms of average arc voltage. It was also possible to spread the scale of the meter so that it covered the range of welding voltage only, which leads to an increase of accuracy in determining the average arc voltage."
"THE GENERAL idea of pilot relaying is quite old. It has been employed for several decades in the Mertz Price system where pilot wires are employed for balancing the currents at the two ends of the line and has met with considerable success in Europe, and particularly in England. A simpler pilot scheme in which the pilot wire is used merely to conduct an impulse, and the conditions of the line at the two ends of the section are indicated by the relative positions of a series of power directional relays, has been employed and has been described elsewhere.1 Neither of the above schemes, however, has ever met with any great favor in the United States on account of the prohibitive cost of pilot wire circuits, and particularly on long lines, and because in the long run the scheme itself is no more reliable than the pilot wire. Experience has shown that the reliability of the latter is not quite at the 100 per cent level desired and mandatory for proper service."
"The present method of rating resistance-welding transformers varies with the different manufacturers, causing a certain amount of confusion among the users of this equipment. It is recommended that a standard method of rating, based on the thermally equivalent continuous output, be adopted and adhered to by the manufacturers. The general requirements of a welding transformer are discussed for the purpose of explaining the desirability of such a standard rating. Certain of the recommendations made herein are already embodied in the present AIEE Standards for resistance welding apparatus, and in the standards adopted by the Resistance Welder Manufacturers Association, but it is further recommended that these standards be altered to require additional name plate data. It is hoped that the transformer manufacturers and users will recognize the desirability of such standardization, and co-operate in its universal adoption."
"The paper reviews the historical development of joint use and the general results to date of studies of protective problems of lower and higher voltage joint use. The safety features are reviewed from the standpoint of (1) subscribers' premises, (2) employees, and (3) telephone plant. Characteristics of equipment of power and telephone plant as far as they relate to this problem are given. The various factors which determine magnitude and duration of the current and voltage in the telephone plant resulting from a contact with power conductors are discussed. Improved methods for obtaining safety under various conditions, where higher voltage joint use is found to be the best over-all solution, are described."
"Application of a recently developed method whereby it is possible virtually to see the voids in the layer structure of high voltage cable insulation shows most such insulation to be mechanically irregular. Lack of mechanical uniformity in the cable as manufactured is responsible for much of the ionization after the load cycle, and probably to a great extent for ionization break-down. Application of the method and of supplementary methods should lead to better load cycle stability, improved installation practice, and ultimately to reduced insulation thicknesses."
"THE INVESTIGATION described in this paper was initiated in 1931 by The Rubber Insulated Wire and Cable Section of The National Electrical Manufacturers' Association (NEMA), for the purpose of determining the current-carrying capacities of rubber-insulated wires and cables installed in buildings. The reasons for this investigation were as follows:"
"ON THIS and the following 2 pages appear all remaining discussions submitted for publication, and approved by the technical committees, on papers presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Spokane, Wash., August 31-September 3, 1937; and at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Akron, Ohio, October 13–15, 1937. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by L. A. Kilgore and J. H. Cox published in the September 1937 issue, pages 1134–40, and presented for oral discussion at the electronics session of the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Akron, Ohio, October 14, 1937."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by Joseph H. Carroll and Mabel Macferran Rockwell published in the May 1937 issue, pages 558–65, and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission and distribution session of the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Spokane, Wash., September 1, 1937."
"Discussion and Author's closure of a paper by W. V. Boughton published in the August 1937 issue, pages 959–63, and presented for oral discussion at the selected subjects session of the AIEE Pacific Coast Convention, Spokane, Wash., August 31, 1937."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front inside cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IN ANALYZING the probable future trend in the development of aviation, it appears desirable to limit the discussion to the study of three major factors, the combined effect of which to a large extent will determine the most interesting future developments. The characteristics under discussion will be speed, altitude of flight, and possible size of aircraft."
"IN THE competitive struggle of steel manufacture, the modern tendency is toward the adoption of bigger, faster, and more efficient machinery. In point of size, a new 98-inch strip mill recently placed in service by the Republic Steel Corporation at Cleveland, Ohio, now dominates the field. Recent improvements in lubrication, hydraulics, welding, design of bearings, and electrical control have been embodied in the design of the new mill to make possible the production of extra-wide sheet steel at an exceptionally high speed. Maximum delivery speed of the hot mill is 2,121 feet per minute. It can roll all finished widths from 30 to 94 inches and all finished thicknesses from 18-gauge strip to one-half-inch plate. The plant has a rated capacity of 70,000 gross tons per month."
"AN electrical engineer visiting Europe is immediately struck by the wide differences in design of switch-gear compared to familiar practices in the United States. In England, metal-clad gear is nearly universal except for the highest voltages and even at 132 kv there are metal-clad gears. On the Continent there are almost no metal-clad gears. This does not result in any similarity between Continental stations and American open switching stations with their rows of tank-type circuit breakers. In France some tank-type oil circuit breakers still are being installed but a variety of different designs are appearing, while in Germany the tank-type circuit breaker may be said to be altogether obsolete."
"On the basis of 20 years' observation of governments in various parts of the world, the author presents here some opinions concerning the functioning of those governments and draws some comparisons between the American form of government and those abroad. He urges all American engineers to contribute intelligent support to their established political system."
"Failure of the lead sheath on underground cable may be caused by stray currents flowing through sections of the sheath or by local electro-chemical action, either of which destroys the lead by corrosion. In order that proper remedies may be applied, the cause first must be determined; some methods are described in this article."
"Although the question of the relative merits of converting 2,300-volt distribution feeders to 4,000-volt operation has been treated liberally in technical literature, relatively little has been published concerning efficient methods of accomplishing such conversions once they have been decided upon for economic or other reasons. Hence the accompanying outline of a successful procedure is presented in the hope that it may be of interest and value to many engineers faced with some of the problems involved. The authors are in effect presenting the accumulative results of three years of actual field work incident to the conversion of some 45 distribution feeders."
"A PLEASANT three days are in store for all who will attend the North Eastern District meeting of the AIEE to be held at Lenox, Mass., May 18–20, 1938. Headquarters will be at the Curtis Hotel, and arrangements have been made to house those attending in this hotel and in other hotels in town. Lenox is a beautiful New England village situated about six miles from Pittsfield in the heart of the Berkshire Mountains. Attractive entertainment, interesting trips, and technical sessions have been arranged by the general meeting committee, K. B. McEachron, chairman."
"Pursuant to authorization by the AIEE board of directors, the AIEE Muscle Shoals Section held its organization meeting in the visitors' room of the Wilson Dam power house February 18, 1938. Territory included in the new Section is: Alabama counties — Lauderdale, Limestone, Colbert, Lawrence, Morgan, Franklin, and Marion; Mississippi counties — Tishomingo, Itawamba, Alcorn, Prentiss, Lee; Tennessee counties — Hardin, Wayne, Lawrence, Giles, Lewis, and Maury. This is the Institute's 65th Section."
"The annual summer convention of the AIEE will be held in Washington, D. C., June 20–24, 1938, with headquarters at the Mayflower Hotel. The nation's capital, a center of historical interest and scenic beauty, situated on the banks of the Potomac, provides an ideal setting. Arrangements are being made by the committees for a business program combined with entertainment, trips, and sports, which will make for a pleasurable and profitable week."
"To indicate the present status of development of devices used in telemetering and supervisory-control services, a revised report on telemetering, supervisory control, and associated communication circuits now is being prepared by a joint subcommittee of the AIEE composed of members of the committees on instruments and measurements and automatic stations; P. A. Borden (A'13, M'19) development engineer, Bristol Company, Waterbury, Conn., is chairman. The subcommittee's original report on this subject was completed in 1932, and essentially full text of that report (excepting extensive tabulations) was published in the September 1932 issue of Electrical Engineering, pages 613–20."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Atrip to Timberline Lodge on the slopes of Mount Hood, some 60 miles from Portland, Ore., may be included on the program of the AIEE 1938 Pacific Coast convention to be held in Portland. Convention dates, August 9–12, are almost a month earlier than those of previous recent conventions in order to provide better opportunity for combined vacation-convention trips."
"Upon recommendation of the AIEE Sections committee, the Institute's board of directors has authorized a change in name of the Atlanta Section to “Georgia Section,” and the extension of its territory to include the entire state of Georgia. The membership of that Section will thereby be increased from some 80 to more than 100 members."
"Members of the Institute who contemplate visiting foreign countries are reminded that since 1912 the Institute has had reciprocal arrangements with a number of foreign engineering societies for the exchange of visiting member privileges, which entitle members of the Institute while abroad to membership privileges in these societies for a period of three months and members of foreign societies visiting the United States to the privileges of Institute membership for a like period of time, upon presentation of proper credentials. A form of certificate which serves as credentials from the Institute to the foreign societies for the use of Institute members desiring to avail themselves of these exchange privileges may be obtained upon application to Institute headquarters, New York. The members should specify which country or countries they expect to visit, so that the proper number of certificates may be provided, one certificate being addressed to only one society."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The eighteenth annual assembly of the American Engineering Council has approved the following findings of its special committee on scientific research legislation. In so doing, Council is believed to have voiced the sentiment of all of those engineers who realize that technology is our greatest national resource in terms of employment and economic stability and that fundamental research in the broad field of technology is essential to the advancement of modern civilization."
"The commentor states that the author of the original letter (ibid., Jan 1938, pp 42), may for some personal reason, not approve of the methods of handling the \"registration\" of engineers in his territory. To condemn the whole proposition and persons and technique as a \"racket\" is certainly not an \"ethical engineering report.\" "
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"That the current-voltage characteristics of vacuum tubes obey an exponential law near cutoff is pointed out. The larger the coefficient k appearing in the exponent, the steeper will be the current-voltage curve, and the better suited the tube will be for use in a slide-back voltmeter. The problem of obtaining high values of k is considered, and a simple theory of rectification by an exponential conductor is given. The error inherent in slide-back voltmeters of the ordinary type is discussed, and a correction factor applicable to sine waves is derived. The circuit of a slide-back vacuum-tube voltmeter which includes means for measuring the k of the tube is shown."
"IT HAS long been recognized that the transient performance of an arc-welding generator greatly exceeds its static performance in importance. By transient performance is meant the behavior of the machine during the period of readjustment after a disturbance has taken place in the external circuit. Unlike most generators, an arc-welding generator supplies energy to a load in which conditions are continually changing, and the importance of the machine's ability to respond quickly to these rapid variations is obvious."
"THE REQUIREMENT that transformers withstand certain specified impulse tests has been accepted by the industry as desirable, and the Institute has recommended a standard method of testing transformers with a 1.5 × 40 microsecond wave."
"TO DETERMINE the relative effectiveness of various methods of protecting distribution transformers from lightning an annual survey of operating companies was initiated in 1934 by the transmission and distribution committee of the Edison Electric Institute and continued through 1935 and 1936. In 1934 operating data were obtained from 38 companies, in 1935 from 43 companies, and in 1936 from 41 companies. The results for 1934 were presented in a previous paper. This paper presents a summary of the data for the three years and draws conclusions therefrom. It is only by collecting such data from a number of companies for numerous installations for a number of years will conclusive data be obtained so that annual variations in storm frequency and severity will be averaged. It is planned to continue the collection of these data for several years. In the future it is hoped that data for a sufficient number of years will be obtained from each company so that the troubles may be weighted by the isokeraunic level of each territory served."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by C. E. Heitman published on pages 125–30 of this volume (March section) and presented for oral discussion at the electric welding session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 26, 1938."
"Discussion and closure of a report of the subcommittee on resistance welding of the AIEE committee on electric welding published on pages 37–8 of this volume (January section) and presented for oral discussion at the electric welding session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 26, 1938."
"Discussion end author's closure of a paper by Walther Richter published on pages 115–17 of this volume (March section) and presented for oral discussion at the electronics session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1938."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front inside cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In a very few years after its discovery in 1898, radioactivity became and has ever since remained the most celebrated subdivision of modern physics. In addition to substances naturally radioactive, such as radium, others may be made so artificially; in fact, of all the known elements, hydrogen alone remains the only one of which a radioactive type has not been discovered or invented."
"DAMAGE estimated at $500,000 a year is caused to the transoceanic telegraph cables of the world by the heavy drags or otterboards which are attached to fishing nets dragged along the ocean bottom by steam trawlers. To protect cables in waters where they are exposed to this hazard and thereby reduce this loss, a plow has been devised by engineers of the Western Union Telegraph Company which when pulled along the ocean bottom is expected to cut a furrow, drop the cable into it, and back fill over the cable. The first cables scheduled to be plowed under are in the fishing banks off the coast of Ireland, where damage is particularly severe."
"Personal merit long has been recognized as the most important factor in the selection of people for unusual opportunities. Personal opinion may vary widely as to where responsibility for development lies, but no young engineer can do better than to assume it himself. The suggestions summarized at the end of this article are logical conclusions based on careful study and rationalization of opinions of people sympathetic to problems of adjustment. They should be of interest to every graduate."
"SWITCHING usually is considered as the physical opening or closing of metallic circuits as, for example, where a circuit breaker or a knife switch is put in motion mechanically to break or make connections between conductors leading to a circuit or device. However, switching may be performed in other ways, as by changing the operating potentials from one polarity or magnitude to another polarity or another magnitude. For example, a control voltage on an amplifier tube may be altered to change the circuit from a nonamplifying to an amplifying condition. The making of circuits operative or inoperative by a change in polarity or magnitude, or both, as performed by means of an electronic device is called “electronic switching.” No moving parts are involved and the control may be much faster and more economical than control by mechanically operated devices. If two circuits or devices are controlled by an electronic switch, it is called a two-circuit electronic switch.1,2 In the same way, if three, four, or five circuits are controlled, the electronic switch is called a three-, four-, or five-circuit electronic switch."
"WASHINGTON, D.C., is the city which perhaps every citizen of the United States plans to visit. It ranks with London and Paris as one of the great capitals of the world. The 1938 AIEE summer convention to be held there June 20–24 offers an extraordinary opportunity for combining business, pleasure, sightseeing, and education amid the national shrines, in a city that is neither northern nor southern, neither eastern nor western. Here are neighbors from every state. Within short distances are the Atlantic Ocean and Chesapeake Bay beaches, the mountain resorts of Virginia, and the Shenandoah Valley and its famous caves and historical spots relating to the founding of the Republic and the Civil War. Convention headquarters will be the Mayflower Hotel."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"All is in readiness for the three-day meeting of the North Eastern District of the AIEE to be held at Lenox, Mass., May 18–20, 1938, with headquarters in the Curtis Hotel. A splendid program of entertainment, technical sessions, and inspection trips to nearby industries awaits those who will attend. Those planning to attend who have not already registered in advance, are urged to fill in and mail the advance registration card or write to L. G. Hamilton, chairman, hotel and registration committee, care of central station Department, General Electric Company, 100 Woodlawn Ave., Pittsfield, Mass."
"A meeting of the executive committee of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., March 29, 1938, in place of the regular meeting of the board of directors."
"Following last year's successful innovation, a joint technical session with the Pacific Coast members of the Institute of Radio Engineers is being planned as one of the features of the AIEE 1938 Pacific Coast convention to be held in Portland, Ore., August 9–12, 1938. Approval of the joint session was given by the AIEE executive committee at its meeting of March 29."
"In accordance with the provisions of the Institute's 1937–38 budget as approved by the finance committee and the board of directors, the 1938 edition of the AIEE Year Book has been issued, in limited edition, and is available to members of the Institute who have use for it. The book contains essentially the same material as was included in the 1937 edition; business and mailing addresses have been corrected as of February 28, 1938."
"For several years, one of the annual meetings held by the power group of the AIEE New York Section has been a “volunteer paper program” consisting entirely of papers selected from voluntary submissions. This year, for the first time, two cash prizes were awarded. The meeting, which was held April 14, 1938 in the Engineering Societies Building, was attended by about 150 members and guests."
"A total of 172 students in electrical engineering and Student Branch counselors registered at the annual student conference of the AIEE Southern District, held at the Virginia Military Institute, March 24–26. Representatives were present from every one of the 18 Branches in the District:"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Congressman McFarlane and his associates have substituted H.R. 10068 for H.R. 9259 and thus changed many of the implications of current patent legislation. Moreover, Council's staff reliably is informed that no compulsory licensing of patents or similar threat to change patent regulations radically is in the schedule of bills to come up for action during this session of Congress. In fact, proponents of such legislation are no longer in a mood to fight for it."
"Regarding Mr. Leavitt's (ibid., Jan 1938, pp 42) guesses, predictions and humble opinions to the effect that registration will affect the profession adversely by degenerating into a political racket and lowering our ethics, the commentor has seen no indications in any of his dealings with the various boards mentioned to substantiate such a viewpoint. Regarding Mr. Leavitt's implications that it might be well to start a \"backfire aimed at removing the law from the books,\" it seems to me that such words are rather hasty and uncalled for, especially in view of the prima-facie evidence of lack of information contained in his request for factual data."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Society Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"A new 12-channel carrier telephone system for existing cables is described. This system, which incorporates a number of interesting departures from the previous carrier art, is now being manufactured in considerable quantities to meet increased traffic requirements."
"This paper describes the circuits, performance, and equipment features of the terminals of a new 12-channel carrier system for application to existing toll cables. The 12-channel group of terminal apparatus has been designed also to form a basic part of the terminals of other carrier systems now under development, such as the type-J system for open wire and the coaxial system."
"SINCE the channel selecting filters used at the terminals of the 12-channel cable carrier system are the principal filters in the system this paper is concerned primarily with these filters. Their importance is evident from the fact that they represent over one-third of the cost of the system terminals."
"CROSSTALK and noise are important factors in cable carrier transmission as outlined in the paper “A Carrier Telephone System for Toll Cables” by Messrs. C. W. Green and E. I. Green. Crosstalk and noise limit the number of carrier channels which can be utilized in any one cable, not only by limiting the number of channels which can be placed on a single pair, but by limiting the number of pairs which can be used. Noise also controls the transmission loss which can be permitted between repeaters. Without the crosstalk and noise reduction measures described in this paper, the number of carrier channels per cable would be so few and the spacing between repeaters so short, that the type-K carrier system would be impracticable."
"DIFFERENTIAL relaying is the commonly accepted means of protecting large power transformers, a-c generators, and station bus systems against internal faults.1 The methods and circuits employed in various instances, while differing in detail, are all fundamentally the same in basic principle. Briefly speaking, this principle consists in continuously comparing in each phase the current entering the protected equipment with that leaving. As illustrated in the generalized single-line diagram figure 1, the comparison is made by means of current transformers of suitable ratios placed in all the power circuits connecting with the protected equipment. If current transformation takes place within the equipment as in the case of a power transformer, the ratios of the current transformers placed in the various circuits are chosen to have relative values corresponding to the transformation ratios so that the current transformer secondary currents may be compared on a 1:1 basis. The secondary windings of all the current transformers in each phase are connected in parallel with each other to a special kind of current relay usually called a “differential” relay. The current transformers are all connected in the same polarity with respect to the direction of the protected zone so that currents entering and leaving the protected zone will be represented in the secondary circuit by currents of opposite polarities. Normally, with sound equipment these positive and negative components will be equal, except for negligible exciting currents, and their algebraic sum which by the connection is applied to the relay coil will be essentially zero. When a fault occurs within the protected zone, however, the balance is upset and a difference current proportional to the fault current flows in the coil of the relay, causing it to operate and trip circuit breakers in all the connecting circuits, removing the faulted equipment from service."
"CURRENT-LIMITING reactors are so detrimental to the normal operation of an electric system, and yet such a valuable contribution to its safety during short circuits, that it is very much worth while to try again and again to devise schemes which will use the ability of reactance to limit fault current and yet minimize the inevitable increase in regulation. With this in view, this paper reviews some well-known schemes of reactor application."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by Philip Sporn and Charles A. Muller published on pages 118–24 of this volume (March section), and presented for oral discussion at the relays and reactors session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1938."
"Discussion of a paper by Leslie N. Crichton published on pages 1261–7 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (October 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the relays and reactors session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by V. M. Montsinger published on pages 39–44 of this volume (January section), and presented for oral discussion at the relays and reactors session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by W. G. Roman published on pages 819–22 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (July 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the lightning protection session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by E. M. Hunter published on pages 11–18 of this volume (January section), and presented for oral discussion at the lightning protection section of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1938."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by E. L. Harder, B. E. Lenehan, and S. L. Goldsborough published on pages 5–10 of this volume (January section), and presented for oral discussion at the relays and reactors session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by A. H. Beiler published on pages 19–24 of this volume (January section), and presented for oral discussion at the electronics session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 25, 1938."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"As long ago as 1882 D'Arsonval predicted that electricity would be used widely in the treatment of disease. Today that prediction has been fulfilled — indeed, exceeded — because electricity now plays a highly important part not only in the treatment of disease but also in its detection and diagnosis. A few of the manifold electromedical applications are described here."
"Colored light usually is obtainable from incandescent lamps only by means of some special filtering material, at relatively low efficiency. Now a new type of lamp, which is tubular in shape and contains a powder that becomes fluorescent in the presence of ultraviolet radiation, produces white light similar in character to daylight, as well as monochromatic light, at efficiencies much larger than those ordinarily associated with incandescent lamps."
"Coaxial cables were developed originally to provide large groups of telephone channels, but their wide frequency range has led to experiments with the transmission of signals for television. High-quality signal generating and receiving equipment was used to send 240-line motion-picture images from New York to Philadelphia, as described in this article; distortion introduced by the wire-line circuits could be made so small as to be inappreciable."
"By cultivating a practical point of view toward today's difficult situation the young engineer may gain experience at the very outset that will assist him in solving problems likely to recur again and again throughout his entire professional career"
"The annual summer convention of the Institute to be held in Washington, D. C., June 20–24, 1938, offers many attractive features. The nation's capital is the center of scenic and historical interest and the summer convention committee has taken full cognizance of this fact in arranging an excellent program of trips, sports, and entertainment, the details of which were announced in Electrical Engineering for May 1938, pages 221–4. Convention headquarters will be in the Mayflower Hotel."
"General arrangements for the 1938 AIEE Pacific Coast convention to be held in Portland, Ore., are now practically complete, according to General Chairman E. F. Pearson. The Multnomah Hotel has been selected as convention headquarters. As previously announced, the dates for this convention, August 9–12, have been selected to encourage members and their friends to combine their vacation trips with attendance at the convention."
"The 11th annual conference of Student Branches of the AIEE North Central District, held at the University of Nebraska, Lincoln, April 22–23, attracted 123 students in electrical engineering, AIEE Section and District officers, and guests. Three guests from Kansas State College, Manhattan (AIEE South West District) were registered and representatives were sent from all of the nine Branches in the district:"
"The annual meeting of the executive committee of the Institute's North West District was held at Seattle, Washington, on April 19, 1938. The following members were present:"
"THE committee on award of Institute prizes has announced the award of three national prizes for papers presented during the calendar year 1937. In two classifications, because of the small number of eligible papers, no awards were made. Presentation of the prizes will be made during the AIEE summer convention at Washington, D. C., June 20–24, 1938. The committee consists of H. S. Osborne (A '10, F'21) chairman, J. W. Barker (M'26, F'30) W. B. Kouwenhoven (A'06, F'34) and I. Melville Stein (A'18, M'27)."
"November 28–30 has been chosen as the time for the AIEE Southern District meeting to be held this year at Miami, Fla. This is one of the actions taken by the District meeting committee when it met April 21 in Jacksonville to discuss preliminary plans."
"THE following constitutes the annual report on Institute Section and Branch activities for the fiscal year which ended April 30, 1938. Similar information for three preceding fiscal years appeared in Electrical Engineering for June 1937, pages 762–5; June 1936, pages 752–4; and 1935, pages 674–5."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Special attention is directed to the fact that the names of Institute members who are considered eligible for the AIEE Lamme Medal, to be awarded early in 1939, may be submitted by any member in accordance with Section 1 of Article VI of the by-laws of the Lamme Medal committee, as quoted in the following:"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"CONTRIBUTIONS to these columns are invited from Institute members and subscribers. They should be concise and may deal with technica 1 papers, articles published in previous issues, or other subjects of some general interest and professional importance. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING will endeavor to publish as many letters as possible, but of necessity reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part, or reject them entirely."
"It has been known for a long time that the nonlinear relation between the flux and the magnetizing current in an iron-core transformer or choke coil results in the formation of harmonics in the magnetizing current. The magnitude of these harmonics can be obtained approximately by means of graphical methods. The following mathematical solution is, I believe, new."
"The method generally employed for determining the axial and radial components of the magnetic force of a one-layer cylindrical solenoid makes use of the vector potential. While no inherent difficulties are connected with this, the calculations nevertheless are lengthy. The method here described is simpler, as it presupposes only Ampere's law. It is known that this law, which is usually given in the form"
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"THE HISTORIC Shoshone-Denver transmission line of the Public Service Company of Colorado connects the Shoshone Hydro Plant with Denver and serves important loads in the Leadville and Idaho Springs districts in Colorado (figure 1). The line traverses mountainous country for most of its length, crosses the Continental Divide three times (figure 2), and is badly exposed to lightning. The design and construction work on the line was begun in 1906 and 1907, making this line the pioneer in its voltage class. Conductor spacing and tower clearances are very close in comparison with modern standards, and although progressive improvements have been made, the operating record of the line shows an average of 60 tripouts per year, of which 42 are chargeable to lightning."
"TWO YEARS ago, the authors of this paper described to the AIEE a co-operative investigation by the Boston Edison Company, the Commonwealth Edison Company of Chicago, the Detroit Edison Company, the Georgia Power Company, and the General Electric Company, having as its object the determination of data relative to lightning discharge currents through distribution lightning arresters. At that time the results were based upon records obtained over a 13-month period from August 1934 to August 1935, inclusive. The object of this paper is to present the results from August 1934 to September 1937."
"THE Pittsburgh Railways Company has purchased 201 cars of the Presidents' Conference Committee type. By the middle of November 1937, there had been delivered and placed in service 140 of these cars. The new vehicles have exceeded our expectations with respect to their mechanical performance, their reception by employees, and the approval given them by the public."
"THE Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company operates a co-ordinated urban transportation system serving the City of Philadelphia and adjacent suburban communities. The system is comprised of surface car, subway-elevated, motor bus, and trackless trolley lines. Motor-bus operation was started in September 1923, with 21 double-deck mechanical-drive busses of the “Fifth Avenue” type. At the present time a total of 323 busses are operated 12 million miles annually, and produce approximately nine per cent of the system passenger revenue. The busses operated include 138 33-passenger single-deck and 161 71-passenger double-deck gas-electric-drive busses purchased during 1925 and 1926. The remaining 24 vehicles are small-capacity 21-to-25-passenger busses, that have been purchased during the past four years."
"IN MOST cities there are enough automobiles to carry all of the citizens at one time. Yet, there is still a great need for public carriers as a part of city life, and this need increases relatively with increase in size of cities. People pay with great enthusiasm for modern automobiles because they satisfy a desire for new style, more power, greater comfort, and higher speed. Public transportation in its service must recognize these desires."
"The introduction of electron tubes and power saturable reactors for the control of theater and mobile lighting has made possible the design and construction of lighting control equipment of greater efficiency and flexibility than was possible with the older methods of control. This paper describes some of the new equipment, systems, and practices. Several control systems for the pilot controller, the individual, and master units are described and illustrated. The basis for the intensity scale for the control units in the pilot controller is given."
"This paper describes the characteristics of new thyratron circuits which have been developed for the control of direct current motors. By means of these circuits it is possible to hold constant motor speed, constant armature voltage, or constant relative speed between two systems. It is also possible to hold constant either an alternating or direct current voltage which is dependent on the speed or position of the armature of a direct current motor."
"IN THE EARLY years of the electrical industry there was no acceptable a-c motor. After the development of the induction motor and the synchronous motor two machines were available which are unsurpassed in simplicity, reliability, and economy. These motors are, however, both inherently constant speed machines. In later years, a variety of a-c motors have been developed and a number of these have had adjustable or variable speed characteristics. There is, however, as yet, no adjustable-speed a-c motor so flexible as the Ward-Leonard combination, and there is still room for much improvement in adjustable speed a-c motors."
"ON THIS and the following three pages appear discussions submitted for publication, and approved by the technical committees, on previously published papers presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24–28, 1938. Authors' closures, where they have been submitted, will be found at the end of the discussion on their respective papers."
"Discussion of a paper by C. F. Hirshfeld published on pages 61–6, of this volume (February section) and presented for oral discussion at the modern electric vehicles session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by K. E. Gould published on pages 1159–64 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (September 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the communications session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24–28, 1938."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by H. J. Fisher, M. L. Almquist, and R. H. Mills published on pages 25–33 of this volume (January section) and presented for oral discussion at the communications session the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24–28, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by L. F. Woodruff published on pages 78–87 of this volume (February section), and presented for oral discussion at the communications session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 24–28, 1938."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"IN presenting this talk, I am fulfilling a provision in the constitution of the Institute which says that the president “… shall deliver an address at an annual convention.” At the outset I want to express for the other officers and directors, and for myself, appreciation and gratitude for the enormous amount of voluntary effort put forth by the members on behalf of the Institute. I want especially to commend Mr. Henline and his associates on the headquarters staff for their effective and constructive work during the past year, and for the gracious manner in which they have met the demands of officers and members alike."
"THE ENGINEER of the future is going to make tremendous strides in this matter of studying human beings and when he does so he will become the industrial manager of the world. This subject of management is in reality a branch of engineering, at least in this country where in the last 40 years engineering has been always developing work which has been managed exclusively by engineers. Management is one of the great opportunities lying before the young engineering man; and some of the fields of management are so highly developed that we can give courses and write textbooks about them…."
"Data gathered by the Bureau of Labor Statistics are used by the author in this article to support his statement that “the economic status of the engineer is largely a matter determined by each individual engineer according to his particular personal qualifications and the relations these bear to the work he does and to the personalities of those persons with whom and by whom he is employed.”"
"APAPER by H. von Conrady entitled “Investigation of the Voltage distribution in the welding arc,” which was published in Elektroschweissung (volume 8, June 1937, pages 101–06; July 1937, pages 125–28) recently has been translated by Herman J. Munz and is being distributed by the welding research committee of The Engineering Foundation. The author (1) describes apparatus devised as a part of a research subject under investigation at the experimental station for welding technique of the Technical University of Berlin, Germany, for measuring the voltage drop in welding arcs carrying currents as large as 1,000 amperes; and (2) presents results of tests made with that apparatus."
"White fluorescent high-voltage tubing was used to illuminate this glass dance floor. The attractive design of a marine compass was simulated by coating the underside of the glass slabs with colored translucent paint"
"One improvement was the introduction of a method of making fluorescent materials adhere to the interior walls of the tubing. With this construction the ultraviolet radiations impinged directly upon the material to be activated, and the reflection of the radiations by the interior surface of the tubing and their absorption by the glass had no effect upon the efficiency of the tube."
"LIBRARIES are universally recognized to be essential to modern civilization. In a world that gets most of its learning through the printed word, storehouses of print are a vital necessity. In this regard engineering differs in no way from the other learned professions. Whenever we wish to extend our knowledge beyond our immediate environment, we turn directly to a library. Obviously, libraries are necessary elements of our colleges and universities. Two practical questions that arise are: How shall the library be formed, and how shall it be used?"
"Fifty years' progress in electric locomotives was shown recently to the public by the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad. Marking delivery of the first of six new streamlined single-phase locomotives for express passenger service, shown in an accompanying illustration, a train of eight locomotives representing freight and passenger types built from 1888 to 1938 was exhibited at various points on the system."
"AS announced in previous issues, the 1938 Pacific Coast convention of the AIEE will be held in Portland, Ore., August 9–12. At this time the scenic beauty of Oregon is usually at its best, and these dates have been selected to afford members and their guests the opportunity to combine vacation trips with attendance at the convention. The program includes six technical sessions, two student sessions, a golf tournament on the beautiful scenic course of the Oswego Lake Country Club, interesting inspection trips, and a variety of entertainment. Convention headquarters will be in the Multnomah Hotel."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"APROFITABLE and especially pleasant period was enjoyed by the 400-odd persons who attended the AIEE North Eastern District meeting at Lenox, Mass., May 18–20. Ideal is the only word adequately describing the housing, meeting, and other facilities provided by the local meeting committee, which arranged with the management of the Curtis Hotel to advance the date of seasonal opening to accommodate the meeting and, in effect, to turn over the entire facilities of the spacious building to those attending."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., May 26, 1938."
"AT THE annual meeting of the AIEE, held in Washington, D. C., during the Institute's recent summer convention, the report of the committee of tellers on the election of new officers to serve during the year beginning August 1, 1938, was presented. In addition to reporting the results of the election, the committee of tellers also reported the enactment of all the proposed amendments to the AIEE constitution pertaining to admission to the grade of Fellow, which were submitted to the membership for ballot earlier this year. The new amendments become effective 30 days after the annual meeting, or on July 21, 1938."
"The 12th annual Student Branch conference of the South West District of the AIEE, held at Kansas State College, Manhattan, May 6–7, was one of the largest ever held in the District, from the standpoint of attendance. Fourteen student Branches from the following schools were represented:"
"At a meeting of the transformer subcommittee of the AIEE committee on electrical machinery held May 20, 1938, at Lenox, Mass., during the recent AIEE North Eastern District meeting, the proposed American Standard on transformers, regulators, and related matters was discussed. I. W. Gross, chairman of the subcommittee has made available the following report of actions taken."
"THE board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its 54th annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1938. A general balance sheet showing the condition of the Institute's finances on April 30, 1938, together with other detailed financial statements, is included herein. This report contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in Electrical Engineering."
"District prizes for AIEE papers as announced by five Districts to date include six awards of $25 each, together with appropriate certificates, for initial and Branch papers, and one certificate for best paper. Other District awards will be announced later, as the information becomes available. The awards are for papers presented during 1937, except for Branch papers which may be included in the period from January 1, 1937, to June 30, 1938. Henceforth, according to the revised rules adopted early in 1937, Branch paper prizes will be awarded on the basis of the academic year from July 1 to June 30."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"On April 28, 1938, a total of 225 students from engineering colleges of metropolitan New York visited the Newark (N. J.) College of Engineering, which was host to the 12th annual AIEE New York City District student convention. Student Branches at the following institutions participated:"
"Under this provocative heading the commerce and industry committee of the Seventh International Management Congress calls attention to the responsibilities of management to review at a great international gathering such problems as “Management's Responsibilities to Society,” “The Continuance of Free Enterprise,” “Common Ground for Labor and Management,” “Labor's Aims and Responsibilities,” “Management's Aims and Responsibilities,” and “The Public's Concern in Industrial Harmony” (EE, Nov. '37, p. 1409)."
"The author has been a member of the Institute for 20 years and a casual reader of the JOURNAL and its successor ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING during that time; and has been most pleased with the change in contents and arrangement that has taken place during the past few years. It is true that the Institute is a professional society, and that the monthly publication should be devoted primarily to the details of electrical research and development. But for every designing or research engineer in the membership there are probably 100 practicing engineers of one kind or another¿sales engineers, plant engineers, and management engineers. The more popular and simpler written articles prove especially interesting to this latter group; and very helpful also. He believes that ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING is now a magazine that is proving useful and stimulating to all of us."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Among the new books received at the Engineering Society Library, New York recently are the following which have been selected because of their possible interest to the electrical engineer. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented gratis by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following outlines, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"THIS PAPER describes an oil circuit breaker built to the following specifications"
"Although most commercial telegraph trunk circuits have been operated by printing telegraph methods for some years, Morse operation has been generally adhered to on way wires. Arrangements for operating way wires by printing telegraph have been developed, and are described. These include a polar simplex system, a neutral way-wire system, a code calling bell arrangement, and a multistation customers' printer circuit that provides secrecy by preventing the connection of more than one customer's printer to the line at a time. The paper also describes a new single-line repeater arranged to repeat polar as well as neutral signals, and a “dotter” for transmitting uniform test signals."
"A new type of lead-in structure for vacuum-, gas-, or oil-tight chambers is described in which porcelain bushings are sealed to metal by means of a glass which serves as a bonding agency. The method of assembly is extremely simple, requiring no skilled workmen or elaborate equipment. Some of the features and some of the places where the seal is being applied are discussed."
"This paper describes a stabilized amplifier with an over-all amplification ratio that remains essentially constant in magnitude and phase for all changes in tube characteristics, line-voltage variations, and output load variations to be expected during normal operation. This stability is obtained by the introduction of two stabilizing circuits which act independently, yet are complementary when used together. During a period of eight weeks' use two such amplifiers with their associated indicating instruments maintained their original calibration within two-tenths per cent of full scale without readjustment."
"THERE ARE a number of public utilities that have instituted programs for curtailing and in some cases completely eliminating the d-c power supply to concentrated load areas. The change from d-c to a-c power supply for elevators in the affected areas requires the substitution of a-c elevator equipment or the use of converters to supply d-c to the existing elevator equipment. Elevators may be operated equally well from either alternating current or direct current, so the choice is dependent upon the cost of the change-over."
"IN SELECTING subjects for educational treatment by motion pictures at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, one of those favored was that of traveling waves on transmission lines. Reasons for the selection included the mathematical complexity of the subject and the difficulty of teaching it without spending an undue amount of time, and the fact that the phenomena which are involved are functions of both time and distance, and hence difficult to illustrate or visualize by ordinary methods. Experience in the use of the films with classes has shown that students' general understanding and appreciation of the subject are indeed greatly improved by viewing the motion pictures. The films which have been prepared have been and are now available in both the 16- and the 35-millimeter widths for free loan to other technical schools and associations."
"Discussion of a paper by A. R. Miller and W. S. Weil, Jr., published on pages 1268–76 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (October 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by Victor Siegfried published on pages 1285–9 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (October 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by C. F. Wagner published on pages 1385–95 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (November 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by E. W. Schilling and R. W. Koopman published on pages 1487–91 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (December 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the electrical machinery session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion of a paper by L. F. Blume and L. V. Bewley published on pages 1464–75 of volume 56, 1937, AIEE TRANSACTIONS (December 1937 issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING) and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by J. O'R. Coleman and A. H. Schirmer published on pages 131–40 of this volume (March section) and presented for oral discussion at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by Philip Sporn and J. T. Lusignan, Jr., presented at the power transmission session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 27, 1938, and published on pages 91–101 of this volume (February section)."
"Discussion and author's closure of a paper by D. W. Ver Planck published on pages 45–9 of this volume (January section) and presented for oral discussion at the instruments and measurements session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 26, 1938."
"Discussion and authors' closure of a paper by H. P. Kuehni and R. G. Lorraine published on pages 67–73 of this volume (February section) and presented for oral discussion at the instruments and measurements session of the winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 26, 1938."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Fifty years have passed since those memorable researches of the young German physicist, Heinrich Rudolph Hertz, which have come to be regarded as the starting point of radio. For it was he who first detected, and measured, electromagnetic waves in space — waves which had been predicted, it is true, but which had never before been observed. It is not to be claimed, of course, that the radio art would have failed to be born were it not for his genius, for we know that almost simultaneously the experiments of Lodge in England were pointing with certainty to the same discoveries, and the speculations of others were revolving around the possibility of generating electric waves. Yet it was the remarkably clear vision of Hertz, combined with his consummate persistence and skill, that won for him the prize and justly enshrined his name among the immortal men of science."
"Transmitters and receivers for use at subscribers' telephone stations have been designed which not only materially improve transmission but also simplify manufacture and facilitate maintenance. This paper discusses these improvements and describes some of the new design technique employed in their development."
"The new telephone instruments now being introduced by the Bell System result in an outstanding improvement in transmission performance in service. The evidence for this, as obtained by comprehensive laboratory and field tests, is presented here together with a discussion of the factors responsible for this superior performance and of the consideration involved in its appraisal."
"The development of spectroscopy is traced through Newton, Fraunhofer and Kirchoff to Hartley, Pollock and Leonard, and De Gramont who, in the period 1880–1920, applied the spectroscope to chemical analysis. It is shown that modern quantitative spectrochemical analysis began with the comparison standard method of Meggers in 1922, and developments since that time are discussed. The organization and functioning of the spectrochemical unit of the analytical group at the Bell Telephone Laboratories is described, and a number of examples of applications to telephone problems are given."
"A motion picture camera used in taking 4000 pictures per second is described. Applications of high speed motion picture photography to a variety of problems associated with the design of telephone apparatus are given. The resulting pictures in “slow motion” permit convenient and accurate analysis of space-time relationships of mechanical parts in motion otherwise too rapid to be perceived because of their transient nature. This work has related to the development of relays, switches, clutches, ringers, dials, coin collector mechanisms, contact conditions, materials testing, etc. It has been applied to studies of noise reduction in mechanisms and to research problems associated with the production of speech by the vocal cords."
"An instrument which makes a Fourier Series Analysis of a function by optical means has recently been completed. The function to be analyzed is supplied in the form of a variation in the density or in the width of the transparent portion of a photographic film. The analysis is performed by a direct evaluation of the integrals which form the coefficients in a Fourier Series, and the results are theoretically exact in the sense that the measurement of each harmonic is independent of the other harmonics which may be present in the function. The operation of the instrument is largely automatic, and is rapid enough so that 30 harmonics can be measured in about a minute and a half.1"
"The first part of this article is a descriptive discussion of magnetic shielding in general. Formulae are then given for the calculation of shielding efficiency of cylindrical shells for steady and alternating magnetic fields. By means of these formulae the shielding efficiency for various types of cylindrical shields has been calculated for a steady magnetic field. The second part of the article contains experimental information on various types of transformer shields. This information supplements the theory in connection with factors which would be very laborious to treat theoretically. The theory and the experimental data are coordinated in such a manner that the shielding efficiency of a particular shield can be calculated with an accuracy which is sufficient for practical purposes."
"The reports which have been made on the progress in television development increase the expectation that the broadcasting of visual programs witJ soon be realized. In anticipation of that result, the Ben Laboratories has been engaged for some time in the development of wire line circuits for transmitting television signals between studios and broadcasting transmitters, or between cities, as may some day be required if television follows in the footsteps of sound program broadcasting."
"The author presents a mathematical consideration of the conditions which insure constant frequency of the vacuum tube oscillator under changes of electrode potentials or of the cathode temperature. It has already been shown that the grid and plate resistances may enter into the determination of the frequency. The problem is treated here in the manner suggested in the recent studies of feedback amplifiers. The conditions necessary for stability are developed in terms which are independent of particular circuit configurations and are applicable to certain dissipative circuits as well as to purely reactive systems."
"That streams of electrons possess the properties of beams of waves was discovered early in 1927 in a large industrial laboratory in the midst of a great city, and in a small university laboratory overlooking a cold and desolate sea. The coincidence seems the more striking when one remembers that facilities for making this discovery had been in constant use in laboratories throughout the world for more than a quarter of a century. And yet the coincidence was not, in fact, in any way remarkable. Discoveries in physics are made when the time for making them is ripe, and not before; the stage is set, the time is ripe and the event occurs--more often than not at widely separated places at almost the same moment."
"Stability of Two-Meter Waves.1 CHARLES R. BURROWS, A. DECINO and LOYD E. HUNT. The continuous records of the field strength received over a 60-kilometer path on a frequency of 150 megacycles for the year 1936 are analyzed. Preliminary comparison with other paths of the same length indicate that the magnitude of the recorded variations of the signals may be typical of paths of this length."
"Transmission measurements on telephone circuits have long been recognized as essential aids in the furnishing of good service. Recent development work has produced new testing methods and apparatus which greatly simplify and expedite transmission measuring. This paper gives a brief description of the existing and the new arrangements."
"This paper calls attention to the practical value of a more extended use of the impedance concept. It brings out a certain underlying unity in what otherwise appear diverse physical phenomena. Although an attempt has been made to trace the history of the concept of “impedance” and many interesting early suggestions have been found, reference to these lies beyond the scope of this paper. Apparently, Sir Oliver Lodge was the first to use the word “impedance,” but the concept has been developed gradually as circumstances demanded through the efforts of countless workers. The main body of the paper is divided into three parts: Part I, dealing with the exposition of the impedance idea as applied to different types of physical phenomena; Part II, in which the general formulæ are deduced for reflection and transmission coefficients; Part III, presenting some special applications illustrating the practical utility of the foregoing manner of thought."
"The problem of the potential distribution, current, and electron transit time resulting from the perpendicular injection of electrons into the space between parallel planes is considered. The electrons are assumed to be injected uniformly with velocities corresponding to the potential of the plane through which they are injected. Consideration of all possible solutions of the basic equation shows that four general types of potential distribution are possible. Curves are given which enable the easy calculation of transmitted current and transit time and show the complete potential distribution for any concrete example. The case for current injected through both planes is also considered. The complete mathematical treatment is given in the appendix."
"A new 12-channel carrier telephone system for existing cables is described. This system, which incorporates a number of interesting departures from the previous carrier art, is now being manufactured in considerable quantities to meet increased traffic requirements."
"This paper describes the circuits, performance and equipment features of the terminals of a new 12-channel carrier system for application to existing toll cables. The 12-channel group of terminal apparatus has been designed also to form a basic part of the terminals of other carrier systems now under development, such as the type J system for open wire and the coaxial system."
"Since the channel selecting filters used at the terminals of the twelve-channel cable carrier system are the principal filters in the system this paper is concerned primarily with these. Their importance is evident from the fact that they represent over one-third of the cost of the system terminals."
"Crosstalk and noise are important factors in cable carrier transmission as outlined in the paper “A Carrier Telephone System for Toll Cables” by Messrs. C. W. Green and E. I. Green. Crosstalk and noise limit the number of carrier channels which can be utilized in anyone cable, not only by limiting the number of channels which can be placed on a single pair, but by limiting the number of pairs which can be used. Noise also. controls the transmission loss which can be permitted between repeaters. Without the crosstalk and noise reduction measures described in this paper, the number of carrier channels per cable would be so few and the spacing between repeaters so short, that the type K carrier system would be impracticable."
"The single channel carrier telephone system described in the following paper is designated the Type H. It is characterized by several new features, making it applicable not only to the needs of telephone companies but also to those of railroads, power systems and oil companies. It replaces the Type D single channel carrier system, more than 500 of which are now in operation in the Bell System, and, in addition because of its lower cost is applicable to shorter distances. It therefore marks another step in extending the use of carrier. Reduction in size and provision for operating on a-c supply simplify its installation, and its portability makes it well suited to provide emergency circuits."
"Directional Ferrtmzagnetic Properties of Metals.1 R. M. BOZORTH. This is a review of the magnetic properties of single crystals of iron, cobalt and nickel and their alloys with each other. After a general introduction and a description of recently developed technique some new results are described which show for the first time that such crystals are anisotropic in low as well as in high fields. The amount of anisotropy is expressed usually by one “anisotropy constant” but sometimes a second constant is necessary. These constants vary with composition and temperature and their values are shown in tables and curves. When the constants are small the material is especially sensitive to strain and heat-treatment; this condition applies to some of the iron-nickel alloys (permalloys), Small amounts of impurities affect the magnetic properties in low fields. By careful purification and heat-treatment several crystals have been made which have permeabilities of over 1,000,000."
"Results of an ultra-short-wave fading study are here reported. Transmission was carried out in the range of 1.6 to 5.0 meters, over a 70 mile (112.6 kilometer) ocean path, on 106 days during a period of two years. Both horizontal and vertical polarizations were used and during part of the time a 6-megacycle amplitude, 120-cycle, frequency modulated transmission was added, for the cathode-ray tube observation of the frequency characteristics of the radio path. On 45 mornings records were taken, on vertically polarized radiations, during the flight period of the Mitchel Field Weather Bureau plane. Fading was found present practically all of the time. Amplitude changes up to 40 db and fading rates up to 5 fades per minute were found. Simultaneous transmission of the same wave in two polarizations, and of two waves of different wave-length in the same polarization showed that the horizontally polarized component was practically always, and the shorter wave-length one was usually the worse fader of the pair. The greater part of the time there was no correlation between the fading of these radiation pairs; occasionally, however, and for the slow, smooth amplitude, undulating type of fading, coincidence was observed. The frequency sweep patterns showed multiple signal components to be present, with various degrees of relative phase retardation. A tentative explanation is proposed for these phenomena. This theory assumes the presence of a refracted-diffracted signal component, transmitted along the earth's surface and calculable in the manner of Wwedensky, Van der Pol and Gray, and one or more signal components reflected from air mass boundaries. The airplane results are shown to be in reasonable agreement with the frequency sweep observations. Boundary heights from 5.5 kilometers down to 1.9 kilometers are measured; below 1.9 kilometers other boundaries are indicated. The receiver band, flat over two megacycles, sets the low height limit of resolution of reflecting boundaries at 1.9 kilometers. Most of the boundaries are at the lower heights."
"The art of controlling the amplitude range of telephone signals involves recognition of certain characteristics in addition to those used to specify the performance of ordinary transducers. Fundamentally, three kinds of characteristics are necessary to distinguish different range control devices. They are (1) the steady-state input-output characteristics, (2) the time actions, and (3) the range over which they function. In some cases, several secondary characteristics may be of interest, but they need not be considered in determining to which class a particular device belongs. This paper discusses and classifies these characteristics."
"This paper describes a family of devices which automatically respond to signals and control the circuit amplification in such a way as to improve transmission. Their general characteristics are outlined, their differences explained, and some of their applications are listed."
"The theory of the exponential transmission line is developed. It is found to be a high pass, impedance transforming filter. The cutoff frequency depends upon the rate of taper. The deviation of the exponential line from an ideal impedance transformer may be decreased by an order of magnitude by shunting the low impedance end with an inductance and inserting a capacitance in series with the high impedance end. The magnitudes of these reactances are equal to the impedance level at their respective ends of the line at the cutoff frequency. For a two-to-one impedance transformer the line is 0.0551 wave-lengths long at the cutoff frequency. For a four-to-one impedance transformer the line is 0.1102 wave-lengths long at the cutoff frequency, etc. The results have been verified experimentally. Practical lines 50 meters and 15 meters long have been constructed which transform from 600 to 300 ohms over the frequency range from 4 to 30 mc. with deviations from the ideal that are small compared with the deviations from the ideal of commercial transmission lines, either two-wire or concentric. When an exponential line is used as a dissipative load of known impedance instead of a uniform line it is possible to approach more nearly the ideal of constant heat dissipation per unit length. This makes it possible to use a shorter line."
"A new type of constant frequency oscillator of very high stability is presented. The frequency controlling resonant element is used as one arm of a Wheatstone resistance bridge. Kept in balance automatically by a thermally controlled arm, this bridge provides constancy of output amplitude, purity of wave form, and stabilization against fluctuations in power supply or changes in circuit elements. A simple one-tube circuit has operated consistently with no short-time frequency variations greater than ± 2 parts in 108. Convenient means are provided for making precision adjustments over a narrow range of frequencies to compensate for long-time aging effects. Description of the circuit is followed by a brief linear analysis and an account of experimental results. Operating records are given for a 100 kc. oscillator."
"The theoretical analysis of the effect of space charge upon the “shot noise” in a planar diode shows that for practically all operating conditions, the tube noise is equivalent to the thermal resistance noise of the plate resistance at 0.644 times the cathode temperature. Noise in diodes of other than planar shapes is discussed and it is concluded that the same relation holds. It is shown that transit time produces the same high frequency modification for both the thermal and shot tube noise, and that the tube noise is decreased by transit time."
"During the past few years the use of teletypewriters has become quite extensive in the Bell System. Simpler and cheaper machines have recently been made available for meeting the simpler service requirements and attachments have been designed to provide additional features for meeting more complex service requirements. This article discusses the fundamental principles and various features of the teletypewriter machines now in common use and explains the more important factors which have been controlling in their development."
"This article discusses the variation of dielectric constant and dielectric loss in the radio and power frequency range with the object of giving a simple picture of the type of mechanism which is able to produce anomalous dispersion in this range of frequencies. Some of the general characteristics of anomalous dispersion can be demonstrated as well on a simple and arbitrary model of the structure of dielectrics as on the more complex ones which correspond more closely to the actual structure of dielectrics. Such a derivation is given here in order to indicate the significance of the different factors which occur in the formulæ which have been proposed to account for the variation of dielectric constant and dielectric loss with frequency. This enables a distinction to be made conveniently between the general characteristics which are shared by several types of dielectric polarization and the special characteristics which are peculiar to a restricted class of polarizations or to a particular kind of polarization."
"Electron Microscope Studies of Thoriated Tungsten.1 ARTHUR J. AHEARN and JOSEPH A. BECKER. Many past experiments have shown that the thermionic activity of a thoriated tungsten filament is determined by the concentration of thorium on its surface. This concentration is in turn determined by the rate of arrival and rate of evaporation of thorium. Typical published values of these rates are given in Fig. 1. An electron microscope used to obtain electron images of thoriated tungsten ribbons is described. Comparison with photomicrographs shows that the active and inactive patches composing an electron image agree in size, shape and number with the exposed grains of the tungsten. The electron microscope shows that thorium comes to the surface in “eruptions” at a relatively small number of randomly located points. From a comparison of photomicrographs showing thoria globules and electron images of thorium eruptions, it is deduced that all the thorium in a globule comes to the surface when an eruption occurs. Factors such as a high temperature flash and sudden heating and cooling of the filament affect the frequency of eruptions. Thorium eruptions are the only observed manner in which thorium arrives at the filament surface. They are repeatedly observed in the early stages of thoriation. Eruptions are not observed in the later stages of thoriation where conditions are unfavorable for their observance. Electron images of a Pintsch single crystal filament reveal alternate active and inactive bands parallel to the filament axis. Thorium eruptions occur only on the active bands. With a polycrystalline ribbon the surface migration of thorium from the eruption centers is isotropic; with a single crystal ribbon there is a strongly preferred direction of migration. X-ray analysis shows that the surface is a (211) plane and that the preferred direction of migration agrees with the (111) direction in this plane. During the process of thoriating a filament the relative emissions from different grains change by substantial amounts; in many cases the change is so great that the relative emissions are reversed. Measurements of work function differences between grains gave values ranging up to 0.6 volt."
"By spacing a wire and its mate closer than has been the usual custom, and thus obtaining a greater separation between pairs on open wire telephone lines, inductive interference can be diminished and higher carrier frequencies transmitted, thus increasing the message carrying capacity. The hazard of the wires swinging into contact in the wind is controlling in the selection of a minimum spacing. This article gives the results of studies made to determine the effect of natural winds on variously spaced and arranged wires suspended in accordance with telephone practice."
"The use of equalizing structures to compensate for the variation in the phase and attenuation characteristics of transmission lines and other pieces of apparatus is well known in the communication art. Ordinarily, of course, an equalizer has a definite characteristic fixed by the apparatus with which it is to be associated. It may happen, however, that the characteristics demanded of the equalizer cannot be prescribed in advance, either because the characteristics of the associated apparatus are not known with sufficient precision, or because they vary with time. Examples are found in the equalization of transmission lines the exact lengths of which are unknown, or the characteristics of which may be affected by changes in temperature and humidity."
"The telephone transmitter serves to convert sound waves into their electrical facsimile; but in performing this primary function the transmitter also acts as an amplifier. Under some conditions the electrical power output of a transmitter may be more than a thousand times as great as the acoustic power activating it. Part of this greatly augmented power is dissipated in the circuit of the telephone set; part is impressed upon the telephone line, whence it is propagated on to the distant listener; and part finds its way into the receiver of the same set, where it is reconverted into sound waves. Speech or noise, picked up by the transmitter and reproduced by the receiver of the same set, is caned sidetone."
"“The Time Factor in Telephone Transmission” by O. B. Blackwell (B. S. T. J. January 1932) deals with a number of problems which arise in connection with telephone circuits having long transmission times. This paper discusses one such effect, the occurrence of lockout caused by the echo suppressors involved in a long telephone connection. The occurrence of lockout is shown to cause an increase in repetition rate, which is ordinarily small for circuits as now used commercially. The increase in repetition rate is approximately proportional to the number of lockouts occurring and to their mean duration, or to the per cent of time locked out. The expected number of lockouts is shown to depend upon the characteristic time intervals of conversational speech, the relay hangovers, the delay of the circuit and location of the echo suppressors with respect to the ends of the circuit. Subject to certain restrictions, the expected number of lockouts increases with the delay included between the echo suppressors, and is nearly independent of the delays between the suppressors and the circuit terminals. The mean duration of lockouts is shown to be proportional to the relay hangovers."
"Two-way conversation is arbitrarily defined in terms of vocal intervals and the pauses between them. These quantities, as determined by the presence or absence of speech energy, have been measured from continuous oscillograms of calls on a New York-Chicago telephone circuit used for Bell System business, and the results of statistical analyses of these data are presented."
"Radioactivity is a world-famous word relating to a worldfamous subject. In general, when a statement of this sort is spoken, it is more than likely to be foolish; for specialists are altogether too addicted to imagining that their special interests are of world-wide concern when perhaps not fifty thousand people have even heard of them. With respect to radioactivity, though. the statement is correct. It would have been difficult indeed for any literate person to miss making the acquaintance of this word, in any year since 1900. I might say that radioactivity has been the best-advertised topic in modern physics-and this is not to say that it has been over-advertised! It is in fact the only part of modern physics which has received something approaching its due renown."
"Protection Features for the Joint Use of Wood Poles.1 J. O'R. COLEMAN and A. H. SCHIRMER. The paper reviews the historical development of joint use and the general results to date of studies of protective problems of lower and higher voltage joint use. The safety features are reviewed from the standpoint of (1) subscribers' premises, (2) employees, and (3) telephone plant. Characteristics of equipment of power and telephone plant as far as they relate to this problem are given. The various factors which determine magnitude and duration of the current and voltage in the telephone plant resulting from a contact with power conductors are discussed. Improved methods for obtaining safety under various conditions, where higher voltage joint use is found to be the best over-all solution, are described."
"Electrical networks are employed in sound recording for modifying and limiting the frequency-response characteristic. The necessity for their use, application, and design is described. Particular emphasis is placed upon the constant-resistance type of structure."
"A continuous machine is described for the projection of images from film into the pick-up camera for television transmission of motion pictures. The camera tube can be either of the instantaneous or the storage type. The images are incident upon the cathode during scansion and the optical image transition interval is less than the scanning flyback interval with which it is synchronized. Certain advantages are taken in the construction of a double-lens disk type of optical compensator to obtain an image steadiness determined only by the number of lenses per disk, such errors as are introduced by lens setting and gearing being negligible."
"Problems are discussed connected with the design. construction. and operation of electrical generators and water pumps running under full load sufficiently silently to permit satisfactory sound recording. The units described were the result of demands for silent power equipment for making shots on boats, trains, bus interiors, inaccessible canyons. etc. As an example of what is sometimes required, one of the largest units was installed in the hold of a windjammer used throughout the Paramount Production “Souls at Sea” and although the microphone was at times directly above(approximately 30 feet) the spot occupied by the generator, no noises were picked up by the sound recording equipment. — Four units are described, namely, one 144-kw. Hispano Suiza, one 57-kw. Lincoln Zephyr, and one 41-kw. Ford V-8 generator, and one high-pressure Ford V-8 water pump. In each case the entire mechanical unit is rubber-mounted on a sub-frame within a semi-airtight compartment constructed of an outer shell of 22-gauge auto-body steel, four inches of sound-absorbing material with an inner lining of asbestos cloth. The entire exhaust system is water-cooled, employing special mufflers also housed within the case. One radiator, mounted outside, cools the water for the engine as well as the exhaust. All are practically automatic in operation, with electrical governors, temperature regulators, etc. The machines have been in operation approximately. fifteen months and have required very little service other than normal maintenance."
"Different makes of lenses have different properties and characteristics that may render a lens good for one purpose and totally undesirable for another. Lenses of a given make and series often vary in quality among themselves. To obtain the best lens for a specific purpose it is necessary to subject the various makes to tests that will reveal their characteristics. Once the type of lens for a specific purpose has been chosen, it is of great importance to be able to select the best of that type from a group submitted by the manufacturer. — Equipment and technic used in tests that make such discrimination possible are described. A few general hints and precautions are given that will aid in determining the characteristics most desirable for various purposes."
"This report contains the reports of four of the Sub-Committees of the Projection Practice Committee, viz., on the Motion Picture Theater Survey, on Screen Illumination, on Projection Room Plans. and on the Proposed Revision of the NFPA Regulations for Nitrocellulose Motion Picture Film. A preliminary report is rendered by the Sub-Committees on Theater Survey and Screen Brightness. The Projection Room Plans and Revision of the Fire Regulations are presented in full."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C."
"All methods of three-color photography are the outgrowth of a suggestion made in 1855 by Clerk Maxwell, the illustrious British physicist. The method that he suggested would now be classed as an additive process, since the final reproduction was effected by projecting three lantern-slides in register on the same screen; one lantern being supplied with a red filter, one with a green filter, and one with a Mae filter. Maxwell suggested further that these lantern-slides be prepared from three negatives, each negative being exposed through the same filter that was to be used in projecting the corresponding lantern-slide. An extension of Maxwell's reasoning to subtractive processes leads to the conclusion that the dyes used in the production of the positive images should each be complementary in color to the corresponding taking filter. — Despite Maxwell's intimation that his process was theoretically incapable of perfect reproduction, the basic features of Maxwell's reasoning have been incorporated into the commonly accepted theory of color reproduction. The recent progress in the science of colorimetry has made it possible to investigate the relation that should obtain between the characteristics of the taking filters and the colors of the reproduction primaries. Such an investigation shows that the taking filters required for perfect reproduction have characteristics that are very different from those in. common use. — The paper is concerned with the. establishment of the conditions that lead to faithful reproduction by any three-color process. Examples of the application of these fundamental conditions are given for both additive and subtractive processes."
"The modern science of color measurement had its origin in the researches of Helmholtz, Maxwell, and Grassmann in the years from 1852 to 1855. This science found no important practical application until the opening of the twentieth century when the (F. E.) Ives colorimeter was applied to the measurement and specification of the colors of practical illuminants. In 1922 the Optical Society of America, through its Committee on Colorimetry, recommended data and technics for color measurement which were immediately adopted throughout the world, replacing numerous unrelated, and often inconsistent, technics that had been developed to meet the insistent demands of various industries for color specifications. A set of data based upon the most recent researches was recommended by the International Commission on Illumination in 1931, and these more satisfactory data have in turn replaced the data and extended the unification of methods which orginated with the O.S.A. Report of 1922. — Standard I.C.I. color specifications can be computed from spectrophotometric data. The fundamental relations that are used to define the quantities in terms of which colors are specified are most concisely expressed in mathematical formulas, which will be simply explained. As a matter of fact, short cuts based upon the standard I.C.I. 1931 data have been developed in the past few years so that no acquaintance with any mathematics other than ordinary arithmetic is now necessary for the performance of any of the essential operations encountered in standard color measurement. A typical example will be exhibited, and the interpretation of the results in terms of the dominant wavelength, purity, and brightness will be made clear by use of the chromaticity diagram. The conditions required in order that the colors of two samples shall match under some definite illuminant are that the three quantities in terms of which the colors are specified must be the same for the two samples."
"Soon after sound reproduction in auditory perspective was demonstrated over telephone circuits between Philadelphia and Washington in 1933, experimental sound pictures in auditory perspective were made at the Bell Telephone Laboratories' sound picture laboratory. Listening tests showed that they distinctly enhanced the illusion that the sound originated at its apparent source on the screen and they strikingly improved the feeling of spaciousness and reality. The auditory perspective effect is not primarily dependent upon perfect synchronism of the two sound-tracks required, nor on frequencies above the present commercial range. Existing equipment can be converted to project sound pictures in auditory perspective without great difficulty."
"The use of electrical networks with recording and reproducing systems to accomplish beneficial results has been steadily increasing. Two types of networks are in general use, namely, wave-filters and attenuation equalizers. This paper discusses in some detail the use of these networks with sound systems as reflected by present practices and later presents practical data for engineering the networks with a minimum of time and effort. The uses to which attenuation equalizers are put divide these networks into two general classes: first, fixed equalizers to provide fixed equalization for sound channels; and, second, variable equalizers to provide means for varying at will the relative amplitudes of the frequency components of sound signals. Although the means for engineering variable networks is far from being ideal, the review given in the paper of present practices should be valuable."
"Multiple-channel recording is a device for achieving flexibility at the time of dubbing or re-recording orchestral music presented as such in the picture. If one could predict for the music and sound departments which portions of the orchestra would be seen from which angles in the final picture, or if the editing could be completed before the music was recorded, there would be less merit in multiple-channel recording. — The reverse is true: The music is recorded first, the musicians photographed later, synchronizing their movements to a play-back of record. Meanwhile, the pictorial treatment has taken partial shape in the minds of producer and director. Still later it takes final shape in the hands of the film editor. Sound and action are then placed in the hands of the sound department for dubbing, but it is then too late for more than an ineffectual raising and lowering of volume. The violins or the woodwinds can not be lifted above the surrounding sections to match a close-up of the picture. — The multiplicity of sound-tracks (recorded, of course, in advance of the photography) provides the dubbing mixer with the means of easily blending a final sound-track that will be wholly in keeping with the final edition of the picture. The application of this method to the recent production “100 Men and a Girl” is described. The use of “close-mix” tracks, separate vocal tracks, etc., in conjunction with multiple recording is also described."
"A casual observer, looking over the existing standard amateur photographic equipment, would probably be of the opinion that there is little need of altering a camera to do a special job. However, closer observation of the various problems that photography serves reveals that the standards of practice have been chosen merely to suit the needs of a common majority of users, and the minority are almost forgotten. Further observations show that an alteration to a standard camera to make it fit a specific purpose usually precludes its usefulness for many of the purposes for which it was originally designed, and also its utility for other special purposes. — In this paper are made known some of the unusual adaptations of 16-mm. motion picture equipment, each to fulfill a definite purpose, and it is shown that industry is becoming more conscious of the utility of such photographic equipment as tools in solving some of its problems."
"In a previous paper a rack was described that provided for continuous motion of a 200-ft. length of motion picture film during processing but could be used with the rack-and-tank equipment. The purpose of this roller rack was to give a type of treatment in processing essentially similar to that given by a continuous machine while retaining the features of batch equipment that are helpful in experimental processing. — The rack previously described included a built-in driving motor and reduction gear, an arrangement that was most feasible for a single unit. With more extensive use it became desirable to have multiple units operated from stationary drives at the tanks and at the loading and unloading stations. — A new design has been worked out in which the weight of the rack was reduced greatly by the use of stationary drives. Further reduction in weight was attained by the substitution of tensioning springs for the weighted supporting beam associated with the movable lower shaft in the earlier model. This shaft was mounted upon the frame by lever arms in such a way as to use the torsional rigidity of the shaft itself to maintain it parallel to the upper shaft while allowing it the necessary vertical movement."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"The structure of the water-cooled quartz mercury lamp, its operation, quality of radiation, brightness, and source size limitations are first described, followed by a discussion of the power-supply equipment, both a-c. and d-c. Applications of the lamp are as follows: (1) Motion picture projection, with single lamps and with several sources. (2) Motion picture photography, both black-and-white and color, and the application to very high-speed motion picture photography. For black-and-white photography the lamp is quite satisfactory. For color work the relatively limited red radiation may call for external methods, either in the use of fluorescent reflectors or a highly red-sensitive emulsion, to make up for this deficiency. (3) Film printing. Because of the relatively high output in the blue-violet and ultraviolet regions this lamp may prove a very satisfactory source, especially where advantage is taken of the ultraviolet radiation. — The following additional applications, of secondary interest to the motion picture industry, are also discussed: photo-enlarging, photoengraving, and searchlights."
"Progress in two directions has greatly simplified making prints from screen-film negatives. The study of emulsion characteristics and of the mechanics of development with silver bromide solvents has led to the avoidance of color dilution in copying one screen material from another. Sodium thiosulfate in a metol developer has been shown to localize development in the lower strata of the film, so that the silver image is formed in close contact with the reseau, largely eliminating scatter at the boundaries of differently colored units; the crystalline structure of the silver salts and grain-size frequency also assist in preventing scatter. Residual color dilution as the result of the 45-degree oriented reseaux is explained, and the way in which this has been counteracted by suitable choice of gammas in the negative and positive material. The production of a vapor-lamp emitting the line spectra of mercury and cadmium without appreciable spectral background, combined with a liquid didymium chloride filter has provided a triple monochromatic light-source, the spectral lines of which coincide with the peaks of the reseau transmissions, thereby eliminating dilution of color due to overlap, such as has always previously been present with color filters of the narrow-cut type. The Dufaycolor contact printing machine with automatic control of both hue and printing light is described. The technics of printing, and development with standard equipment, are described."
"The advisability of using a non-linear volume characteristic in dialog recording is discussed. In this connection consideration is given to the following points: (a) the difference of level existing between the original and reproduced speech; (b) the advantages of a system in which manual monitoring can be confined to overall level correction rather than to momentary peaks; (c) the advantage of limiting the range of all except trained voices to assure the highest possible intelligibility. An analysis is then made of the various types of compression possible and a terminology is developed. — Consideration is given to the type of device most applicable to motion picture recording. The electrical circuits and operating characteristics of a compressor that has been in commercial service for 18 months are discussed. Practical results and advantages obtained by the use of the device during this period are analyzed and the possibility of addition applications is indicated."
"The transmission of television signals over wire lines a number of years ago used signals corresponding to images of coarse detail, and required frequency bands accommodated by existing types of circuits. The television images now considered necessary correspond to frequency bands of greatly increased width, and require special wire networks and transmission means. — The coaxial conductor recently in operation for experimental purposes between New York and Philadelphia can transmit a band of frequencies of approximately 1000 kc. While designed primarily for multiple telephone channels, it offered the possibility of transmitting a single wide band as required for television. — The experiment consisted in providing television-type terminal apparatus for producing signals falling within the available band, and of developing and utilizing methods of transmission that would make most complete use of the frequency band available. For convenience in experimental work, the signals were generated from motion picture film. The film was scanned mechanically by means of a lens disk containing 240 lenses. The film was moved continuously 24 frames per second, and its motion, together with the motion of the lenses in the disk, swept each frame of the film in 240 juxtaposed lines. Light passing through the film was received on a photosensitive surface; the resulting photoelectric current was amplified and by means of modulating and demodulating apparatus transmitted as a single side-band between approximately 150 and 950 kc. At the receiving end the single side-band signal was restored as a signal from zero to 800 kc. — For reception, special cathode-ray tubes were used in which particular attention was paid to the definition of the spot and the linearity of response. Synchronism between the two ends was obtained by sending a single frequency over a separate channel and using it to operate sweep circuits at the receiving end. The use of mechanical scanning and the high-definition receiving tubes resulted in pictures of very satisfactory quality within the limitations set by the frequency band."
"By a series of simple assumptions that do not appreciably depart from current practice, it is shown that it is possible to calculate readily the concentration of any ingredient present in a continuously replenished developer solution during use. The equations for the equilibria and rates of growth of the various substances are derived, and applied to a practical case. The benefits of chemical analyses for developer constituents both for maintenance of quality and for economy are pointed out. The analytical methods published by Lehmann and Tausch are outlined briefly."
"The development and growth of the modern motion picture sound-stage has almost paralleled that of sound pictures. Weather, lighting technic, and sound recording brought about requirements not originally considered. Modern sound-stages have increased not only in quality but in size, and must have structural strength to withstand the elements. Sound treatment makes necessary other treatment for satisfactory occupancy. Lighting is the greatest contributor of heat within the stage, is variable as to amount and duration, and must be controlled correctly. Size and number of sets are variable and create individual problems, and both the number and types of persons on a sound stage play their parts in relation to the air-conditioning. — Construction that retards flow of heat through walls necessitates control of the heat. High-salaried personnel, often in costume, demand comfort while working; less time is lost in make-up retouching and less delay brought about by perspiration dampened costumes. — An air-conditioning system should have the ability to heat, cool, ventilate, and clean. Stages are generally maintained at 75°F and 50 per cent relative humidity, with temperature settings above and below, at the option of the occupants. Floor distribution of air has the advantage of more economical removal of rising heat but the disadvantage of placing set construction and personnel too near source of cooling. Overhead distribution has the advantage of better temperature distribution but is less economical in the removal of rising heat from lights. — Sound treatment of an installation is necessary for continuous operation. If the system does not operate continuously the heat load builds up so that the system can not adequately regain comfortable conditions during non-shooting periods. Treatment is by both isolation and absorption of sound, and can be accurately determined and specified."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"As one of the events of the Fall, 1937, Convention at New York, N. Y., a demonstration of stereophonic sound with pictures was given in the auditorium of the Bell Telephone Laboratories. A special motion picture had been shot and recorded with twin sound-tracks, which were reproduced through separate channels by loud speakers located at the sides of the screen. So far as is known, this was the first public demonstration of stereophonic sound in conjunction with motion pictures."
"Compensation for varying degrees of film shrinkage is accomplished in the Bedford non-slip printer by changes in the length of a loop of film between a sprocket and the printing point. This involves uncertainty of synchronism by the amount that the loop, as first threaded, differs in length from the final running loop. For most purposes, the present designs do not cause greater change in loop-length than may readily be tolerated. — For certain purposes, especially if this type of printer is to be employed for 16-mm. films, there may be too much departure from synchronism. A guide-roller arrangement is described by which the necessary change of angle of approach of the raw stock to the printing point is attained with comparatively small change of loop length. — Several possible arrangements are considered and other features of the non-slip printer are discussed."
"The only requirements of a buzz-track are that the track be of correct width and located properly with respect to the edge of the film nearest the track, and that the sound produced by a weave in one direction shall be readily distinguishable from the sound that results when the film is displaced in the other direction. — It is desirable that the buzz-track film should be a direct recording rather than a print, since there is then less chance of inaccurate location. A simple recorder has been constructed for the sole purpose of making 35-mm. buzz-track film. It can readily be converted for 16-mm. film. All possible precautions are taken to insure correct track width and location. In view of the small quantity of buzz-track required, it is contemplated that only one such machine will be needed."
"A discussion of some of the practical aspects of push-pull recording supplementing a discussion of the theoretical principles by O. O. Ceccarini on page 162 of this issue of the Journal."
"A discussion of the mathematical principles underlying the push-pull method of sound recording, previously discussed by Douglas Shearer at a joint meeting of the Pacific Coast Section of the SMPE and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences on June 4, 1936."
"The high-frequency camera of the Zeiss-Ikon Company has behind it twenty years of development. The original model, designed by H. Lehmann, appeared in 1917 as the Ernemann high-frequency camera. The principle is based upon optical compensation, to which end a reflecting drum with exterior mirrors was employed as compensating element. Films were exposed at a frequency up to 500 pictures per second. — The new model, which appeared upon the market in 1930, likewise depends upon mirror compensation, except that instead of the exterior mirrors a reflector drum is supplied with mirrors on the inside according to the patents of Professor Thorner. — In this way an extraordinarily simple driving mechanism has been obtained, and a very compact form; with a capacity of approximately 60 meters of standard 35-mm, film, the size of the camera does not exceed the dimensions of a normal cine camera. The latest model permits an exposure frequency of about 1500 pictures per second. — The camera is suited for use in technical photography of all kinds. It can be equipped with intermediate lenses for close-ups or with a supplementary distance tube for distance exposures. For photographing micro high-frequency films a particular apparatus has been developed. — To evaluate the exposures, a time-marking device is used, in which a glow-lamp, controlled by an electric tuning-fork, produces time records on the film at periods of 1/1000 sec."
"It has been shown that the median grain diameter of a developed photographic layer is a logarithmic function of the ratio of specular to diffuse density (Callier quotient). Also, it is possible from the Callier quotient to evaluate the number of grains per unit area, the mass of silver per unit area, and obtain a value that parallels the graininess of the photographic deposit."
"American motion pictures are maintaining immense popularity throughout the world, yet barriers and obstructions that tend to limit their sale continue to be imposed abroad. Safeguarding and developing our film market abroad, “contingents” taxes, and complex restrictions, which continue to be imposed in all too many instances, are some of the problems American producers must face. Some are legitimate from the standpoint of local interests, but others appear to be unreasonable. In certain cases our motion picture industry may be justified in taking a strong and positive stand with the object of bringing about the rectification of unfair measures. — The efforts of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce to safeguard and augment American motion picture markets by supplying factual data and utilizing trade-promotive methods is covered. The Bureau's motion picture unit has recently been raised to full divisional rank, in recognition of the industry's importance. Such helps as it provides are especially vital at the present moment because our motion picture producers and distributors are likely to find themselves puzzled, entangled, or thwarted by the ever-growing intricacy of the conditions that they face abroad; their continued success in foreign markets depends upon the functioning of a reliable intelligence service."
"A brief historical résumé of the subject of bird sound recording is presented, including a discussion of the idea behind the work and its usefulness to students of ornithology. Graphical methods of recording songs are mentioned, as well as some early attempts at phonographic recording. — Problems of recording bird songs in the field are discussed. The high frequencies of bird song; the necessity of working at relatively great distances from the subject; wind and other noises; the need for portability and simplicity of equipment, all combine to increase the difficulties of the work. The use of parabolic concentrators in the work is discussed and it is concluded that the frequency distortion introduced by this type of pick-up device is more tolerable for bird song recording than it would be for records of human voice or music."
"Until such time as all theaters are equipped with new and modern improved equipment, methods must be pursued that will allow wide-power-range films to be reproduced to best advantage in theaters having equipment capable of such reproduction, and not, at the same time, penalize theaters having equipment incapable of handling the wider range. During the past year several major producing companies have made available to the theaters prints of two types: (1) The “Regular” release print with ordinary volume range; (2) “Hi-Range” and “Lo-Range” prints. — The “Hi-Range” prints have a range of 50 db. The volume of the “Lo-Range” prints may correspond to that of the “Regular” prints, or may be recorded to play 3 or 4 db. above the particular studio's average. In other words, any production issued on “Regular” prints will be distributed completely on one type of print, while any production available on “Hi-Range” prints will be available also on “Lo-Range” prints as well. As more theaters become converted to equipment capable of the higher ranges the practice of issuing “Hi-Range” and “Lo-Range” prints will be rapidly extended. — Instructions are given for using the various kinds of prints in theaters, and curves show the recommended amplifier output in terms of theater area, cubical contents, and number of seats."
"Editorial Note: The following paper represents a section of the Technical Bulletin of the Research Council of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences as published on November 24, 1937. If is reprinted in this Journal to give it wider distribution among members of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers."
"A brief résumé of the accomplishments of Robert William Paul in the motion picture field. At a meeting of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers on October 11, 1937, Mr. Paul was elected an Honorary Member of the Society."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus and materials are held, in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"The quality of variable-width sound records depends to a great extent upon image definition. The requirements for a perfect sound-track are complete transparency in the clear portion, complete opacity in the dark portions, an extremely sharp boundary between the clear and dark portions, and exact duplication of the wave traced upon the track by the galvanometer. — Distortion is introduced by any change in average transmission in recording high-frequency waves. At high densities the average transmission is reduced, and at very low densities is increased by the presence of the high-frequency waves. The average transmission is compared to the transmission through the film for a 50 percent exposed track without signal. — It is possible to find a density at which there is little, if any, change in average transmission, and this density corresponds to most nearly perfect image definition and least distortion. On an original or negative recording, with present commercial recording stocks, this density is extremely low, of the order of 0.6 to 0.8. For least ground-noise, the negative must be recorded at much higher density. A change in average transmission of the negative can be tolerated, since by proper choice of print density, minimum distortion in the positive track can be attained. — A modulated high-frequency recording affords an extremely accurate means of determining correct negative and print densities for given conditions of laboratory processing. An oscillator, designed for several carrier frequencies, is provided with a 400-cycle modulator for recording. The modulated carrier is recorded for several values of lamp current and processed to several negative densities. Prints are then processed to various values of density, and the 400-cycle output measured on suitable reproducing equipment. The combination of negative and print densities that gives least 400-cycle output indicates the condition for best image definition and least distortion. — Care must be exercised in the design and construction of the oscillator to maintain the 400-cycle output at a minimum."
"In another paper1 it is shown that present commercial sound-recording emulsions have least distortion at very low density, accompanied by an undesirable amount of ground-noise if used as a positive. — A new experimental emulsion, E.K. 0-7461-1, differs from present emulsions in having extremely high resolution and minimum distortion at a density of approximately 1.5. Its speed is less than that of regular recording stocks, but since it is used with white light and no filter is required, sufficient densities are readily attained with present optical systems. These characteristics offer possibilities heretofore not attainable. — The high resolution, low image spread, and low film-hiss of this emulsion make possible recording a positive sound-track that can be played directly, eliminating the distortion usually introduced in printing and the ground-noise contributed by the negative. — The advantage of direct playback will be realized whether the recording is standard, Class A push-pull or Class B push-pull. The perfection of image definition in the new emulsion means increased processing tolerances in adjusting the Class B system for perfect cross-over between the negative and positive half-waves. — It is not at present feasible to use this emulsion as a negative for making prints on positive stock. For special sound-films without pictures, it may be used for a printed positive, using a negative made on the same stock, provided printer losses are not excessive."
"When motion picture film is flexed around a cylinder the film in the region of the sprocket holes does not follow a smooth curve. In a sound record this leads to frequency distortion of perforation frequency."
"High-speed motion pictures are employed at Bell Telephone Laboratories as a visual aid in the study of problems associated with the design, manufacture, and testing of telephone apparatus. A new high-speed camera of the optical compensator type operating at 4000 pictures per second is described, and its application to the study of problems associated with telephone apparatus is discussed."
"Manufacturing and developmental technics of vacuum tubes are described with particular reference to their use in motion picture equipment. A brief discussion of how application requirements affect the choice of materials, structural design, and electrical characteristics of phototubes and amplifiers of both power and voltage types is included. How tubes are designed to meet specific needs is illustrated by reference to recent tube developments. Work on producing tubes having low-hum, low-microphonic, and low-noise characteristics is described as of special interest to the motion picture engineer. The paper closes with recommendations as to how to use vacuum tubes to best advantage."
"The luminous and electrical characteristics of a number of vapor discharge lamps that have attained practical importance in recent years are described. These include the sodium vapor lamp, the high-intensity mercury vapor lamp, and the high-pressure quartz capillary lamp. The fundamental physical phenomena and the manner in which these affect the light output and efficiency are discussed briefly. The effect of variations in gas pressure and current density upon the distribution of intensity in the spectrum is dealt with, and also the accompanying changes in intrinsic brilliancy and color of light emitted. — The latter part of the paper contains a discussion of recent developments in the utilization of fluorescent materials in gaseous discharge lamps. These lamps offer interesting possibilities from the point of view of general illumination and special color effects."
"This report presents the revised specifications of the Research Council's standard electrical characteristics for two-way reproducing systems in theaters, as well as other Research Council standards relating to power reference level, cross-over frequency, output requirements for theaters, and standardization of harmonic content. — In addition, data on the Research Council standard frequency test-film and theater test-film are presented, as well as specifications for the proposed standard nomenclature for filters."
"A new sound-on-disk recorder has been developed in which is used the principle of feeding part of the output of the system back to the input of the associated driving amplifier in properly controlled relationship. The use of this principle, which is widely used in feedback amplifiers, replaces the usual practice of providing dissipative elements for the control of an electrically driven vibrating system. Heretofore no practical application of feedback to electromechanical systems has been made, possibly because the requirements for stable operation of such systems are difficult of achievement. Through recent developments these requirements have been satisfactorily met. The new recorder is capable of recording on wax or direct-recording material without appreciable effect upon its characteristics, which include uniform response from 30 to 12,000 cps. and exceptional freedom from distortion. The recorder is extremely simple and affords easy means for field calibration from the feedback element, whose output is in direct proportion to the stylus velocity. These means also make available a monitoring voltage which, properly amplified, gives a precise aural picture of the stylus behavior during recording."
"A brief outline of a photographic method of “blooping,” devised to overcome the disadvantages of the previously used patching methods."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus and materials are held in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"It has been proposed that the standard dimensions of 16-mm. sound-prints be changed, principally by widening the sound record and scanned areas. The question is reviewed from the standpoint of the cumulative effects of film shrinkages and mechanical inaccuracies in the steps leading to the final sound-print and in the projection of that print, following the method described by R. P. May in the April, 1932, Journal. — A film having sound records of various widths supports the contention that increased width of sound-track is not needed, and that if any change from the present standard is to be made, it should be in the direction of a narrower track to provide a wider margin outside the sound-track and a wider safety area between the soundtrack and the picture."
"A simple direct-reading film-shrinkage gauge has been constructed with which shrinkage readings may be made in a few seconds. The accuracy of the instrument is such that the maximum variation in a series of readings made upon a particular film will not be more than 0.02 per cent of the predetermined length measured. Readings have been taken systematically with this instrument over a period of five months to determine the shrinkage behavior of acetate-base films under various conditions of storage and use. — The results indicate that the safety-base film made by each of the three American manufacturers has a characteristic value of shrinkage that is ordinarily reached within a few days after processing. Subsequent shrinkage is slow but continuous over a long period of time. The ultimate shrinkage is of the order of 1.25 per cent except in the case of films that have been projected many times on projectors using high-wattage lamps. The bearing of this shrinkage information upon equipment design is discussed briefly."
"The necessity in newsreel work of making the original sound recording on panchromatic film has always meant a serious sacrifice in quality and ground-noise ratio, as compared with results that can be attained when sound is recorded on a separate film. While ultraviolet recording materially increases fidelity of response, with panchromatic as well as with standard sound negative film, the low contrast and high base fog of panchromatic film processed for negative picture development produce noise and considerable reduction in volume range. — The track density on the panchromatic film is rather low, of the order of 1.0 to 1.2, when recorded with a practical optical system for a single-film system. When this track is printed on commercial release print stock the dense portion of the negative track will print through, producing a fog density in the clear portion of the printed track. This fog in the clear portion tends to produce noise and reduces the volume range. When the panchromatic negative and print are processed in accordance with commercial practice, the reduction in volume range is of the order of 6 db. — Printing panchromatic negative upon a high-contrast emulsion improves both the noise and volume range. Since the release prints must be on standard picture positive stock and not on high-contrast film, it is proposed to make a master positive on high-contrast emulsion and to re-record from this to a standard sound negative, which would be used in the ordinary way to make the release prints. An improvement in release print ground-noise of 8 to 12 db. is obtained by this method, and the volume range is increased by 6 db. Briefly, the proposed method is a means for increasing the density contrast of the final release print track when the original is recorded on panchromatic film."
"An optical system has been designed and tested for use in 35-mm. sound reproducers. It is the slitless type, and gives a scanning image that is 0.001 inch wide when used with an exciter lamp having a coil diameter of 0.055 inch. A toric lens is used to form a curved-line image of the filament of the lamp. This curved image is then re-imaged by a highly corrected objective lens of numerical aperture 0.28. The objective lens has inherent curvature of field, but this curvature is compensated by the curvature of the line-image formed by the toric lens so that the final image is flat. The toric lens also acts as a condenser lens to throw an image of the filament into the objective lens. Careful tests of samples show that the final image is flat, straight, and of uniform width and intensity."
"Push-pull recording on film is accomplished by means of a double light-valve having four ribbons. Distortions introduced by the recording medium that are represented by second-order harmonics balance out in reproducing, as do also the frequencies introduced by the action of the noise-reduction system. As a result, push-pull recording not only eliminates certain defects of conventional recording, but permits the application of new technics that allow further extension of the volume range and improvement in the naturalness in the final product."
"Advantages stated to be obtained by adjusting fixing baths and wash-water to the isoelectric point of gelatin have been claimed. The advantages are said to be shorter washing time, less swelling and retention of water, with consequent improvement in the jelly strength of the wet emulsion, and reduced drying time. In the present investigation the conditions as to pH of the solutions, and wash-water, rate of flow of water, residual thiosulfate, etc., were controlled accurately. The results indicate that with a regular acid fixing and hardening bath (F-25) there is no advantage, but rather a disadvantage in washing at the isoelectric point (ca. pH 4.9) rather than at pH 7 to 8, since the time required to remove hypo to the same degree is increased, nor is less water retained. In a non-hardening acid fixing bath, there was little difference in washing time, but some gain in drying time for the isoelectric wash because of reduced water absorption."
"Attempts to record on 16-mm. color-film the structural changes taking place during the 21-day incubation period of the hen's egg present problems varying with each day's growth. Because the authors were working with living subjects that required strict adherence to narrow tolerances in order to maintain normal embryological development and even life itself, it was necessary to adapt photography to the problem—not the reverse, as is often possible. — Development of the embryo is shown in three different ways, i. e., by transmitted light, with shell entire; removal of part of the shell and subsequent photography by reflected light; removing the entire shell and placing the embryo in a watch crystal, thus showing all parts in relative sizes. — In all three methods, temperature, humidity, and light control constituted the major problems. Special equipment devised to meet the requirements of both normal incubation and photography had to be built, and the use of mineral oil to obtain a transparent plane surface over the opaque, irregular, inner membrane of the egg's air-cell was evolved. — Color motion pictures have provided a distinct contribution in reproducing accurately the structural changes occurring during the incubation period."
"The success of two V. S. documentary films, “The Plow That Broke the Plains” and “The River,” written and directed by Pare Lorentz, has focused new attention upon this type of film. The school of Public Affairs of American University conducts a film course of eight weeks, with screenings, film analyses, and discussions conducted by visiting experts in film-making and film use. The subjects covered are: the newsreel as contemporary historian; the “March of Time” as a document; federal, educational, and scientific films; U. S. Government documentary films; documentary aspects of Hollywood films; foreign documentaries; industrial, sales, and domestic propaganda films. Technical aspects with reference to advances in film production were discussed. — In addition to regular discussion and study, a number of reports were made on documentary film activities. Among the most important was a complete survey of all U. S. government films."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C."
"A description of the new laboratory of Consolidated Film Industries, Inc., at Hollywood, Calif., completed during the winter of 1936–37. Included are lay-outs and illustrations of equipment on several of the floors. The description of the laboratory and equipment follows the sequence of negative development, dailies, master and release printing, together with a description of the special printers, processing units, chemical system, silver-recovery system, and other mechanical items of interest."
"The principles underlying light control by means of various types of reflectors and lenses for the attainment of proper light-modeling in photography are formulated. The basic units that may be employed are discussed with particular reference to their performance, advantages, and limitations."
"Color-temperatures of various carbon arcs have been calculated from spectral energy data. The dominant wavelength and per cent purity of each arc are given with reference to both “Average Daylight” and “Noon June Sunlight.” — It is pointed out that the color-temperatures of these carbon arc light-sources are of value in comparing them on a visual basis only. The effect of the radiant energy from the arcs upon any photosensitive medium other than the human eye, for example, photographic film, is very different from the visual impression. — Spectral energy distribution curves of several carbon are sources are published for the first time."
"Within the past three years, two new types of stainless steel have been developed: (1) type 315 which contains approximately 18% chromium, 8% nickel, 1.5% copper, and 1.5% molybdenum: and (2) a modification of type 316 (the usual 18–8 S Mo) where the molybdenum content has been raised to from 3 to 4% molybdenum. Considerable test data are now available for type 329, containing approximately 27% chromium, 4.5% nickel, and 1.5% molybdenum. The latter steel shows promise in that pit-corrosion tendency is considerably reduced. Satisfactory welds may also be made with this type. From the corrosion-resisting standpoint, three other compositions are discussed: type 309, 24% chromium, 13% nickel; type 310, 25% chromium, 20% nickel; and type 446, 27% chromium. — It is pointed out that a polished (No. 6) and a finely ground (No. 4) finish are more corrosion-resistant than a pickled finish, not only from the potential standpoint but due to the decreased possibility of their collecting foreign matter that will accelerate corrosive attack."
"A system of air-conditioning is described that employs lithium chloride for independently controlling both the relative humidity and the dry-bulb temperature of air. It is used both for comfort air-conditioning and for treating air for industrial processing work. — Lithium chloride is one of the most hygroscopic of inorganic compounds, and the aqueous solution has the property of absorbing moisture from, or adding moisture to, the air, depending upon the vapor pressure difference between the air and the solution. From this it is seen that, by properly controlling the concentration and temperature, the lithium chloride solution is capable of either dehumidifying or humidifying the air, depending upon the requirements. The air is cooled or warmed when passed over an aqueous solution of lithium chloride, depending upon whether the solution is cooler or warmer than the air. Further cooling or warming of the air when desired is attained by using an after-cooling or after-heating coil. — The cycle of air-conditioning is explained and illustrations of an air-conditioning unit are shown. The application of the system to a typical problem of interest to motion picture engineers is discussed and illustrated by means of a schematic flow diagram. Operating data for full-load and for less than full-load conditions show low cost of operation and efficiencies equally as high when operating either at maximum load or at less than maximum load. Washing, deodorizing, and neutralizing bacteria from the air by contact with lithium chloride are important factors where pure clean air is desired."
"Die-castings are defined as castings made by forcing molten metal into a metallic mold or die. The alloy most generally used is of the zinc base type, having a tensile strength of approximately 40,000 lbs. per sq. inch. For photographic appliances, the alloys of lower specific gravity are more desirable. Aluminum base alloys are used more extensively in photographic appliances for that reason. Physical properties of various aluminum die-casting alloys are given. — Since low specific gravity is of prime importance in castings used for photographic appliances, the development of the process of die-casting the lightest of all commercial metals, magnesium, is of particular interest to motion picture engineers. Magnesium is one-third as heavy as aluminum, and magnesium die-castings are now being used wherever light weight is important. Physical properties of magnesium die-castings are given. Reference is also made to die-casting brass and German silver, a recent development."
"The phenomenon of adsorption is discussed. Some of the properties of the solid adsorbent, activated alumina, are given, including a dynamic characteristic curve. This dynamic characteristic is utilized industrially to dry air and gases to dewpoints as low as —76°C (0.0004 grain per cu. ft.; 0.0009 milligram per liter). Apparatus utilizing activated alumina in this way is described and pictured. — Uses of the system include drying controlled atmospheres and bottled gases, and in chemical processing when water-vapor would promote corrosion or adversely affect the processes. Compressed-air lines are kept free of water to prevent freeze-up in winter or spoilage of work. — In industrial and comfort air-conditioning, comparatively large quantities of partially dried air are required. A continuous dehumidifier to meet these requirements is described and illustrated. — It is pointed out that performance is a function of machine design as well as of the fundamental characteristics of the solid adsorbent used. Depending upon the factors of first cost and economy of operation, a wide range of performance may be obtained. A curve shows the present-day characteristic of a line of machines that is commercially available."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus and materials are held in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"An account of some of the highlights in the history of the development of the business of Technicolor Motion Picture Corporation primarily from the point of view of its contact with motion picture producers, distributors, and exhibitors; incidental to which is an account of the development and growth of the various Technicolor processes from a semi-technical point of view but with special reference to practical application in the motion picture industry."
"The usual methods of evaluating the frequency characteristic of sound records have been satisfactory for the determination of the required correction for overall losses. However, the losses due to aperture and optical effects are not known with sufficient precision to permit an inferior limit to be assigned to film loss only. — The method described was chosen in connection with a high-fidelity development and consists of comparing direct measurements made on images formed by contact printing a geometrically shaped test-object on the film with measurements of frequency records made using the recorder optical system. While the results obtained cannot be applied general1y as yet, due to the difficulty of correcting for variations in slit illumination. and for different gammas, the method is capable of segregating film loss from other losses for the specific conditions under which the test is conducted."
"The use of photoelectric exposure-meters by Hollywood studio cameramen is definitely increasing. Such meters are universally employed on Technicolor productions, and are also employed by an increasing majority of studio cinematographers for monochrome exterior scenes. In general, cameramen consider conventional types of photoelectric meters unsuitable for use on interior scenes. For use under studio interior lighting a meter of especial precision in the low-brightness range is necessary and a direct-reading, rather than a reflection-reading, type would be preferred by many. In the opinion of many leading cameramen, a photometer reading directly in foot-candles, rather than an exposure-meter reading in photographic exposure units, would be preferable for this usage."
"Viscose Ozaphane, a new type of film with a base of regenerated cellulose sheeting, and having certain advantages for record use, was tested lo determine its comparative stability. Its stability was compared with that of cellulose nitrate, and also with that of cellulose acetate, which is widely, used for slide-film and which has been found to be a very stable material for preserving records in libraries. The viscose type of film apparently is not suitable for permanent records, hut does appear to have properties to recommend its use for reading-room copies that can be replaced when they become unserviceable. The stability was determined by measuring changes in the chemical and physical properties under accelerated aging. The changes observed were increase in acidify and copper number, and decrease in viscosity, weight, and flexibility."
"Semiannual report of the Committee. The present report deals with (1) cores for 35-mm. and 16-mm. motion picture film; (2) sound-track dimensions; (3) 16-mm. sound-film sprocket; (4) definition of safety film; (5) reduction ratio for 35-mm. to 16-mm.; (6) universal perforation; and (7) “variable-area” us. variable-width."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in u. number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York. N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C."
"Recent trends toward the smaller sized motion picture audience indicate that new considerations can be given to the possibility of a larger and differently shaped screen, retaining the 35-mm. film. The screen is pictured as completely occupying the entire forefront of the motion picture auditorium, assuming a space stage instead of an artificially framed picture."
"The expressions for the throat impedance of a horn with two rates of exponential flare have been derived. This expression is applicable to any number of sections by considering two sections at a time. The impedance-frequency characteristic of specific multiple horns shows the possibility of obtaining a large variety of impedance characteristics suitable for improving the efficiency characteristic over that possible with a single rate of flare. The efficiency of a horn type of loud speaker having a horn with three rates of flare shows an efficiency within a few per cent of the ultimate efficiency."
"Design requirements for the construction of scoring stages are discussed, and, after a brief examination of the uses to which such recording stages are put in motion picture studios, there follows an examination of their most desirable shape and of the amount of sound-insulation necessary for their walls. The matter of optimal reverberation is investigated from the standpoints of the variation of reverberation with frequency, of accommodating different musical performances by providing control of the reverberation, and of considering the ratio of “initial” sound to generally reflected sound—an extension of the term “recorded reverberation.”"
"The complexity of background projection is generally known. It has been widely applied in cinematography with great success. A new field offers tremendous opportunity, namely, still photography. Two types of background projector are described, one to cover screens up to 10 × 12 feet, the other up to 13 × 18 feet. The following elements of the problem are discussed: — (1) The spot condition: what causes it and how to reduce it, even to eliminating it entirely. (2) Screen texture: nitrate or acetate base sprayed with polarising material for diffusion (flatlight type); the new Trans-Lux screen of the high-transmission type. (3) Theory of light refraction through screen. (4) Light brightness vs. diffusion of screen. (5) Optical conditions, condensers, objective lenses, etc. (6) Light-source: brightness vs. current, behavior of different types of carbons; spectral consideration in color projection. (7) Cooling the slides with refrigerated air. (8) Electrical and optical characteristics, remote control of arc, douser, air-cooling system."
"The sensitivity of Ultra-Speed Panchromatic negative film is discussed in comparison to the speed of Superpan Negative film. A variety of testing methods, employing sensitometers miniature still cameras, motion picture cameras, and different positive printing devices, are used in the determinations."
"After pointing out that photographic development is a reduction process, the terms “oxidation potential” and “reduction potential” are discussed. The methods of measuring such potentials are also discussed, as well as the condition that a system must be reversible before its true electrochemical potential can be measured. The reversibility of development in ferrous oxalate developers is referred to and some indication of reversibility in amidol developers is shown. The usual electrochemical methods of measuring potentials have been applied to organic developer solutions, and the effects of the various constituents of an MQ developer upon its “measured potential” are discussed. The true significance of these measured potentials is still not definitely known. It is shown that pH is the most important factor in determining the measured potential of a given developer solution, but that neither pH nor potential shows sufficient correlation with photographic action to be used as a “single” control variable."
"Water transmits visible radiation but absorbs radiation in the infrared portion of the spectrum. The transmission of water to the total radiation from a source therefore depends upon the spectral distribution of the radiation. This transmission has been measured for tungsten lamps at various filament temperatures, and also for other well known sources of radiation."
"It was just fifty years ago—1887, to be exact—that the ground-work was laid for the motion picture art, and with it the foundation of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers. The thought of putting motion into photography, which the late Thomas Alva Edison derived largely from the zoetrope, a toy, and his immediate assignment of an associate to the task of developing a camera at his Newark Lamp Works laboratory, would, I believe, entitle that inventor to honorary recognition by this Society. And as chief of the experimental crew, the late W. K. L. Dickson undoubtedly should also be entitled to similar recognition.** The Ott brothers, John and Fred, Charley Kaiser, and Bill Heist rounded out the very first group of technicians and mechanics in the world engaged exclusively in developing the necessary apparatus for taking and exhibiting motion pictures."
"During the last fifteen years there has been considerable change in camera technic for motion picture production. The rather unnatural effect of cutting from long shots to close-ups has been avoided more and more by perambulating the camera from one position to another during the shot. In general, rolling tripods, camera dollies, and perambulating platforms are in use now for nearly all types of scenes. With more elaborate sets being designed every day, dialog and action becoming faster, more effective camera angles and pictorial effects being wanted, there was a need for more efficient perambulating apparatus to move camera and cameraman into the exact positions from which to take the most effective shots."
"A sound-film recorder was described by the authors before the Society in 1936.1 It is the purpose here to describe additional equipment, which has been designed and built to meet the requirements of the Phonetics Laboratory of the Department of Psychology of Oberlin College (Oberlin, Ohio) for research work conducted by that department under the direction of Dr. R. H. Stetson."
"All reflecting surfaces used for present-day projection purposes are metal. In the well known glass type of reflector, the silver layer acting as the reflecting surface is supported by a base of glass, which acts also as a protecting medium against the damaging effects of an open arc and its associated heat. In the all-metal type of reflector, both the supporting base and the reflecting surface are, as may be expected, composed of metal."
"Film will collect dirt, dust, and lint in a number of ways. Excess oiling of mechanisms makes the film oily and causes dirt, dust, and lint to adhere more easily. Dirt, dust, and lint flying in the air in the projection room from fans, sweepings, etc., get on the film during rewinding and projection. Static electricity generated by friction during the process of rewinding and projection causes dust and lint to adhere to the sound-track. Dirt, dust, and lint collect in the valves of both upper and lower magazines and in turn is deposited upon the film. The shaking of film reels during transportation in shipping cases lined with cardboard or other soft material causes the lining material to chip off and grind up and lodge upon the film."
"Flash fire-valves are designed to eliminate all danger of serious film fires in projectors during projection caused by broken or tom sprocket-holes, bad patches, worn out mechanism, etc. The operation of the valves makes it impossible for fire in the projector during the process of projection to get into either film magazine, and limits the length of film that can burn in the projector to about 18 inches, or just what is threaded through the mechanism."
"The work on the design of the microphotographic camera described in this article was started in Washington, D. C., approximately two years ago and was made possible through the cooperation of various governmental and non-governmental agencies. The Navy Department, Bureau of The Census, the Works Progress Administration, and the Department of Agriculture were the principal governmental departments cooperating. Funds for carrying out the experimental and developmental work were provided by the Chemical Foundation, and were administered through the Documentation Division of Science Service, Washinnton. D. C."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus and materials are held in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"The following edition of the Standards of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers is based upon the previous edition, published in November, 1934, and contains all the revisions and additions that have evolved in the interim as a result of developments in the motion picture art. A few new drawings have been added in the 35-mm, and 16-mm, categories, as also a complete set of 8-mm, drawings. Quite a number of tolerances have been added, where lacking in the previous edition. — The complete body of standards herein contained have received initial approval by the Standards Committee, and comments from the membership of the Society are solicited. If no objections arise, the Board of Governors will take action at their next meeting on adopting them as SMPE standards, after which they will be submitted to the Sectional Committee on Motion Pictures (ASA) for approval by the American Standards Association. Although a number of these standards have already been approved by the ASA, the complete body of standards will be re-submitted in view of the new plan of numbering and the single-sheet format."
"The volume of film being used for permanent record purposes is rapidly increasing. This includes principally the documentary type of motion pictures. However, better entertainment pictures are being produced which can reasonably be expected to live just as a good book lives. Increased volume of documentary records and increased interest in permanency demands planned storage, both in terms of preservation and in terms of fire hazard. The principle of unit isolation is the basis for storage at The National Archives. Spread of film fire can be prevented by (1) insulation and (2) use of a cooling agent. Among cooling agents tested, water was found effective and economical. Cascade type of shelving holds out great promise."
"Correct engineering design of theater sound and projection equipment depends upon close contact between the engineers and the projectionists. The position of the projectionist in the industry is stressed, since the motion picture performance is placed before the audience by him."
"Advanced methods of licensing projectionists in the Province of Alberta are described, with some comments on the apparent benefits derived from the process. Becoming a first-class projectionist requires a licensed apprenticeship of at least twelve months, followed by one year as third-class and, later, one year as second-class projectionist before taking final examination for a first-class license. Each period, except apprenticeship, is preceded by a thorough examination."
"Engineers as a group are backward in dealing with problems involving the human element. They would rather deal with things than persons. They can not be blamed for this, however, because most engineering problems are solved by definite formulas and procedures, while problems dealing with the human element seldom follow expected paths. The human element is a vital consideration in the successful operation of a theater that requires that sound and projection equipment be maintained in first-class condition at all times. — Plans and ideas that have aided in maintaining high standards of projection in Lima (Ohio) are presented. Since the city is more than 150 miles from the nearest parts-supply company, a well-planned system of mutual coöperation is of the greatest importance in order to prevent shut-downs with attendant loss of money and goodwill. Success over a period of ten years recommends the plans to the consideration of other protectionists' organizations that are more or less isolated from repair and emergency engineering facilities."
"An argument is presented for recommended standard screen-image proportions based upon the dimensions and brightness that will provide most comfortable viewing conditions at the center of the theater seating space. It proposes that such compromise would tend toward best average viewing conditions and, therefore, least eye-strain and most enjoyment for the audience as a whole."
"Certain faults of perforated screens are discussed, particularly with relation to the perforations. The question is raised as to what extent the faulty perforations, as illustrated, may be detrimental to sound and picture quality in theaters."
"Because commercial motion pictures on 16-mm. film are an outgrowth of “home movies,” the standards of projection are low. Less care is given to proper presentation than in theatrical showings of 35-mm. film; whereas, because of greater overall magnification, greater care should be taken. Some of the more glaring faults are treated in detail, a general treatment is set forth, and the importance of proper presentation is clarified by comparison of show-windows of the street and of the screen."
"Standards have established the exact location of the sound-track of motion picture film in relation to the perforations and the picture area. Numerous cases are described of prints wherein the sound-track location departs considerably from the standard. This is a source of annoyance to the projectionist and often results in faults on the screen or in reproduction."
"Statement of the activities of the Standards Committee during the past six months, leading to completion of the revision of the SMPE standards published elsewhere in this issue of the Journal."
"A brief discussion of the new trends in studio set lighting—increased use of dolly shots; use of lamps above the set instead of on the floor; improvements in lens and reflector types of lamps; greater intensities required for color cinematography; lighting sets according to “key lights,” with much less “general” lighting. The report concludes with a description of some of the new set lighting equipment."
"A statement of recent activities of the Committee, and a proposed program of future work."
"This report of the Progress Committee covers the year 1937. The advances in the cinematographic art are classified as follows: (I) Cinematography: (A) Professional and (B) Substandard; (II) Sound Recording; (III) Sound and Picture Reproduction; (IV) Publications and New Books; (Appendix) The Japanese Motion Picture Industry; Progress in Germany; Progress in Great Britain."
"In connection with the general improvement in cartoon technic, it was recognized that several developments could be undertaken that would add much, if successfully adapted, to the power and charm of animated motion pictures. By confining cartoon photography to a single plane in front of the camera, the expense and difficulty of creating a convincing illusion of depth and a real-life appearance by camera movement made the consideration of a multiplane technic imperative. The out-of-focus diffusion and the differential movement of foreground and background of scenes can be achieved most easily by separating the elements on different planes in front of the camera. The problem resolved itself into the adaptation of glass-shot technic to cartoon production. In separating the scene elements into several planes, many other advantages were gained, such as lighting control of single-scene elements, ease of using special effects equipment, and possibility of using backlight and process backgrounds. — The answer to the problem was the multiplane camera, built with the view of accuracy of control, complete flexibility of scene set-up, and ease of operation. This required plane elements that could be quickly and accurately assembled and disassembled; separate lights for each plane; a quick-reading and accurate indicating system; and an interlocked system of controls. — Because the light level on each plane is an important part of every set-up, a special light-measuring system had to be devised. The number of machine adjustments involved was so large that a master control sheet was laid out, giving complete operation information for each frame of film. As a final check before exposure, a periscope type of finder was devised so that the chief operator could check the set-up visually before each exposure. To write out the master control sheets, it was necessary to develop a scene-planning group of artists and technicians to control and plan the use of the machine in creating the desired illusions. — The results in enhancing the effectiveness of animated motion pictures have been very satisfactory. The multiplane technic has proved so flexible that its complete possibilities will be realized only with experience."
"When the spherical tip of an ideal reproducer stylus slides over a warped groove surface having a sinusoidal profile, the traced curve is not exactly sinusoidal. An analysis of the harmonic content of the traced curve, similar to that given by DiToro (J. Soc. Mot. Pict. Eng., Nov., 1937) but avoiding his approximations, is directly applicable to reproduction from vertical-cut records. These results may be applied to reproduction from lateral-cut records by taking the original groove surface as inclined approximately 45 degrees from the horizontal, projecting the traced curve upon the horizontal and vertical planes, and adding in proper phase the guidance of the stylus tip by both sidewalls. It is shown that there is a residual vertical component of stylus motion (“pinch” effect) and complete cancellation of all even harmonics in the tracing distortion. Computation of the remaining odd harmonics indicates that, when the ideal lateral-cut reproducer characteristics include ideal “following” for vertical motion at signal frequency, a lateral-cut record may be reproduced with one-fourth to one-tenth the rms. distortion of a similarly recorded vertical-cut record. These results are displayed for convenient reference by contours of constant distortion upon a universal chart, the dimensionless coordinates of which characterize any recording condition and allow immediate specification of the maximum permissible recorded amplitude, maximum predistortion of the frequency characteristic, and the required clearance angle of the recording stylus."
"In motion picture projection optical systems for tungsten-filament sources, the condenser design is such that the source is imaged well ahead of the picture aperture. This position is dictated by considerations of uniformity of screen brightness. It is not the optimal position from the standpoint of utilization of light, for it entails losses at the aperture. At the best position for efficiency, the degree of brightness uniformity is inacceptable because of the non-uniform brightness of the source. The paper describes a method for reducing such losses without sacrificing picture quality."
"In subtractive color processes it is desirable to have some type of sensitometry to tell how the process departs from correct rendering of neutral gray scales. Reading the density of a color deposit through an arbitrary filler does not give rise to a useful value in terms of the final color process. For practical use the “effective density” of a color is defined as the visual density produced by adding sufficient of the other colors of the process to produce gray. An instrument is described that reads such values directly. This instrument is capable also of analyzing the amounts of each of two or more colors when present simultaneously and permits the analysis of a sensitometric exposure into the corresponding deposits of each color. Complete sensitometric curves may he drawn for all the records from the readings of a single strip."
"The plan of work followed by the Papers Committee during the past couple of years is discussed, together with the results achieved by following the plan. The Report concludes with regulations of the Society with regard to the preparation of papers for presentation and publication, and detailed instructions concerning editorial style and typographical arrangement."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C."
"A description of the proceedings of the informal luncheon held on the opening day (April 25, 1938) of the Spring Convention at Washington, D. C.; including remarks by Col. Daniel I. Sultan, Engineer Commissioner for the District of Columbia; Honorable Clarence F. Lea, Member of Congress from California; and Honorable Daniel C. Roper, Secretary of Commerce."
"For some months the Projection Practice Committee has been conducing a survey of motion picture theaters for the purpose of determining the existing conditions under which motion pictures are presented. The following report summarizes the data obtained from the survey and presents them in the form of charts showing the ratios of viewing distance to screen width, seating length to seating width, and seating width to screen width. Other charts show the distance from the floor to the bottom of the screen, the angle of projection, screen width, and arc current. — The survey covers approximately 600 theaters, and is shown to be fairly representative of the entire industry by reason of the fact that index figures calculated from the survey for only 400 theaters did not change when the number of theaters increased to 600. — The data presented are to form the basis of an analysis leading to the determination of criteria for proper motion picture theater design."
"A brief account of the activities of the Committee during the past six months. Among the subjects discussed are the following: reel bands, splicing, processing and waxing, condition of reels in theaters and exchanges, cleaning films, instructional material to accompany films, and film cases."
"A brief description of the SMPE 16-mm. sound and visual test-films. The visual test-film is an optical reduction of the 35-mm. visual test-film; and the 16-mm. sound test-film is an optical reduction of a special 35-mm. recording, pre-corrected so that the selected frequencies (50 to 6000 cycles) will be reproduced at constant level by an ideal reproducer."
"A general description of the types of movietone sound-track currently being released or to be released in the immediate future, according to plans: (1) single variable-density; (2) single variable-density squeeze; (3) single variable-density double-squeeze; (4) push-pull variable density; (5) push-pull variable-density squeeze; (6) bilateral variable width; (7) duplex variable-width; (8) unilateral variable-width; (9) push-pull variable-width. — During the past year all these tracks have been used to some extent in released movietone pictures. Samples of the tracks are shown and described. A description is also included of the general technic involved in recording and reproducing the so-called “Hi-Range” and “Lo-Range” prints. During the past two years this particular type has been used successfully in extending the volume range of variable-density releases to approximately 50 db. This release is intended to be shown only in theaters having equipment adequate to reproduce music 6 to 10 db. higher than average dialog. — A description of the mechanics and technic for re-recording with the squeeze-track is outlined. This procedure increases noise-reduction from 3 to 6 db., depending upon the amount of squeeze."
"Although the basic principles underlying sound pick-up for motion pictures have been understood for some time, the ability to carry them out completely in the presence of the requirements of artistry, photography, lighting, etc., has constituted a difficult problem. The paper discusses some of these problems, particularly with respect to the acoustics of production sets and scoring stages. The problems of stereophonic reproduction are also discussed in some detail."
"The first attempt at mechanographic recording and reproducing was made as early as 1891 but no successful solution of the problem was applied until the invention of J. A. Miller in 1931. The principle of this invention is described in the paper as inertia-free magnification. After the introduction of this principle, the inventor coöperated with the research laboratories of the N. V. Philips Company, of Eindhoven, Holland, in order to solve the problems involved in bringing the system to commercial use. — The method of obtaining a mechanical amplification of forty times is described and illustrated. The mathematical and theoretical advantages of this system over photographic methods are discussed together with the film or tape that has been specially prepared for this process of recording. — Some of the difficulties or precautions that are peculiar to this system and are new to the art of recording, relating to the cutting instrument, cutting material, and also the coating of the film, are described. One type of recording machine is described, with drawings of the most interesting mechanical parts."
"A statement of the growth of membership of the Society and non-member subscriptions for the Journal during the past six months."
"These standards apply to all types of oil circuit breakers, whether for indoor or outdoor service."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The significance of teats applied in the study of the deterioration of mineral insulating oils is discussed in an article by J. C. Balsbaugh and J. L. Oncley (1). In addition to some mineral oils, decalin, tetralin, and cotane were oxidized and their electrical, chemical, and optical properties were measured. The synthetic hydrocarbons studied had much lower dielectric losses for a given amount of oxygen consumed than the group of oils studied, showing that it is the nature of the oxidation products formed, rather than the oxtent of oxidation, which is important. The relative change in light transmission of the oxidized samples appeared to be a good indication of electrical deterioration."
"Progress in rubber insulation is recorded largely in the patent literature, rather than in the periodicals. As a result, it is somewhat difficult to appraise improvements due to the well-known defects of patent specifications. The progress of rubber technology in general has been definite, but not spectacular. These improvements in rubber products, as a whole, will be reflected gradually in rubber insulation."
"Work has been continued on methods for evaluating the stability and resistance to sludging of transformer oils. Subcommittee IV, Committee D-9 of the American Society for Testing Materials, is engaged in studying a teat for the rate of formation of sludge in transformer oil samples subjected to a temperature of 120°C., and in contact with oxygen and copper. This committee is also studying a quality control test method in which oxygen, under pressure, is contacted with the oil and copper at 140°C. for twenty-four hours, following which the amount of sludge is determined."
"In his review of progress in insulation research for 1939, Professor Whitehead (123) states that, while there have been no outstanding new developments in the field of high voltage insulation for power cables, a great deal of information has appeared which concerns existing designs, as well as new methods of test. This statement applies equally well to the specific field of insulating paper with which several of the 84 references included in Professor Whitehead's review are concerned. Because of a certain amount of overlapping of time covered by these annual reviews, and since reference is frequently made to papers presented orally but not published the same year, some of the work reviewed here has been referred to in the last annual review. Thus, the work reported by F. M. Clark on the deterioration of oil-treated paper in 1938, referred to in last year's review, has appeared in the March, 1939 issue cf the Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry. In this paper, Clark (124) presents data showing that the behavior of oil-impregnated paper may bear no relation to “bulk” oil tests, as the quantitative proportion of acids formed in the oil may be of less effect than their ability to be adsorbed by cellulose fibers. This problem of the deterioration of impregnated cellulose is also discussed by J. J. Smith and J. A. Scott (125), who, in addition to a review of the literature, present data concerning the aging of built-up samples, 100 mils thick, of both yellow and black varnished cloth and white cotton tape treated with black varnish, over the temperature range from 105 to 200°C. Deterioration was followed by means of visual observation, by bending tests, and by breakdown voltage tests on samples immersed in water. The results have particular significance with respect to the temperature rating of motors and other electrical machines."
"The 1939 literature on plastics has kept pace with their rapidly expanding commercial development. Among the many general reviews, only a few can be briefly mentioned. “Modern Plastics” (148,149) rather completely describes developments during 1939. W. A. Hamor (150) discusses many of the newer resins, both in America and Europe. “Electrical Manufacturing” (151) compares the properties of plastic and ceramic insulators, and includes a list of companles making such materials. Kausch (153) in his handbook (second edition) thoroughly covers all commercial resins. The fields of insulation finishes, sheet and rod materials, and continuous wire insulation are summarized by Halls (153,154) and Stillwagon (155). Other reviews are included in the bibliography (156–179)."
