"The confusion concerning the elastic properties of quartz which exists in the literature of the piezoelectric resonator is pointed out. Emphasis is placed on the accepted definitions of right and left quartz and of right- and left-handed optical rotation, the disregard of which by authors, together with a rather free use of axial systems of their own choosing, sometimes obscurely defined, is responsible for the confusion. An independent experimental investigation is made of the interrela-tions between piezoelectric polarization, optical rotatory power, elastic compressional compliance, and characteristic etch markings and thereby with the natural face forms of the quartz. Particular care is taken to avoid any possible errors in sign in relating these properties, and a number of such errors in the literature are pointed out. The etch pattern on a quartz sphere is described as well as its use as a reference standard in determining the orientation of quartz resonators by means of the etch patterns on their faces."
"Impulse excitation is employed to produce horizontal synchronizing pulses for television directly from the vertical pulses. The simple equipment to do this and to produce odd-line interlaced synchronizing are described."
"Measurements of motorcar-ignition peak field strength were made on frequencies of 40, 60, 100, 140, 180, 240, and 450 megacycles. Propagation was over Long Island ground and the receiveng antennas were 35 feet high and 100 feet from the road. Under these conditions, the average field strength varied about 2 to 1 over the frequency range. Curves show the maximum field strength versus frequency for 90, 50, and 10 per cent of all the measurements. Vertical and horizontal polarization are compared showing slightly greater field strength, in general, for vertical polarization. New cars, old cars, and trucks are compared showing no large differences of ignition field strength. Some of the factors involved in motorcar-ignition radiation are mentioned. Theoretical propagation curves are included and the measuring system is briefly discussed."
"A theorem is developed for finding the steady-state voltage between two points 0 and 0' of a network having the following characteristics. Any number of (linear bilateral) impedances meet at the junction 0'. The voltages from 0 to the opposite ends of these impedances are known. These voltages and impedances are all that need be specified about the network. The theory is both simple to remember and simple to apply in problems where either a literal or a numerical solution is desired. In complicated networks it is a considerable timesaver over the more conventional method involving the simultaneous solution of a number of Kirchhoff's mesh equations. The theorem should find wide application, particularly in many linear-amplifier problems. The method of using the theorem and the relative simplicity with which results can be obtained is illustrated by considering five physically different (although mathematically quite similar) types of networks; namely, a T network, an unbalanced three-phase Y-connected network, a triode amplifier (account being taken of its interelectrode capacitances), the conventional resistance-capacitance coupled amplifier, and a two-stage parallel-feedback amplifier."
"It has long been known that the potential distribution in axially symmetric electrostatic fields can be expressed in terms of a Fourier integral. This form of solution is not generally very useful because of the difficulties encountered in evaluating the integral. The present paper shows how this integral can be evaluated for a particular type of potential distribution, and shows how it may be applied to obtain the variation in potential along the axis when the potential variation along any cylinder is known. The result is then used to obtain an approximate solution for the particular case of two infinitely long cylinders of equal diameter separated by an amount comparable to their diameters."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"In this issue of the PROCEEDINGS there appears an article by Professor Karl S. Van Dyke discussing the various conventions used with regard to quartz crystals and methods for establishing correct orientations in the crystal. He points out the need for standardizing on methods for designating crystals. This is a project in which we have tried to arouse interest without much success (original correspondance item from 1939 is included). In 1938 a pamphlet by the National Physical Laboratories appeared which attempted to standardize a notation with respect to quartz. It still appears desirable to have these matters considered by a standardizing committee. Since Professor Van Dyke has investigated the matter of terminology and conventions applicable to quartz rather completely, we suggest that he be appointed chairman of such a committee."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"Two unusual facts were disclosed during the field testing of the supervisory-control carrier-current channel on the 287-kv Boulder Dam-Los Angeles transmission lines. Carrier-current losses were much higher than calculations and previous experience had indicated. The interference from power equipment arcs could not be isolated by the use of resonant choke coils, requiring special circuit designs for satisfactory operation."
"The history of low-voltage air circuit breakers has paralleled the development of power distribution. The desire for improved contacts led from an automatic knife-switch type of circuit breaker to an air circuit breaker equipped with a laminated copper brush. The trend from d-c systems to polyphase a-c systems led from the ``nontrip free'' type of air circuit breaker to the ``trip free'' breaker; and now the requirements for low maintenance, safety of operation, increased continuity of service, together with the trend to steel enclosing of switchboards and individual devices, is being met by new air circuit breakers equipped with solid silver main contacts, alloy arcing tips, and a new type of arc interrupter herein described."
"Double-frequency rotor vibration due to different rigidity constants for the two major axes in two-pole 60-cycle generators can be eliminated by equalizing the rigidity constants on the two axes. This can be accomplished without introducing any reduction in flux capacity by machining narrow transverse slots in the body of the poles. The double-frequency vibratory forces inherent in two-pole generator stators cannot be eliminated. It is further believed that acceptable results cannot be economically obtained by reducing the air-gap magnetic densities and increasing the rigidity of the stator core over that normally obtained when magnetic conditions are adequately satisfied. Also the stator vibration is not of an amplitude considered to be harmful; consequently, the most practical solution is to isolate the stator core by means of flexible supports, and thus materially reduce the magnitude of the disturbing forces transmitted to the stator frame, foundation supports, and associated apparatus."
"The following paper deals with the approach and the results obtained by advanced engineering technique applied to a few of the problems in large high-speed turbogenerator rotor design. Research and design details incidental to yoke vibrations, application of hydrogen for ventilation, etc., may be dealt with in a future paper."
"This paper describes a d-c amplifier for use with the cathode-ray oscillograph whose maximum voltage amplification is 6×106. This amplification is attained with a noise level referred to the input of less than two microvolts over a 5,000-cycle-per-second band, and without the drift due to variations in battery voltages and circuit constants characteristic of such amplifiers. The amplifier is push-pull throughout and provides a choice of two input circuits. Voltage sources in which both terminals are at a high impedance to ground are connected grid-to-grid, symmetrically to ground, while sources in which one terminal is at ground potential are connected to either grid and ground, the first stage, in this case, acting as a phase inverter. Stability and phase inversion are obtained by means of a circuit that makes the output relatively independent of battery voltage and tube-constant variation. The amplifier is simple and rugged, uses ordinary radio-type tubes which do not have to be carefully matched, is constructed of ordinary radio-type components, and has reasonable battery requirements."
"This paper sets forth briefly two general procedures that may be followed in starting the system of the Philadelphia Electric Company after a complete shutdown, and also gives some experiences relating to re-establishing service. There is also included an outline of some of the major principles of design followed in the development of the system which are important in minimizing the chance of a complete system shutdown and in facilitating restoration of service in the event of a complete outage."
"The bulk power system of The Detroit Edison Company is designed and operated in five power-plant load areas. These load areas are ``loose linked'' to prevent uncontrollable trouble in any one of them causing a total shutdown. The internal design of the load areas is arranged to permit of ready sectionalizing in event of serious area shutdowns, thereby permitting the load to be picked up in small pieces. Such sectionalizing is practicable because the distribution lines are largely radial, that is, are not connected together beyond the substation. A limited amount of experience data are given on the behavior of generators under instantaneously applied loads. The rationale of emergency operating is developed and the special instructions outlined."
"The AIEE joint committee on bushings has attempted to determine the electrical characteristics of bushings on an engineering basis. The recommendations in this report are based on the theory that an ample margin of insulation strength should be provided above the voltages to which the bushings may be subjected in service, including dynamic overvoltages, switching surges, and lightning surges up to the level of protection which can be provided with modern lightning protective devices. This should make it possible to use bushings having the same electrical characteristics for transformers, circuit breakers, and all types of apparatus of corresponding voltage ratings because, if bushings have an ample margin of insulation strength above the level of protection which can be provided, there should be no need for any higher insulation strength for bushings in circuit breakers than in transformers or other apparatus. Lower values of insulation strength may be assigned for bushings for small circuit breakers, distribution transformers, etc., where space or other limitations may require smaller bushings and where a smaller margin of protection may be satisfactory. The joint committee is continuing the study of bushings and will make additional recommendations covering indoor bushings as soon as agreement can be reached. They may also make recommendations covering bushings for lower-voltage ratings and possibly other characteristics of outdoor bushings."
"A transient fundamental-frequency torque is shown to occur in the starting of all induction motors. For full-voltage starting on a general-purpose squirrel-cage motor, this torque may be as high as two or three times the pull-out torque. A consideration of such torques is particularly advisable for cases where induction motors are started and stopped frequently or continuously, since under such conditions mechanical failure of the motor or associated parts, gearing, couplings, etc., may occur if the stresses exceed the endurance limit of the material. A method of analysis is given for calculating the transient electrical torques acting in the case of a locked rotor; the results obtained by means of this analysis are compared with test data obtained on a special locked-rotor test setup. A method is also given for calculating shaft torque from the electrical torque in the usual application. Test results also indicate that this method is satisfactory for practical use."
"1. Apparatus has been developed which is suitable for the measurement at low voltages of the d-c conductances of electrical insulating oils. 2. The change of d-c conductance with time of a highly refined oil has been found to substantiate the theory. that low-voltage methods do measure the true d-c conductance of electrical insulating oils. 3. The change in the conductance of this oil is shown to be a function of VXt, V being the applied voltage, and t the length of time of application. 4. D-c measurements have been compared with a-c measurements on a low-viscosity oil and low-voltage d-c measurements have been shown to account for all of the a-c loss in the oil thereby again leading to the conclusion that the low-voltage methods developed in this paper do measure the true d-c conductance of electrical insulating oils."
"A power-factor and capacitance bridge capable of unattended recording has been described. Changes in the specimen may be fully recorded within one second of their occurrence. The bridge may be used in connection with life tests, during treating processes, and for recording tests on large numbers of nominally identical structures, in the process of production. The automatic control circuits described in this paper are not limited only to application to the Schering bridge, but may be used for automatic balancing of practically any other type of a-c bridge as well."
"The practice of loading transformers by temperature is growing among operators who desire to take advantage of the additional capacity offered by this method of loading. The standards now recognize continuous overloads in cool ambients and short-time overloads under recurrent and emergency conditions. The paper discusses the effects of different shapes of system load factors on the aging of the insulation. Then the ones that result in the greatest amount of aging are used for determining the permissible peak loads that can be carried safely with the same deterioration of its insulation as results from continuous operation at rated kilovolt-amperes. A rational method of calculating the hot-spot temperature is shown by means of examples using a general average ``time constant''. The hot-spot temperature curve is then integrated to compare the aging with a given constant temperature. From these results it is concluded that a normal power transformer can be overloaded 3 per cent for each 10 per cent that the system load factor is below 100 per cent. That is, for a 50 per cent load factor the permissible peak load is 15 per cent over the transformer rating in a standard ambient. For low ambients where 1 per cent overload for each degree that the ambient is below 30 degrees is now permitted, the permissible peak loads will vary depending on ambient and on load factor."
"Certain squirrel-cage motors are known to have a wide variation in starting torque depending on the angular position of the rotpor. In extreme cases the torque may be actually negative at certain positions making the motor entirely useless. Various names such as ``dead points,'' ``cogging,'' and ``locking'' torque have been used to describe this condition but no detailed study of its mechanism appears to be available. An analysis of the causes of such behavior is presented here as one of several phenomena not covered by classical theory since they arise from the nonsinusoidal nature of the air-gap field. It is shown (1) that only with certain definite relations of slot numbers can dead points exist at all, and (2) that, given one of these vulnerable slot combinations, the amplitude of the torque variation moves over an extremely wide range as the coil span is changed. The effect of coil span is not merely that due to the numerical change of harmonic chord factor but is shown to be the result of changes of direction of the various component forces. Test results confirming the analysis are included. It now becomes possible to correlate a great many apparently divergent results and to avoid troublesome combinations in future designs."
"a man-made island of 400 acres which President Roosevelt has referred to as our latest insular possession, architects, artists, and engineers have constructed a magic walled city about an architectural plan that combines the ancient designs of Burmese, Cambodian, Incan, Mayan, and other Pacific cultures into the unique and surprisingly beautiful Golden Gate International Exposition. One and a half million dollars· spent on landscaping and another million dollars worth of sculptures, murals, and decorations have made of it a \"Garden of Paradise\" and a comprehensive artistic architectural unit rather than a disconnected assemblage of exhibit buildings. To design the lighting for such a composition requires that the engineer approach his problem with tolerance toward the view of others. The lighting must be in harmony with the work of the architects, artists, sculptors, and horticulturists, and strictly engineering considerations subordinated in many instances to those of aesthetics. This spirit of compromise between the science and art of illumination will be noted in the effects described in this paper."
"The trend toward electrical means of providing timing for motor control is evidenced in the use of capacitor-timed relays and contactors. Though employed for some time in welding applications, the advent of capacitor timing in the motor control field is fairly recent. The general analytical considerations are presented, followed by a discussion of the component parts of the timer. Some attention is paid to limitations, particularly in regard to the effect of line voltage fluctuations."
"This paper, emanating from a request for information regarding surge voltages required to break down gaps in oil, gives surge breakdown voltage values with different gap spacings for ¼-inch, ½-inch, and 1-inch round rod electrodes with hemispherical ends immersed in transformer oil. As expected, these values are a function of ``time to breakdown'' but for each condition curves show constant breakdown values for breakdown times of the order of about 16 microseconds and longer with the 1½ × 40 negative wave, used on all the tests reported. Particular attention is called to the relatively small amount of oil required for tests of this type, made possible by the special type of test barrel used."
"The use of electricity in refineries has increased tremendously in the last decade; this increase can be primarily traced to: 1. Development of equipment that is suitable for use in refinery atmospheres. 2. Development of improved mechanical equipment. 3. Development of generating equipment of industrial size having suitable operating economies. 4. General advance in the engineering arts. 5. Development of increasingly complex refinery processes."
"The increasing demand for oilless circuit breakers has resulted in a number of contributions in that field. Outstanding among these from the standpoint of interrupting capacity at generator voltages is the ``hydro-blast'' circuit breaker, which has been developed in ratings up to 1,500,000 kva. This breaker has the feature of complete interchangeability with the standard H-type oil circuit breaker and thus combines all of the well-known advantages of that type with the total absence of inflammable material. This paper describes in detail the construction and operation of the 500,000-kva hydro-blast circuit breaker for central-station service, several of which have been in service for over half a year."
"Investigation reveals the moving systems of induction watt-hour meters to be in a peculiar state of motion under the condition of potential excitation only. The present paper offers a simple explanation for its origin and provides a method for recording and determining the actual value of the motion in various parts of the moving system. Interesting conclusions may be drawn from the investigation which throw much light on the problem of meter-bearing performance."
"Starting from the canonical equations of a general, linear, bilateral network and by the application of transformation matrices, giving the various current constraints in typical polyphase systems, equations are obtained which give the response of the most general wye-wye, delta-delta, and delta-wye static systems to arbitrary electromotive forces at the sending and receiving ends. Mutual inductances and capacitances are assumed between the various branches of the circuits. The paper is concluded with a brief exposition of the method of symmetrical components from the transformation point of view and an application to the general wye-wye circuit is given as an example."
"The principal factors involved in the design and application of direct-acting voltage regulators and their relations to each other are discussed in this paper. The mathematical method used for deriving these relations is outlined. Definite conclusions are drawn concerning proper operation and design of this type of regulator."
"This paper briefly describes the nature and purpose of the various groups of operated in connection with railway service over the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge. Following this description is an explanation of the method used in determining the lengths of signal blocks and calculating safe braking distances throughout the project. It is hoped that the presentation of this paper will lead to further discussion and research concerning the braking of trains of this type."
"A new technique used in the production of lead sheaths for electric power cables is introduced. The various phases of the problem and the difficulties encountered heretofore are described. It has been found that it is necessary to consider the problem both as a mechanical and a chemical one. A method is described in which both factors are used. This consists in pretreating lead as received with a sodium-lead alloy to remove all deleterious impurities and the use of a special standpipe procedure for filling the lead-press extrusion cylinder to obtain a complete union of successive charges, resulting in sound lead sheaths throughout the entire cable length. Test data show that the physical and corrosion properties of lead are not adversely affected by the sodium treatment."
"This paper embodies the relevant agreed recommendations of the Joint Co-ordination Committee on Radio Reception of EEI, NEMA, and RMA, as to the nature, essential characteristics, and performance of an instrument for the measurement of radio-noise voltages. It further gives detailed descriptions of the recommended practices for measuring radio noise directly from low-and high-voltage apparatus, for making noise measurements along overhead lines, for determining broadcast field-strength levels, and methods of collecting data for the establishment of radio-noise standards."
"This paper summarizes the recognized methods for reducing at the source man-made radio noises. The effectiveness of the different controlling methods is discussed in the light of efficiency and utility. The use of shunt-type filters and choke coils is so broad that this paper is confined to the more important applications of these controlling devices. Filter methods are so important that specific applications are discussed in detail. The application of these devices to other apparatus is governed by the type, location, and use of the apparatus."
"Fundamental principles of magnetic action and thermal reaction have been united in an original manner to create a new circuit interrupter, the ``Magne-Blast'' air circuit breaker. Intended for general applications in switching, controlling, and protecting 2,300- to 5,000-volt circuits, this breaker, throughout a comprehensive test program, has proved satisfactory in every requirement. An open presentation of test results shows how an efficient arc chute functions thermally to decay and extinguish the arc with a minimum of voltage disturbance. The breaker is immune to circuit recovery characteristics. Principles of performance are discussed using the familiar terms of current, voltage, resistance, and reactance in showing their effect on the instantaneous values of phase angle, current reduction, and the attendant rates of rise of recovery voltage. The coordinated electrical and mechanical design is described in some detail and a typical arrangement is shown as used in a metalclad equipment."
"Compared to a mechanical drive, the d-c variable-voltage transmission has several important advantages. These are: 1. Loads may be picked up smoothly and handled smoothly over a wide range of controlled speeds. 2. Flexibility as to: location of equipment; number, type, and capacity of prime movers; and combining of two equipments. 3. Lower maintenance of power plant and transmission due to elimination of abuses incident to clutch manipulation. 4. More continuous drilling due to elimination of delays incident to clutch manipulation, to inherent operating characteristics, and to less time out for repairs. In view of such advantages drilling costs should be less."
"Impulse-voltage testing of electrical apparatus and circuits is a steadily growing practice and constant attention is therefore being given to improvements in testing methods. Accordingly, as progress is made it is necessary to describe recent changes. This paper presents a brief discussion of the present situation, describes some improvements in technique of surge analysis of apparatus and circuits, and in equipment for the generation and measurement of test surges."
"The amplifiers of multichannel telephone systems must be so designed with regard to output capacity that interchannel interference caused by amplifier overloading will not be serious. Probability theory is applied to this problem to determine the maximum single-frequency output power which a multichannel amplifier should be designed to transmit as a function of N, the number of channels in the system. The theory is developed to include the effects of statistical variations in the number of simultaneous talkers, in the talking volumes, and in the instantaneous voltages from speech at constant volume."
"An instability curve of series impedance versus voltage common to the parallel branch of the circuit as in figure 1 can be calculated approximately. If this curve contains maximum and minimum points the circuit will have two states of stability with an intermediate unstable range. Some practical use of this phenomenon has been suggested for circuit control and energy conversion. The circuit which produces reciprocating motion has not been completely analyzed, hence the optimum operating conditions cannot be stated until further knowledge is obtained."
"The National Electrical Manufacturers' Association classification of resistors for motor starting and speed control specifies the initial current peaks and the duty cycle for which the resistor must be designed. The nature of the load driven by the motor decides the valley current at which succeeding resistor steps must be switched in starting, and consequently the number of steps in the resistor, and points in the controller. The rms current, and the time each step is in the circuit, taken in conjunction with the cyclic current-carrying capacity of individual resistor elements, determines the selection of the elements on the basis of their continuous-current rating. It is usual to assume an rms current of 125 per cent, and switching at equal time intervals. However, in this paper, formulas are developed for more accurately calculating these values, and the formulas and necessary constants are tabulated. Consideration is given to d-c shunt and series-connected motors, and to wound-rotor a-c induction motors. Resistors for regulating duty are also discussed."
"In the following representative welder installations, several types of feeder distribution systems are represented. Two of the companies employ a bus system to which the individual welders can be readily and quickly connected or disconnected. Tap points are available at regular intervals and the welding machines can be moved around from season to season with very little expense. The same is true, to a lesser degree, of the wire or cable feeders used by the other companies. This type of feeder does not lend itself quite so readily to frequent changes in plant layout, but is generally cheaper and easier to install. The bus system employing the concentric arrangement of copper tubes will be found to have the lowest voltage drop, and where this factor is of major consideration this type of feeder is of highest efficiency. In installations where the equivalent thermal loading is high, this type of construction may be unsatisfactory since the heat radiation or conduction from the inside conductor is comparatively low. However, should it become necessary, cooling air can be forced through the inner conductor thus raising its load capacity. The system of interlaced copper bus bars, usually has a high load capacity, but gives a slightly higher voltage drop than the concentric construction. The system of cable construction is of course the simplest, since the problems of insulation are minimized. In general this type of construction gives a higher voltage drop and lower load capacity than either of the above types."
"A radio system for upper-air weather soundings with small unmanned balloons is described. The balloon instrument comprises elements for measuring pressure, temperature, and humidity, and a miniature radio transmitter; the latter converts the response of the measuring instruments into characteristic signals modulating the emitted radio wave and sends this wave to a ground station where the signals are measured and recorded. Details of the system are given and a discussion is given of the accuracy of the upper-air observations obtained and of the tolerances permissible for component elements of the system."
"The reliability of wood-pole transmission lines during the lightning season has long been a problem with operating companies. To meet the ever increasing service demands approximately 60 miles of line were reconstructed using the inherent insulation of a wood-pole line with lightning protector tubes on one of three conductors. Two years' experience with this type of construction has shown better than a 90 per cent reduction in lightning outages."
"Radiation is generally of importance only in apparatus cooled by natural convection and radiation. If such apparatus with a smooth exterior surface is mounted in the sun and shielded from the wind, an additional rise as high as 20 degrees centigrade may occur. White or gray nonmetallic paints may decrease solar effects. Fins and corrugations increase the ratio of convected to radiated heat and thereby decrease radiant effects."
"The phenomena occurring at the closing and opening of contacts carrying weak currents have been investigated by means which include a study of the high-frequency transient voltages and currents. These influence the erosion in a complex manner which varies with contact materials, surface conditions, and surrounding atmosphere. Three principal classes of effect have been distinguished. These are: (1) Disruptive spark-overs initiating a series of metallic arcs lasting less than a microsecond each. (2) A nitrogen-gas glow discharge at about 300 volts, preceded by a brief group of disruptive spark-overs. (3) High field breakdowns due to cold point discharges which cause transient metallic closures of approaching contacts and similar transient reclosures of separating contacts."
"The application of traction motors is based fundamentally on speed-time curve calculations. This method has been used for many years and is familiar to electrical engineers engaged primarily in transportation activities. Many other engineers infrequently encounter problems of traction-motor application but are not conversant with the effect which variations in service conditions produce on vehicle performance. This paper points out certain recent changes in transportation requirements tending toward greater standardization of equipment, and summarizes the effects of varying operating conditions. The broad basis of economical application is indicated."
"It is found experimentally that the efficiency of condensation of mercury vapor on cold metal surfaces is quite low. The condensing efficiency of steel surfaces is increased several fold by positive-ion bombardment of the surface. Nickel surfaces condense mercury vapor several times as efficiently as steel. The operation of a high-voltage ignitron rectifier was greatly improved by positive-ion bombardment of the condensing surfaces."
"Electric-power loads are increasing rapidly on airplanes and auxiliary-engine-driven generators offer dependable power sources independent of main engines, Minimum weight for the required capacity is essential in the design of generators, motors, and control. The a-c 110-volt 400-cycle three-phase system has been developed for large airplanes with heavy motor loads. Alternators rating 12.5 kva at 75 per cent power factor and two-pole motors running at 22,500 rpm full-load speed are available. Control apparatus builds up the alternator, establishes accurate voltage regulation, and provides direct current for excitation and battery charging. The 24-volt system is applied on airplanes using d-c power which have relatively light motor loads. Generators rate 5 kw and are designed for speeds ranging from 3,200 to 6,000 rpm to conform to prime-mover requirements. Motors have been built which run at 7,500 rpm. The control effectively regulates the voltage, handles battery charging, and provides for starting the power plant."
"Data are presented on impulse-voltage breakdown values obtained on oil-treated paper-insulated cables over the insulation thickness range from 0.187 inch to 0.600 inch. The average stress at breakdown approximates 1,600-1,700 volts per mil. High-density papers show some superiority over ordinary-density papers. Cathode-ray oscillograms of the testing wave (1½×40 impulse wave-positive polarity) before and at breakdown are included for a typical test."
"We recapitulate here principal developments of the past decade in the problem of low-frequency induction, with remarks on the resulting present status and future plans for study of different phases of the problem. GENERAL 1. Studies of effects in actual low-frequency inductive exposures have been useful in developing general procedural methods, but have indicated the need of further work on certain items, with reference particularly to facilitating the appraisal of proposed situations in advance of construction. INFLUENCE 2. In the calculation of residual currents, the more important gaps have been filled by the experimental determinations of the impedance of ground-faults on operating systems, and of the impedance and admittances of lines (especially cables). 3. In residual-current limitation, probably the most interesting development is the installation, within the last three years, of about 30 Petersen coils. The Petersen coil generally limits residual currents to small values. Little or on change in the status of other methods of fault-current limitation has taken place. As heretofore, the application of fault-current limitation is primarily a matter of its reaction on power-systems operation, although developments have somewhat simplified this question. 4. Frequency of occurrence of ground faults has been reduced by improvements in the insulation of power lines, including improved ground-wire application and features of structural design. In the reduction of duration of ground faults, the protector tube is probably the most important development from the standpoint of low-frequency induction."
"Electric couplings have recently been applied on a large scale in geared Diesel ship drives to couple the engines to the gear. They serve a threefold purpose by acting as a flexible coupling to keep the torsional vibration of the engine out of the gears, as a disconnecting clutch to enable any engine to be cut out of service, and as an aid in maneuvering. A typical large coupling built for marine service is described, and the general principles and characteristics of this type of device are given. Results of tests taken to confirm the calculated characteristics are included. The operation of the coupling as in aid in maneuvering is described. A summary of applications to date is given with a discussion of possible applications other than ship drive."
"Ionizing radiation has been discovered to be present in spark gaps of the type commonly used in commercial lightning arresters for the last 15 years. This radiation is emitted from discharges near the insulator-electrode contacts, when impulse voltage is applied to the gap. Ionization is produced by the absorption of this radiation in the spark gap. This effectively reduces the time lag of breakdown. The presence of this radiation explains why higher impulse breakdown voltages are obtained with a sphere gap in the dark than with a lightning-arrester spark gap with porcelain spacer. The radiation effect observed here is similar to that investigated by Wynn-Williams in the three-point gap. This paper tells of experiments performed to determine the reason for the low impulse ratios observed with rutile-spacer spark gaps. The results of this study explain the reason for the low impulse ratio of the ``quench gap'' and the ``ionization gap'' utilized in lightning arresters. This new information aids in understanding why low impulse ratios are obtained in high-voltage lightning-arrester spark gaps."
"This paper gives the results of tests made principally to determine the effect of 6- and 12-phase mercury-arc powe-rectifier loads on the performance of typical polyphase watt-hour meters. Schematic diagrams of the connections used and oscillograms of the rectifier voltage and current waves are included. The results indicate that the effect to be expected will be well within one per cent."
"The canonical equations of a general, linear, bilateral symmetrical network of n meshes on which are impressed Laplacian transformation. The transformed equations are then subjected to a symmetrical component transformation. By the use of these transformations the transient behavior of an n mesh symmetrical network subject to impressed arbitrary voltages and initial currents and charges is readily obtained. The solution of the usual determinantal equation is avoided."
"A watt-hour meter on intermittent loads of a particular character may have a registration error. The magnitude of error is a function of the meter design, the periodicity of the intermittent component of load, ratio of intermittent component to total load, character of intermittent component, power factor of load, and adjustment of the friction compensation. The registration characteristic of a meter on most types of intermittent load can be predicted from the acceleration and deceleration curves for the meter disk."
"This paper presents a theory of noise generation particularly adapted to use with small motors. Since single-phase motors predominate in the small-motor field, a single-phase point of view has been employed. The underlying philosophy of the paper is to reduce the theory to simplest terms and to concentrate attention upon the most probable sources of noise. While the results are shown as a large collection of numbers representing force waves the development steps of the theory are really simple and easily understood. The resultant air-gap flux wave in an induction motor is the difference between the fundamental stator flux plus its harmonics and the fundamental rotor flux plus its harmonics. The difference between the two fundamental fluxes is usually less than the larger one and often less than either one but the harmonics, with few exceptions, are neither of the same velocity nor space order and, therefore, do not add or subtract from each other It follows that the resultant flux wave has more harmonics of much greater per-unit amplitude than does either the stator or rotor flux wave alone. It is the interaction of two large harmonic flux waves of slightly different space order and traveling at high frequency with respect to each other that causes high-frequency magnetic-force waves of long space pitch which are effective in producing noise. The theory has been used for some time in noise investigations and has been found to bear out test results on a large number of motors."
"Up to the present time, the only data generally available to protection engineers for determining the performance of current transformers have been the ratio and phase-angle curves of the current transformers in question. More detailed analysis sis of important high-speed differential protection problems has shown that these data are hopelessly inadequate for the purpose of determining the performance of current transformers during the starting period when the current wave may be fully offset. If the time constant for decay of the d-c component exceeds 0.05 second, large errors of transformation may be expected if standard current transformers are used. While it is possible to make special designs that will not saturate because of the d-c component in the current,1 such designs are usually considerably oversize and expensive. Furthermore, space requirements and economy sometimes dictate that current transformers already installed be used if at all possible, even though it is known that their performance will be far from perfect. The problem then becomes one of determining the actual performance of existing current transformers, so that a suitable relay scheme may be chosen. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the solution of this problem, and to present approximate methods of calculation not hitherto available. Attention is also given to the proper interpretation of the calculations with respect to relay operations, together with supporting test results."
"By using the prestored energy of compressed air for the twofold function of circuit interruption and circuit-breaker operation, a new and original oilless circuit interrupter has been evolved. This air- blast circuit breaker has a guillotine-like arc- interrupting characteristic and can be made practically immune to the adverse effects of circuit recovery voltage. The historical background of oilless circuit breakers is discussed with particular reference to European designs. The electrical and mechanical design of air-blast circuit breakers for indoor use and the factors affecting that design, are described in some detail."
"The designs of European air-blast circuit breakers are not wholly satisfactory for operation in the United States as they do not handle high enough currents, cannot economically be built for high enough interrupting capacities, and do not conform to United States installation arrangements. Accordingly, a new type of air cross-blast circuit breaker has been developed which does conform to the above requirements. The commercial design of this circuit breaker is discussed in a companion paper ``Design and Construction of High-Capacity Air-Blast Circuit Breakers'' by Messrs. H. E. Strang and A. C. Boisseau, and the present paper analyzes the theory of performance of the foreign and cross-blast circuit breakers, and presents evidence from a number of sources which throw light on the method of operation. The circuit breaker is found to operate predominately on the displacement theory. The nature of its performance makes it much less sensitive to recovery rate and high currents and much more economical in air consumption than air-blast breakers previously available."
"The theory of quenching an arc by deionizing the normally conducting arc stream, utilizing a gas blast produced by means of an intense transverse magnetic field, is elaborated. Application of design principles dictated by this theory has made it possible to develop a new form of air circuit breaker for 2,500-5,000-volt service. These breakers are completely described, the theory of the De-ion interrupters is discussed, and test results are submitted. The problem of adequately enclosing the breakers is considered and it is shown that excellent interruption can be obtained in an enclosure of small over-all dimensions."
"The demand for oilless circuit breakers of large interrupting capacity to meet the requirements of American practice directs attention toward an improved compressed-air circuit breaker which materially extends the present limitations as exemplified by continental designs. A brief historical review of the trend toward oilless-circuit-breaker development is given. The comparison is made of the available methods of circuit interruption in air. The particular applicability of compressed air is stressed and a new circuit interrupter is described which can reach an interrupting capacity of 1,500,000 kva at 15,000 volts, Among the outstanding features of this interrupter are extremely high operating speed and rapid interruption with minimum energy dissipation. Test results are given indicating the adequacy of this type of design."
"This paper is a presentation and discussion of the more important results obtained in a series of extensive tests made on bushing current transformers. In addition to the determination of the ratio and phase-angle characteristics, tests were made to determine the division of current in interconnected secondary circuits for conditions simulating actual faults in the primary circuit. It is also shown that most of the results obtained from the tests may be readily calculated from the excitation-current data."
"Conventional methods used for defining and comparing current-transformer performances are commonly based on their ratio and phase-angle characteristics. For years, these characteristics have been continuously improved, particularly with respect to the requirements for metering service. However, from the standpoint of circuit protection, current-transformer application becomes more involved and as a result, increased attention has been given it. A better knowledge of transformer performance is necessitated by the requirements of new relays and protective schemes. Attention to the influence of the d-c component in short-circuit transients is especially necessary when using high-speed relays. Also, in differential connections, the necessity for equivalent matching of saturation characteristics is essential. These are illustrations of the types of problems which ratio and phase- angle characteristics alone do not solve. The analysis of open-circuit saturation curves has proved of immense value in the solution of these problems. This paper gives results of investigations on bushing-type transformers that indicate the proper choice of analysis procedure and the limitations of the various methods for determining performance under overcurrent operating conditions."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Two-Pole Generators. The unequal mechanical rigidity of the rotor body on the two major axes and unequal magnetic forces on any two major axes of the stator core produce vibrations in two-pole generators that become of increasing importance in 3,600-rpm units of relatively large capacity; the disturbing force may be eliminated or the vibration restricted to isolated parts (Transactions pages 30–4). Critical speeds of rotors may be predetermined analytically and stresses determined by the photoelastic method; control of bearing lubrication promises increased efficiency (Transactions pages 51–6)."
"AS A TOPIC I have chosen the epoch of transcontinental telephony because it was 25 years ago last July that the first transcontinental circuit carried its first conversation, and it is 25 years ago this January that the first transcontinental line, which consisted of three circuits, was opened for public use. My choice, however, is based upon much more than a mere desire to commemorate a now far-off event, propitious though such a gesture may be. I hope that I can portray this early telephone line for what it was in fact — the progenitor of much that has taken place in the last 25 years in a very active sector of electrical engineering. It marked the dawn of a new era in electrical communication."
"This report of the AIEE committee on power generation∗ reviews practices and developments in this field since 1933, when the last progress report of the committee was published. It divides itself naturally into three main parts discussing steam, electric, and hydroelectric plant practice. A comprehensive bibliography is appended."
"A COMPACT GROUP of seven Westinghouse De-ion air circuit breakers, with interrupting rating of 13,850 amperes, controls the 3-phase 60-cycle 4,150-volt circuits for auxiliary drives serving a 200,000-pound-per-hour boiler and the 20,000-kw turbine at the Blount Street station of the Madison (Wis.) Gas and Electric Company. Based upon ten months' service, the maximum number of operations of any one breaker has been about 553 and the number of average automatic openings of all breakers 341."
"IF AIR were not an insulator, the generation, transmission, and utilization of electric power would be beset with almost insurmountable difficulties. For example, lamp sockets or any other exposed portion of the electric wiring in homes would support no voltage and would carry no current to lamps or other electrical appliances. In the powerhouse conditions would be even worse, unless perhaps the generators were placed in a high vacuum. If humans lived in a water medium, as fish do, the comforts electricity has provided almost certainly never would have been known. Perhaps the only advantage of a conducting medium would be the complete elimination of lightning, for then the clouds would not become charged. Conducting air, however, would be a high price to pay for removal of the danger of lightning."
"FOR temporary buildings, an unprecedented amount of equipment for vertical and horizontal transportation has been provided in the exhibit buildings at the New York World's Fair. Thirteen exhibits have among them 21 elevators and 16 electric stairways. General Motors Building has three elevators and four electric stairways, and the spectator conveyer for the “Futurama” (see article in December 1939 issue). The French Building has five elevators and four electric stairways; the Russian Building, five elevators and two electric stairways; the Theme Building, two electric stairways, one of them the longest in the United States. The American Telephone and Telegraph Building and the Westinghouse Building each have two electric stairways, and the Italian Building has two elevators. Six other buildings — British, Ford Motor, Petroleum Industry, Rumanian, United States Government, and World's Fair Headquarters have one elevator each. The Ford Motor Company also offers direct transportation through part of its exhibit by automobile."
"Recent progress in various phases of electrical insulation research was reflected in the 26 progress reports informally presented at the 12th annual meeting of the Conference on Electrical Insulation of National Research Council, held November 2–4, 1939, at Cambridge, Mass., and reported briefly in the December issue, page 526. One of the four sessions was devoted to chemistry and physics; one to measurements; and two to materials. As was true of last year's sessions, the emphasis was on research in the fundamentals of electrical insulation rather than on applications to practice, although the Conference continued in its unique position of effectively bringing together the active representatives of both the scientific and the “practical” groups interested in the general subject. Brief abstracts reflecting the high lights of the various reports presented are given on this and the following three pages, all based upon abstracts prepared by the respective authors."
"TECHNICAL sessions of broad current interest, attractive social events, and a particularly stimulating group of inspection trips have been arranged for the 1940 AIEE winter convention, which will be held in New York, N. Y., January 22–26, with headquarters in the Engineering Societies Building. Papers presenting new treatments of existing theories, new designs of electrical apparatus, and the latest in operating practice will be presented in 18 technical sessions, during the mornings and afternoons. Evenings will be occupied by the presentation of the Edison and Hoover Medals, a popular lecture, and the annual smoker and dinner-dance. In addition, eight unusual inspection trips have been planned, and special entertainment for the women guests has been arranged."
"Photo-offset copies of authors' manuscripts, except addresses, may be obtained in advance of the convention by writing to the AIEE Order Department, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. Only numbered papers will be available in advance copy form. If ordered by mail, price 10¢ per copy; if purchased at Institute headquarters or at the convention, 5¢ per copy. Mail orders (particularly from out-of-town members) are advisable, inasmuch as an adequate supply of each paper at the meeting cannot be assured. Coupon books in $1.00 and $5.00 denominations are available for those who wish to avoid remittance by check or otherwise. Most of the papers ultimately will be published in Electrical Engineering or the Transactions."
"An inspection trip to the newly opened New York Municipal Airport will include a 75-mile air trip for a limited number, a tour of the landplane administration building and three hangars (1) and an inspection of the glass enclosed control tower atop the administration building (2)"
"The Alfred Noble prize for 1939 has been awarded to C.E. Shannon (A'39) assistant in mathematics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, for his paper \"A Symbolic Analysis of Relay and Switching Circuits.\" The paper, an abstract of a thesis for master's degree, prepared while the author was a research assistant at MIT and a student member of the Institute, was presented at the AIEE summer convention, Washington, DC, USA, June 20-24, 1938, and published in the 1938 TRANSACTIONS, pages 713-23. A biographical sketch of Mr. Shannon appears in the \"Personal Items\" section of this issue, page 48. Formal presentation of the award will be made at the AIEE winter convention to be held in New York, NY, January 22-26."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"RETIREMENT of Gerard Swope (A'99, F'22) president, and Owen D. Young, chairman of the board, was announced at a recent meeting of the directors of the General Electric Company. New officers elected at that time, who assumed their duties January 1, are Charles E. Wilson, formerly executive vice-president, who becomes president, and Philip D. Reed, formerly assistant to the president, who becomes chairman of the board. Shown here from left to right are Mr. Young, Mr. Reed, Mr. Swope, and Mr. Wilson. Mr. Wilson began his career in 1899 as office boy for Sprague Electric Company, former constituent company of G.E., and has since served in most functions of the organization and in many capacities, becoming executive vice-president in 1937. Mr. Reed, who is an electrical-engineering graduate (University of Wisconsin, 1921) and a member of Tau Beta Pi, holds the degree of doctor of laws from Fordham University. He entered General Electric's law department in 1926, and was made assistant to the president in 1937. Mr. Young and Mr. Swope, both of whom assumed their positions in 1922, have been made respectively honorary chairman of the board and honorary president. A biographical sketch of Mr. Swope appears on page 47."
"Organization of the special joint committee formed to consider the future form and scope of American Engineering Council took place at its first meeting, held November 27, 1939, in New York, N. Y. The group, appointed at the suggestion of Council's president and executive committee, includes three representatives of each of the three founder societies that are Council's chief supporters — the American Society of Civil Engineers, The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers — plus three men representing AEC. All members were present and, in addition, Council's President William McClellan and Secretary F. M. Feiker."
"Rubber-Insulation Standard Withdrawn. Under date of August 11, 1939, the American Standards Association issued notice that on recommendation of sectional committee C8, “Insulated Wires and Cables,” the American Standard entitled “Specifications for Class A 30 Per Cent Rubber Insulation for Wire and Cable for General Purposes,” C8.4 (1936) has been withdrawn. The action of the ASA is based on the fact that the standard had dropped out of general use, having been displaced by C8.17 “Class OA 30 Per Cent Rubber Insulation for Wire and Cable for General Purposes.”"
"F. M. Feiker (M'34) since 1934 executive secretary of American Engineering Council, has been appointed dean of engineering of George Washington University, Washington, D. C., according to an announcement received as this issue of Electrical Engineering goes to press. A biographical sketch of Doctor Feiker will appear in the February issue."
"Stanley Sylvester Seyfert (A'05, M'13) head of the department of electrical engineering, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa., died December 11, 1939. He was born March 19, 1881, at Strausstown, Pa., and received the degrees of bachelor of science, 1902, Kutztown State Teachers College; electrical engineer, 1904, master of science, 1909, Lehigh University; doctor of science, 1932. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He joined the electrical-engineering department at Lehigh in 1904 as instructor, becoming assistant professor in 1909, associate professor, 1914, and professor, 1928. Since 1932 he had been head of the department and director of the curriculum. He was engineer for the Blue Mountain Electric Company, Bethel, Pa., 1907–17, and secretary and treasurer, 1917–27. He made a number of contributions to technical literature, held several patents, and was also a member of the Institute of Radio Engineers, Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, Tau Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu, and Sigma Xi."
"Nineteen years ago the Akron Section was formed, the members all being affiliated formerly with the Cleveland Section. Last March, the Mansfield Section was created from the previously organized Mansfield Division of the Cleveland Section. In view of the way the two younger Sections were formed, it was not surprising that the 1939–40 officers of all three Sections should strike on and quickly endorse the idea of holding an annual “family reunion.”"
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on December 21, 1939, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Electrical engineers may be interested in the following new books, which are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library, New York, N. Y. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the preface of the book in question."
"THE POWER required to drive the many types of textile machines has always been an important problem confronting the manufacturer of all the textile fibers, especially the cotton-goods manufacturer, who leads all other branches of the industry."
"Two unusual facts were disclosed during the field testing of the supervisory-control carrier-current channel on the 287-kv Boulder Dam-Los Angeles transmission lines. Carrier-current losses were much higher than calculations and previous experience had indicated. The interference from power equipment arcs could not be isolated by the use of resonant choke coils, requiring special circuit designs for satisfactory operation."
"ONE of the most radical innovations in the design of electrical machinery in recent years has been the adoption of hydrogen cooling for large turbine generators. Now that a number of the large hydrogen-cooled units are in operation, it would seem timely to review the experience gained in building and operating this new-type equipment."
"THIS is an interesting opportunity to speak to electrical engineers, to praise them for the excellent motors and controls which have helped us to improve the performances of machine tools, and yet to prod them a bit about a few features of their designs which are obstacles to a greater use of electrical equipment. This paper is thus a partial report to electrical designers describing some of the recent applications of electrical equipment to machine tools and outlining a few of the problems which have been encountered."
"The history of low-voltage air circuit breakers has paralleled the development of power distribution. The desire for improved contacts led from an automatic knife-switch type of circuit breaker to an air circuit breaker equipped with a laminated copper brush. The trend from d-c systems to polyphase a-c systems led from the “nontrip free” type of air circuit breaker to the “trip free” breaker; and now the requirements for low maintenance, safety of operation, increased continuity of service, together with the trend to steel enclosing of switchboards and individual devices, is being met by new air circuit breakers equipped with solid silver main contacts, alloy arcing tips, and a new type of arc interrupter herein described."
"THE two-pole turbine generator differs from similar generators with a higher number of poles, in that the mechanical rigidity of the rotor body varies from a maximum value on the pole axis to a minimum value on the winding axis, and the stator core is subjected to radial magnetic forces on only one diameter corresponding to the axis of the resultant magnetic field."
"HYDROGEN cooling for electrical machinery was first proposed to the industry through an AIEE paper presented in 1925.1 The first hydrogen-cooled machine to be placed in commercial service was a 12,500-kva synchronous condenser, installed in 1928.2 This was followed by other machines of this type, and later, the hydrogen-cooled frequency-converter was introduced. There are now in operation in the United States 20 of these two types of hydrogen-cooled machines, with a combined output of over one-half million kva, and their records of performance have been highly satisfactory. Prior to 1937, the application of hydrogen cooling to turbine generators had been confined to developmental machines in the manufacturers' plants, although several air-cooled generators had been built with provision for later adaptation to hydrogen cooling. In October 1937 the first hydrogen-cooled generator built for commercial service was placed in operation at Dayton, Ohio. This was a 3,600-rpm unit, of General Electric manufacture, rated at 31,250 kva at 0.8 power factor. Since then, a total of 10 hydrogen-cooled generators have been placed in service in various parts of the country, and 27 others are in the course of installation or construction. The total capacity of these 37 generators is over 2,000,000 kva, and their sizes range from 17,000 kva to 81,250 kva at 3,600 rpm, and from 75,000 kva to 176,470 kva at 1,800 rpm."
"The following paper deals with the approach and the results obtained by advanced engineering technique applied to a few of the problems in large high-speed turbogenerator rotor design. Research and design details incidental to yoke vibrations, application of hydrogen for ventilation, etc., may be dealt with in a future paper."
"A TEXTILE RANGE — the definition is offered for the benefit of those who may be unfamiliar with textile parlance — consists of a group of coordinated machines through which a continuous band of cloth is passed in rope or flat form (figure 1). Carrying on, in a group, the maximum number of operations of a textile finishing process which manufacturing conditions will permit lowers the cost of production by reducing the time and labor costs, and improved methods of driving such ranges may lead to still further increases in the production rate per unit of equipment, with attendant reduction in unit cost of production."
"This paper describes a d-c amplifier for use with the cathode-ray oscillograph whose maximum voltage amplification is 6 × 106. This amplification is attained with a noise level referred to the input of less than two microvolts over a 5,000-cycle-per-second band, and without the drift due to variations in battery voltages and circuit constants characteristic of such amplifiers. The amplifier is push-pull throughout and provides a choice of two input circuits. Voltage sources in which both terminals are at a high impedance to ground are connected grid-to-grid, symmetrically to ground, while sources in which one terminal is at ground potential are connected to either grid and ground, the first stage, in this case, acting as a phase inverter. Stability and phase inversion are obtained by means of a circuit that makes the output relatively independent of battery voltage and tube-constant variation. The amplifier is simple and rugged, uses ordinary radio-type tubes which do not have to be carefully matched, is constructed of ordinary radio-type components, and has reasonable battery requirements."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Electricity in Chemical Plants. Many chemical plants, which are among the largest industrial users of electric power, find electricity essential for obtaining the high temperatures required in their processes; in plants where the relatively low temperatures required may be obtained from steam, there are many opportunities for the production of inexpensive power for driving equipment, illumination, and other uses from combined steam and electric generating plants. Special precautions must be observed in selecting equipment because of the fire or corrosion hazards in most chemical plants (pages 77–83)."
"The fission of uranium, in which the uranium nucleus splits into two fragments of comparable size, achieved during 1939 by bombardment of uranium with neutrons, has stimulated great activity in this field of research and may lead to further research of fundamental and far-reaching importance."
"The electrochemical industry is said to be the only one that can absorb the large quantities of electric energy soon to become available from the many Federal irrigation and hydroelectric projects. As suitable raw materials for various processes are available at or near ail of the new power sites, the construction of one or more electrochemical plants at each of the new centers has been advocated, which will result in an increasing demand for engineers conversant in both electrical and chemical engineering. Young engineers now obtaining their training are urged to fit themselves to take advantage of these opportunities."
"RESULTS of a series of tests made on surfaces painted with 21 different commercial interior tints, under both mercury and incandescent illumination, should prove helpful in selecting colors for use with various types of lighting equipment. The tests were made by the lamp division of Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, under the supervision of S. G. Hibben (A'34) director of applied lighting."
"Behind the phenomenal growth of the electrical industry lies an important fact: “The industry has consistently accepted and adapted to its own use the new ideas and developments of science.”"
"IN PLANNING the recently completed installation of a new lighting system for the drafting rooms of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., the aim was to eliminate glare and obtain 40 to 50 foot-candles of totally indirect light. A study of the fixtures that were commercially available disclosed that approximately eight watts per square foot would be required to obtain the illumination level desired. The heat loss at this rate would have required an air-conditioning system to maintain a reasonable room temperature. The cost of this air-conditioning system would have been at least twice that of the proposed lighting system."
"The demand for increased amounts of sheet steel, together with revolutionary developments in manufacturing equipment and processes, has necessitated the installation of many new strip mills, and in some plants large blooming or slabbing mills to supply the heavy slabs used as raw material in the strip mills."
"AMERICAN engineers undoubtedly will be interested in some of the latest data and statistics on the use of a form of extra-high-voltage cable that has not yet been employed in America, namely, the pressure cable, which has been used in Europe since 1932 in increasing amounts. The main problem in high-voltage paper-insulated cable is the prevention of voids during contraction cycles when load is reduced. In an oil-filled cable, voids are prevented by the flow of oil from reservoirs into the cable while it is cooling, through channels in the cable itself. In the pressure cable, the same result is accomplished by gas pressure external to the lead sheath. To assist the lead in undergoing this slight diaphragm action, the sheath is made either slightly triangular or oval in shape and reinforced with a bronze tape to prevent cumulative bending. In the original form as described by Hochstadter, Vogel, and Bowden in Elektrotechnische Zeitschrift in 1932, page 145, the cable is placed in a steel pipe filled with nitrogen under a pressure of about 15 atmospheres. The cable itself is either a three-conductor cable with a triangular sheath, or a three-conductor SL (separately leaded) cable with individual elliptical sheaths. In the latest developments in England, a reinforced lead sheath has been substituted for the steel pipe as a pressure restraining medium, this type being known as the self-contained pressure cable. The latter type was described by K. S. Wyatt (A'32) at the Conférence Internationale des Grands Réseaux Électriques á Haute Tension, Paris, 1939."
"Because many chemical plants require heat for process use, many opportunities exist for the development of combined heat and electric-power supply systems in these plants, which are among the largest industrial users of electricity. Special precautions must be observed in selecting electrical equipment for use in chemical plants, because of the prevalence of flammable or corrosive fumes."
"WITHOUT increasing the diameter of its largest telephone cable from the former size of 2⅝ inches, the Bell System has increased the number of separately insulated copper wires within the cable from 3,636 to 4,242. The diameter of the wires also remains unchanged. The addition of 303 pairs of wires within the same girth of cable was accomplished by an improved technique of insulation which reduced the thickness of insulation around each wire by 0.003 inch."
"A memorial tablet marking the site at which Elihu Thomson (A'84, F'13, HM'28) built his first bipolar dynamo for generating alternating current was unveiled in Philadelphia, Pa., January 3, 1940. Placed on the office building now occupying the site of the Harrison Machine Works where Thomson worked on inventions in 1878–79, the tablet was erected under sponsorship of the Franklin Institute and through the efforts of four of Thomson's early associates, A. L. Rohrer (A'87, M'88), J. R. Lovejoy (A'91, F'13), H. G. Reist (A'90, F'13), and W. J. Foster (A'07, F'16)."
"Iowa State Bulletin Reprints AIEE Paper. The Engineering Experiment Station of Iowa State College issued as its bulletin 142, 1939, “Amplitudes of Magnetomotive-Force Harmonics for Fractional-Slot Windings of Three-Phase Machines” by J. F. Calvert (A'27, M'35). The theoretical development of this work, which was carried out as an experiment-station project, was presented at the AIEE summer convention, Washington, D. C., June 1938, and published in Transactions (volume 57, p. 777–85, 1938) under the title “Amplitudes of Magnetomotive-Force Harmonics for Fractional-Slot Windings — I”. Copies of the bulletin may be obtained without charge on request to the director of the Iowa Engineering Experiment Station, Ames."
"ASA Reviews 1939 Activities at Annual Meeting Work accomplished by the American Standards Association during 1939, as reviewed at the society's annual meeting, December 13, 1939, included completion of “American Standard Inspection Requirements for Motor Vehicles” initiation of projects for standards on aeronautics and on photographic equipment; and continuation of work on co-ordinated building-code standards, merchandising standards for consumer goods, and prevention of occupational diseases. During the year 19 new standards and 45 revisions of previous standards were approved. Six groups, including professional societies, a government agency, and a trade group, affiliated with ASA in 1939, bringing its basic membership to 73."
"ITEMS appearing under this heading are from the news service of American Engineering Council. American Engineering Council Holds 20th Annual Meeting Representatives of the member engineering organizations of American Engineering Council met in Washington, D. C., January 11–12, 1940, for the 20th annual assembly of the joint organization. The program included reports of various committees, election of officers, and the annual All-Engineers Dinner, at which Doctor William T. Foster, director of the Pollak Foundation, Newton, Mass., was chief speaker. The 10th annual conference of engineering society secretaries was held concurrently."
"Air-Conditioning Units for Home and Office Use Three air-conditioning units designed for home and office use and priced for the consumer market have recently been developed by Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company. The smallest of the three units, shown in the illustration, has a cooling capacity of 4,000 Btu per hour and is expected to be used chiefly in bedrooms. The next larger model, with a capacity of 6,000 Btu per hour, and total conditioned-air delivery of 225 cubic feet per minute, is planned for use in average private offices under the heavier requirements of daytime service. The largest of the line is a floor model for larger offices and private houses, with 8,500 Btu capacity and delivery of 300 cubic feet of conditioned air per minute."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"Referring to President Farmer's communication in the November 1939 issue of Electrical Engineering, concerning our election procedure, it is quite true that there has been a feeling that elections of officers are too much cut and dried in the AIEE with insufficient direct voice from the members."
"During the last few years Electrical Engineering has published a number of articles on the social side of engineering. These have all been interesting and informative, but I should like to see them go one step further. Why not go from the general to the specific? There are many social questions today the ultimate outcome of which will profoundly affect engineering in almost every phase. While the general press has not hesitated to print anything on the subject, even to the point of preferring sensationalism to veracity, the technical press has been content either to ignore the problem entirely or at best to deal only in generalities."
"In the computation of the phase voltages and currents of an unbalanced three-phase wye load, the electrical engineer usually employs one of several generally accepted methods."
"OPERATED jointly by the AIEE and the other founder societies, the Engineering Societies Library, 29 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., offers a wide variety of services to members all over the world. Information about these services may be obtained on inquiry to the director."
"The governing bodies of Columbia University annually place at the disposal of the AIEE a scholarship in the graduate course in electrical engineering at Columbia University's school of engineering. The scholarship pays the annual tuition of $380. Its renewal for the completion of the course is dependent upon the standard of work maintained by the holder."
"Revision of the existing regulations for grading student papers presented for the District Branch paper prizes was recommended at the annual meeting of the North Central District (6) executive committee, held at Omaha, Nebr., December 2, 1939. With the present method of grading undergraduate papers in the same manner as papers for National prizes, the heavy weighting given the factors, “Value in Its Field” and “Value to Electrical Engineering” was regarded by the committee as tending to discourage student competition. The committee voted unanimously that the matter be taken up with the national secretary."
"Formation of a Charleston, W. Va., Section was authorized by the AIEE executive committee at its meeting on December 11, 1939 (EE, Jan. 1940, p. 43). The new Section, 68th to be formed, will have a territory of 23 counties in West Virginia."
"F. M. Feiker (M'34) executive secretary, American Engineering Council, has been appinted dean of the school of engineering, George Washington University, Washington, D. C. A native (1881) of Northampton, Mass., he received the degree of bachelor of science in electrical engineering in 1904 and the honorary degree of doctor of engineering in 1938 from Worcester Polytechnic Institute. After a year as research assistant at that institution, and two years of technical journalism with the General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., he became technical editor and later managing editor of Factory, and in 1912 chairman of the editorial board of A. W. Shaw Company, Chicago, Ill., publishers of Factory and System magazines and of technical books. He joined the McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, New York, N. Y., in 1915, as editor of Electrical World, eventually becoming vice-president and editorial director of the company. He was assistant to the United States secretary of commerce 1921–22, operating vice-president of the Society for Electrical Development, New York, 1922–26, and managing director, Associated Business Papers, New York, 1926–30. He then became director of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, Washington, D. C., and from 1932 to 1934 directed the educational survey of the Textile Foundation, Washington. Since 1934 he has been with AEC. He is also a member of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on January 18, 1940, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The trend toward electrical means of providing timing for motor control is evidenced in the use of capacitor-timed relays and contactors. Though employed for some time in welding applications, the advent of capacitor timing in the motor control field is fairly recent. The general analytical considerations are presented, followed by a discussion of the component parts of the timer. Some attention is paid to limitations, particularly in regard to the effect of line voltage fluctuations."
"IN TIMES when so much thought and attention are given to the streamlined development of modern life, such as aviation, de luxe high-speed trains, airmail, radio, television, sound movies, and other wonders of science, it is quite natural that an industry such as the telegraph should find itself called upon constantly to fill an ever increasing demand for new services or functions created by this world of today. With every new development in modern industry, new needs arise for quick interchange of information — accurate and in written form for permanent record to insure against misunderstanding or forgetfulness. It is these needs which the telegraph, through its system of fast record communications, has been able to anticipate and provide for. Engineering research and developments in telegraphy have fully kept pace with the modern trend, and during the last year or two, there have been brought to conclusion several developments which promise to make the telegraph more necessary than ever to our social and industrial life."
"This paper, emanating from a request for information regarding surge voltages required to break down gaps in oil, gives surge breakdown voltage values with different gap spacings for ¼-inch, ½-inch, and 1-inch round rod electrodes with hemispherical ends immersed in transformer oil. As expected, these values are a function of “time to breakdown” but for each condition curves show constant breakdown values for breakdown times of the order of about 16 microseconds and longer with the 1½ × 40 negative wave, used on all the tests reported. Particular attention is called to the relatively small amount of oil required for tests of this type, made possible by the special type of test barrel used."
"THERE are three reasons for isolating or de-energizing grounded feeders: first, danger to life; second, danger to property; and third, to permit joint use of pole lines with the telephone companies. The first two are very difficult to evaluate, but in certain territories a means of isolation is very important. The third reason can be given a definite value, and the economies resulting from joint use of pole lines can more than justify this proposed scheme of sensitive ground protection for radial feeders."
"THE increasing use of high-speed relaying with the resulting emphasis on the transient performance of potential devices has led to an extensive analysis of their performance under transient conditions. Both analytical and network-calculator methods have been developed for predetermining transient performance. Tests have been made to substantiate the methods of analysis and to show the character of the transient and extent of control in typical cases. Novel means have, likewise, been devised for presenting the steady-state performance of the device. In particular, the introduction of the equivalent circuit of the device represents an important advance in the visualization, both of the transient and steady-state performance. In this paper, after a brief description of circuit arrangements of the potential devices under discussion, the new theoretical methods are presented, followed by the substantiating test information."
"THIS REPORT on the progress of the art in electrical machinery covers the five-year period from 1934 to June 1939."
"THE object of this discussion is to present a brief history of the use and development of electric power in the oil-refining industry and to indicate how refinery design and operation have been affected by recent developments in electrical engineering."
"The increasing demand for oilless circuit breakers has resulted in a number of contributions in that field. Outstanding among these from the standpoint of interrupting capacity at generator voltages is the “hydro-blast” circuit breaker, which has been developed in ratings up to 1,500,000 kva. This breaker has the feature of complete interchangeability with the standard H-type oil circuit breaker and thus combines all of the well-known advantages of that type with the total absence of inflammable material. This paper describes in detail the construction and operation of the 500,000-kva hydro-blast circuit breaker for central-station service, several of which have been in service for over half a year."
"Investigation reveals the moving systems of induction watt-hour meters to be in a peculiar state of motion under the condition of potential excitation only. The present paper offers a simple explanation for its origin and provides a method for recording and determining the actual value of the motion in various parts of the moving system. Interesting conclusions may be drawn from the investigation which throw much light on the problem of meter-bearing performance."
"Starting from the canonical equations of a general, linear, bilateral network and by the application of transformation matrices, giving the various current constraints in typical polyphase systems, equations are obtained which give the response of the most general wye-wye, delta-delta, and delta-wye static systems to arbitrary electromotive forces at the sending and receiving ends. Mutual inductances and capacitances are assumed between the various branches of the circuits."
"Advertisement."
"Assembly Multiplies Magnet Strength. — A new permanent magnet assembly, roughly three times as strong as any previously known, is a recent development of the General Electric research laboratory. It permits a tiny piece of sintered alnico to lift and hold 4,450 times its own weight. Sintered alnico is an alloy of aluminum, nickel and iron as the basic or essential ingredients, and is made by pressing together the powdered metals and heating almost to the melting point. By itself, without the special assembly, an alnico magnet has a normal lifting power of 500 times its own weight. A new mounting of brass and iron in which the magnetic flux passes through many air gaps, instead of the usual two, in bridging from pole to pole, is responsible for the greatly increased power. The new assembly is not a commercial development and the largest turned out in the laboratory to date contains but three cubic centimeters of alnico. Though smaller than a thimble, and weighing three-fourths of an ounce, this magnet in its mounting has supported as much as 200 pounds in tests."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Engineering Education. The engineer obviously must learn and know the technical matter that is unique to his profession; but if more than mediocrity is to be his reward, then he must develop himself in a broad manner so as to be able to solve problems by weaving together technical data with social economic, and psychological factors, says one engineering-college dean, who describes the program established at his institution to provide young engineers with this type of training (pages 119–22)."
"“Distinguished public service” and “meritorious achievement in electrical science, engineering, or arts” were recognized by the presentation of the Hoover and Edison medals, respectively, to Gano Dunn and Philip Torchio, Fellows of the AIEE."
"From time immemorial it has been the custom of social groups to appraise their most distinguished members and in one way or another to declare to the world their appraisals. It is peculiarly fitting that in a period in which, with increasing emphasis, the engineering profession has been discussing the social status of the engineer, we should address ourselves to the granting of the Hoover Medal to one who, in the highest sense, represents the qualities held in esteem by his colleagues."
"Some of the greatest controversies of today revolve around the question — what is public service and how should it be performed? There are those who regard it primarily as the service a government renders to its people, and there are those with a broader view who regard it as service rendered to the people, whether by government or by private agencies."
"Quite aside from the intrinsic fitness of the medalist, there are associated reasons why this year's Edison Medal award is particularly appropriate. The medalist has spent the greater part of his life actively in the employment of the company which derives from Mr. Edison's initial electricity supply undertaking. His earlier years were spent in the vicinity of and his technical education was received in the town of a pioneer development of Mr. Edison's system of generation and distribution. For many years he was a colleague of the 1923 Edison medalist, the late John W. Lieb, a former President of the Institute. In a very real sense it must be said of him that his lifetime was devoted to the realization, perfecting, and adapting to changing conditions of the work initiated by the great pioneer inventor and engineer whose work and memory this medal commemorates."
"When I first went to the New York Edison Company in 1895, I became very much interested in the study of all factors that influence the cost of production. As an illustration of such interest I have, among my papers, a duration curve entitled “Curve Showing Number of Hours During Which the Load on Duane Street Station Did Not Exceed a Given Percentage of the Annual Maximum Load — Year 1895.” In a marginal tabulation are given, in percentages of the annual maximum, the hours' use of the station under different loads. The load was greater than 70 per cent of the maximum for less than 1 per cent of the time. For nearly 50 per cent of the time the load did not exceed 6½ per cent of the maximum. Accompanying the curve follows a report of three weeks' tests to determine the cost of operation for different watches, and the remark is made that by increasing by 50 per cent the output of the minimum watches, the increased output could be produced at one-fifth of the average pounds of coal per kilowatt-hour consumed during the minimum-load watch. I do not believe that a duration curve of the operation of a central station had ever been assembled before. From the broad economic point of view its importance is just as great today as it was in 1895. Upon its underlying principles has been built the structure of efficient operation of plant, economic utilization of investments, and promotional rate schedules."
"Increased intensity of illumination and the upward trend in industrial power requirements have loaded the electric distribution systems in many buildings beyond their rated capacities, requiring many extensive rewiring jobs that could have been avoided by the provision of adequate reserve capacity in the original installation. It is pointed out here that even though no material increase in load results after a number of years, a system having more than the capacity required by code rules is economical."
"THE advent of television emphasized the need for a power-amplifier tube capable of delivering kilowatts of power into wide-band circuits at carrier frequencies above 40 megacycles. To obtain such output with wide-band circuits, a low output capacitance and consequently a small anode area are required. The result is high current and high dissipation per unit area. For satisfactory operation at high frequencies, the electron transit time must be small, necessitating small interelectrode spacings. These requirements are interrelated and in some measure conflicting."
"An outline classification of Bridge networks that may be of assistance to users of Bridges, students, and others interested in the subject"
"A review of some of the unsolved problems facing electrical engineers of the railroad and urban-transportation industries points to the need for a research organization supported by the operating companies, to stimulate technical developments in this field."
"Many have seen the “electromagnetic levitator” in the General Electric Company's “House of Magic” demonstration lectures. In this demonstration, an aluminum disk is stably supported in an alternating magnetic field under the repulsive force between the induced eddy currents and field.5 Another and related problem is reflected in several recent and serious, but inevitably (utile, attempts to achieve stable suspension in space under the forces of permanent magnets alone. This article sheds further light on the basic theory involved, which was formulated a century ago by Samuel Earnshaw and seems quite largely to have been overlooked."
"An engineering education will Fail in its purpose if it gives mere formulaic information; it must build a man who can accept the responsibilities a modern world thrusts upon him, says this engineering-college dean who describes the program established at one university to give the young engineer not only the technical knowledge his profession demands, but also that broader education required to enable him to meet the demands of this modern world."
"According to announcements currently being distributed by the James F. Lincoln Arc Welding Foundation of Cleveland, Ohio, a total of 458 cash awards amounting to $200,000 will be made to the authors of winning papers in an arc-welding prize paper contest which opened January 1, 1940, and which is scheduled to run for two and a half years, until June 1, 1942. By its own statements:"
"ITEMS appearing under this heading are from the news service of American Engineering Council."
"Engineering for Doctors. Summarizing the latest reports of the Harkness family's Commonwealth Fund's philanthropic activities in the field of U. S. public health and medical research, Time magazine for January 22 points out that “One interesting award sends a man from a physiological laboratory to a school of engineering so that he can bring back from hydraulics and mechanics principles and techniques applicable to the study of blood pressure, blood flow, and the like.”"
"Cumulative Index. A cumulative author and analytical subject index of volumes 1–10 of the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, October 1929 to April 1939 inclusive, has recently been issued for the Society by the American Institute of Physics. The volume also includes author and subject indexes of contemporary literature on acoustics, as listed in the Journal 1937–39. Copies of the index may be secured from the publications manager, American Institute of Physics, 175 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y.; price $3.00 per copy."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"In manufacturing practice it is often necessary to obtain the constants of an induction motor from test measurements on a finished machine. This may be for the purpose of fault location, finding manufacturing errors, or for duplicating the performance of a completed machine with another set of punchings."
"OPERATED jointly by the AIEE and the other founder societies, the Engineering Societies Library, 29 West 39th Street, New York. N. Y., offers a wide variety of services to members all over the world. Information about these services may be obtained on inquiry to the director."
"CONTINUING the 1939 policy of an enlarged technical program the 1940 AIEE winter convention, held at New York, N. Y., January 22–26, included 18 technical sessions, one more than last year, and eight technical conferences, an increase of three over last year. A brief session on Tuesday afternoon, January 23, for presentation of the Alfred Noble prize, and the special evening program previously announced, which included presentation of the Hoover and Edison medals and a demonstration lecture, were the only nontechnical sessions. Registered attendance, which totaled 1,626, was slightly above the 1939 figure and the highest since 1924. A varied group of inspection trips and the usual entertainment features were included in the program. Statistics on attendance will be found in the accompanying tabulations. More than 80 technical papers were presented at the sessions, besides conference papers. Since all technical papers, except a few that were noted on the program as available only in advance-copy form, ultimately will be published in Transactions, along with their related discussions, no reports on the technical sessions are published here."
"At its regular meeting at Institute headquarters, January 23, 1940, the AIEE board of directors approved the following dates and places for meetings: Annual meeting, 1940, Swampscott, Mass., Monday, June 24. Pacific Coast Convention, 1940, Ambassador Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif., August 26–30 inclusive (selected by convention committee)"
"Formation of two new Sections of the Institute, bringing the total to 70, was authorized by the board of directors at its meeting, January 23, 1940. The South Carolina Section, has that entire state as its territory. A formal organization meeting was held at Columbia, S. C., March 1. The Section plans to hold two meetings a year until it becomes well established, when the number will be increased. The El Paso Section includes El Paso, Hudspeth, Culberson, Presidio, Jeff Davis, Brewster, Terrell, Pecos, Reeves, Loving, Crane, Winkler, Ward, Ector, Midland, Glasscock, Sterling, Coke, Green, Irion, Reagan, and Upton counties in Texas, and the entire state of New Mexico."
"U. S. National Committee of I E C. On January 4, 1940, Doctor E. C. Crittenden, assistant director of the International Bureau of Standards accepted the appointment as president of the United States National Committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission, to succeed Doctor Clayton H. Sharp, who had served in that position for 16 years, and who has now been elected honorary president."
"James Burke (A'93, M'03, F'13) retired chairman of the board, Burke Electric Company, Erie, Pa., and president of the Edison Pioneers, died January 21, 1940. He was born April 7, 1893, at London, Eng., and educated there coming to New York in 1888. In 1889 he was employed at the Edison Machine Works, Schenectady, N. Y., in the testing department, and was assigned as assistant to Thomas A. Edison when the latter was at Schenectady. When the company's first student course was organized in 1889, Mr. Burke was the first to sign up for it. Later transferred to the engineering department he continued with the company and its successors, the Edison General Electric Company and General Electric Company, until 1894. During the next four years he was in private consulting practice in New York. In 1898 he became consulting engineer for the Bergmann Elektromotoren and Dynamo Works, Berlin, Germany, and in the same year gave up his consulting practice to become its technical director and chief engineer, a position he held until 1902, when he returned to private practice. In 1904 he formed and became president of the Burke Electric Company. He was president until 1928 and then chairman of the board until 1933, when he retired but continued to maintain an advisory interest in the company. He represented both the AIEE and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association on the United States national committee of the International Electrotechnical Commission and was president of the Commission in 1935. He was well known as an inventor. He had served on the standards and electrical machinery committees of the AIEE, and was also a member of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the American Welding Society and past president of NEMA. He had been president of the Edison Pioneers for three years."
"Recommended for Transfer The board of examiners, at its meeting on February 21, 1940, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"DURING the many years that large amounts of power have been transmitted over long power lines at high voltage, an enormous amount of work has been done on research and development in connection with the high-voltage low-frequency phenomena encountered. In the years that followed, the use of low radio frequencies for communication purposes brought about the need for knowledge of high-voltage phenomena in the region of 100 kilocycles and up to about 200 kilowatts. The men associated with this equipment did a remarkably good job of design on their equipment as may be seen in some of the apparatus still in use, especially in regard to the large antenna insulators used on the long-wave antennas."
"RESEARCH by many individuals since the beginning of the century has added two new instruments for time measurement to the generally accepted pendulum clock. All of these are based, of course, on the primary astronomical standard which involves the revolution of the earth on its axis."
"THE testing of distribution lightning arresters, especially those removed from service, has increased sharply in recent years. Such testing by utilities is considered in this paper as distinct from design and routine tests made by the arrester manufacturers."
"The principal factors involved in the design and application of direct-acting voltage regulators and their relations to each other are discussed in this paper. The mathematical method used for deriving these relations is outlined. Definite conclusions are drawn concerning proper operation and design of this type of regulator."
"This paper briefly describes the nature and purpose of the various groups of railway signal and interlocking equipment operated in connection with railway service over the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge. Following this description is an explanation of the method used in determining the lengths of signal blocks and calculating safe braking distances throughout the project. It is hoped that the presentation of this paper will lead to further discussion and research concerning the braking of trains of this type."
"A new technique used in the production of lead sheaths for electric power cables is introduced. The various phases of the problem and the difficulties encountered heretofore are described. It has been found that it is necessary to consider the problem both as a mechanical and a chemical one. A method is described in which both factors are used. This consists in pretreating lead as received with a sodium-lead alloy to remove all deleterious impurities and the use of a special standpipe procedure for filling the lead-press extrusion cylinder to obtain a complete union of successive charges, resulting in sound lead sheaths throughout the entire cable length. Test data show that the physical and corrosion properties of lead are not adversely affected by the sodium treatment."
"This paper embodies the relevant agreed recommendations of the Joint Co-ordination Committee on Radio Reception of EEI, NEMA, and RMA, as to the nature, essential characteristics, and performance of an instrument for the measurement of radio-noise voltages. It further gives detailed descriptions of the recommended practices for measuring radio noise directly from low- and high-voltage apparatus, for making noise measurements along overhead lines, for determining broadcast field-strength levels, and methods of collecting data for the establishment of radio-noise standards."
"Advertisement."
"Expansion Program for Standard Gas. — Construction of a 25,000-kw capacity addition to the Canal station of Louisville Gas & Electric Co., at Louisville, Ky., has been decided upon. Authorization of this project will result in a total of 160,000 kilowatts of additional generating capacity being under construction during 1940 by public utility operating companies in the Standard Gas & Electric Co. system, and appropriation for the Canal station addition brings the total tentative construction budget of the system for 1940 to over $40,000,000."
"New Type Rotor Construction. — Offering the advantage of longer motor life with less maintenance, a new type rotor construction announced by the General Electric Company makes possible the use of cast-aluminum rotors in the larger sizes of double-squirrel-cage motors for high-starting-torque, low-starting-current service. Called the “Valv-amp” rotor, it employs a unique shape of rotor slot and a special method of assemblying rotor punchings to control the flow of starting current. As a result, without the use of a switch or other moving parts, current is permitted to flow in the outer squirrel-cage when the motor is started, thus producing high-starting torque. Then, when the motor comes up to speed, current is allowed to flow through the entire rotor “winding,” resulting in excellent running characteristics. Above is an oblique end view, showing one arrangement of bars, end rings and fans."
"AMMETER COMPENSATING COILS Minerallac Electric Co., Chicago"
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Illumination at New York World's Fair. Scheduled for inclusion in the May issue is a comprehensive treatment of the nighttime illumination effects at the New York World's Fair, which opens its 1940 season May 11. Several four-color illustrations will be included as well as descriptions of the spectacular illumination effects achieved and many application diagrams and sketches showing how the various light sources are applied. The use of several new light sources previously found only in the laboratories will be described and illustrated."
"Growing demands for higher scheduled speeds and for increasingly drastic operating economies have stimulated many of the recent advances in railroad motive power"
"Excerpts from an address of the same title delivered at a meeting of the Engineers' Club of Baltimore, November 29, 1939, by Charles Gordon, managing director of the American Transit Association. ONE of the most important, and at the same time most controversial and least understood, problems of the modern city is that of improving its transportation or circulatory system. American cities have grown in area and in population at a rate that has far outstripped the facilities for handling the increased volume of local travel. In addition, development of the automobile has vastly increased the travel habits of everyone. But by jamming millions of automobiles into our existing street systems, we have made it increasingly inconvenient, costly, and dangerous to move about in urban areas."
"THE principal element of the Scophony Laboratories (London, England) system of television is described in a recent paper.∗ The Scophony system, using entirely optical methods, has set the pace for large-screen television in England. The method employed can produce high-quality pictures up to 15 feet wide as well as 18- and 24-inch domestic pictures."
"Increasing emphasis on research (or undergraduates, widening recognition of the need for better pedagogical methods, and growing attention to the social relations of engineering are among desirable tendencies noted in a recent survey of engineering education"
"With the capillary mercury lamp as a light source, oscillograms may be recorded on bromide paper at speeds up to 50 feet per second"
"SOME of the difficulties experienced with early superposed steam-electric turbogenerator units indicated a need for a better understanding of the conditions affecting the operation of turbine impulse blades in these machines. To obtain good economy at partial loads the incoming steam is fed to the first turbine wheel at only a portion of its periphery, and the blades passing into and out of this steam jet receive a most violent shock each revolution of the turbine. This method of loading has been used for many years with turbines operating at lower pressures, and it has been only on those few machines of the large superposed class, which operate at a pressure of approximately 1,200 pounds per square inch and a temperature of some 900 degrees Fahrenheit, that its use has caused some blades to break at the root where they are fastened to the spindle."
"The international situation necessitated that the adoption of certain changes in electrical units which was to have taken place January 1, 1940, be indefinitely postponed. This article outlines the existing status of the changes, and also endeavors to clarify the proposed “mks” system of practical units, adoption of which has been advocated by the International Electrotechnical Commission. In addition, certain other proposals for adjustment of units are discussed."
"NRC Committee to Survey Research in Industry At the request of the National Resources Planning Board (formerly the National Resources Committee) the National Research Council has undertaken a survey of the scientific research carried on by industry in the United States. The study is part of the Planning Board's program of evaluating the country's facilities for scientific work."
"Washington Award Announced for 1940 The Washington Award “in recognition of pre-eminent service in advancing human progress” has been conferred for 1940 upon Daniel Cowan Jackling, “for pioneering in large-scale mining and treatment of low-grade copper ores, releasing vast resources from formerly worthless deposits.” Doctor Jackling, who is president of the Utah Copper Company, San Francisco, Calif., and a past president of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, demonstrated the possibility of profitable exploitation of low-grade porphyry orebodies and was active in the formation of the Utah company to develop such ores. Among improvements in mining operations for which he was responsible have been the use of electric shovels for digging, steel construction in mill buildings, and three-phase alternating current in connection with hydroelectric developments. He received the John Fritz Medal in 1933."
"Stevens Revises Courses. The junior laboratory course in electrical engineering presented at Stevens Institute of Technology is being revised with the assistance of a specially selected group of 24 members of the junior class. The group is working under direction on the development of 12 new experiments planned to broaden the department's curriculum for the junior and senior years. Lecture and laboratory courses in electrical engineering are required of all Stevens undergraduates. Much of the work formerly given juniors is now included in freshmen and sophomore courses under the physics department; the junior lecture course has been broadened to include study of a-c circuits and machinery, formerly given to seniors; and the senior curriculum now provides more work than before in communications and electronics."
"Compressed-Air Circuit Breaker Given Demonstration Tests A compressed-air circuit breaker developed by Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company was given demonstration tests at the company's laboratory at East Pittsburgh, Pa., March 5, 1940, before more than 200 utility and industrial engineers."
"ITEMS appearing under this heading are from the news service of American Engineering Council."
"OPERATED jointly by the AIEE and the other founder societies, the Engineering Societies Library, 29 West 39th Street, New York. N. Y., offers a wide variety of services to members all over the world. Information about these services may be obtained on inquiry to the director."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible. Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"F. P. Kuhl, in his article entitled “New-Indirect Luminaire Improves Drafting-Room Illumination,” (Electrical Engineering, February 1940) showed one method by which a lighting installation may be improved and modernized to give better seeing conditions. As may be observed from his figures 4 and 5, the improvement in lighting was quite appreciable when the old-style milk-glass globes were replaced by specially developed louvered units utilizing 200-watt bowl silvered lamps."
"Summer Convention to Be Held at Swampscott, Mass. The 1940 AIEE summer convention is being held at the New Ocean House, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28. Members are reminded that, as the semi-annual meeting of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers is being held at Milwaukee, Wis., June 17–20, those traveling from the west may conveniently attend both meetings."
"General Committee Chosen for Middle Eastern District Meeting Preliminary plans are in progress for the Middle Eastern District meeting at Cincinnati, Ohio, final dates for which have been set for October 9–11, 1940. The following have been appointed members of the general committee:"
"Free Convention Trip for Winning Section Paper To encourage papers by members of the Cleveland Section during 1940, Past President A. M. MacCutcheon has offered a free trip to the 1941 AIEE winter convention to the author of the best paper from a member of the Section this year. All members of the Section are eligible, except Enrolled Students in the Case School Branch, who may engage in a somewhat similar competition for the eastern division. The award defines expenses for the trip to the convention as equal to the amount allowed a Section delegate. Papers will be judged according to the rules governing National prize awards. A committee has been appointed to encourage the writing of papers and to direct their presentation."
"Branch Greeted Over Television Members of the Pratt Institute Student Branch received personal greetings over television from David Sarnoff (M'23) president, Radio Corporation of America, and an alumnus of Pratt Institute, James G. Harbord, chairman of the board of directors of Pratt, and John Hayes Hammond and Gano Dunn (A'91, F'12) members of the board, in a special broadcast to the Branch meeting February 1, 1940."
"Subcommittee to Standardize Wet Testing For a number of years there has been dissatisfaction in the industry in regard to wet testing of equipment because such standards as existed have not been conducive to consistent and comparative measurements. At one of the early meetings of the laboratory subcommittee of the joint committee on insulation co-ordination, the suggestion was adopted: “that a common mode of procedure for the making of wet flashover tests be outlined to insure that the data obtained may be as nearly as possible on the same basis.”"
"AIEE Members Among Those Honored as “Modern Pioneers” Awards were presented during February to 572 American scientists and inventors selected as “Modern Pioneers” in the National Association of Manufacturers' program celebrating the 150th anniversary of the American patent system (EE, Dec. '39, p. 529). Especially honored as national “Modern Pioneers” were 18 individuals and the group of 11 scientists responsible for the development of the new artificial fiber “Nylon”. Among those honored for their contributions to the American standard of living during the last 25 years were the following members of the Institute:"
"James Ewart Taggart (M'37) executive engineer, electricity branch, Punjab Public Works Department, Lahore, India, died some time ago, according to information just received at Institute headquarters. He was born at Castletown, Isle of Man, British Isles, April 23, 1896, and graduated from Faraday House Electrical Engineering College, London, England, in 1922. He became a student apprentice with the English Electric Company, Ltd., Preston, in 1921, assistant production and test engineer, 1922, and assistant to the general works manager at the company's main office in London in 1923. In 1926 he became assistant transmission and distribution engineer for the Burmah Oil Company, Ltd., continuing with the company until 1928. From 1928 to 1931 he was transmission-line engineer and later district engineer for the Perak River Hydro-Electric Power Company, Ltd., Malaya. Returning to England in 1931 he was construction engineer for the J. L. Eve Construction Company, Ltd., London, and for the North Eastern Electric Supply Company, Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tyne. He had been with the Punjab Public Works Department since 1934. He was also a member of The Institution of Electrical Engineers of Great Britain."
"Recommended for Transfer The board of examiners, at its meeting on March 14, 1940, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"This paper summarizes the recognized methods for reducing at the source man-made radio noises. The effectiveness of the different controlling methods is discussed in the light of efficiency and utility. The use of shunt-type filters and choke coils is so broad that this paper is confined to the more important applications of these controlling devices. Filter methods are so important that specific applications are discussed in detail. The application of these devices to other apparatus is governed by the type, location, and use of the apparatus."
"Fundamental principles of magnetic action and thermal reaction have been united in an original manner to create a new circuit interrupter, the “Magne-Blast” air circuit breaker. Intended for general applications in switching, controlling, and protecting 2,300- to 5,000-volt circuits, this breaker, throughout a comprehensive test program, has proved satisfactory in every requirement. An open presentation of test results shows how an efficient arc chute functions thermally to decay and extinguish the arc with a minimum of voltage disturbance. The breaker is immune to circuit recovery characteristics."
"THREE-WINDING transformer banks offer a convenient and economical means, and are frequently used, for operating synchronous condensers at step-down substations, particularly where the secondary voltage is too high for direct operation of the condenser. The usual function of the condenser in such cases is to regulate the secondary voltage, and the condenser regulator is controlled from that voltage rather than from the tertiary winding, or condenser terminal voltage. Furthermore, in many three-winding transformer designs the effect is nearly the same as though the condenser were actually operating on the secondary winding."
"AS pointed out in a number of recent papers,1,2 a mercury-arc rectifier draws a distorted current from the a-c supply system, even though power to the system is supplied by a sine-wave source. The harmonics in the current wave react on the supply system to cause distortion in the voltage wave, the degree of distortion being a function of the rating of the rectifier, the number of phases in which power is supplied to the anodes, the impedance at harmonic frequencies of the supply system, and the rectifier load. It is well known that, in theory at least, reductions in the wave-shape distortion may be effected by increasing the number of rectifier phases and thus reducing the number of harmonic components present in the supply-circuit current.1,2 Up to 1937, however, because of practical difficulties, largely in the design of the complex transformer arrangement required, no attempts were made to produce rectifiers commercially having more than 12 phases."
"THE lightning investigation reported in previous papers of this series was continued in 1937 and 1938, with the following power companies participating:"
"LARGE electric arc furnaces are loads which frequently introduce special technical problems when served from a central-station system. The fluctuations in the load taken by the furnaces are violent, and this characteristic combined with the inherently low power factor of this type of load results in a serious flicker problem. The low power factor also may require power-factor correction, in order to maintain a reasonable voltage level and reduce transmission losses. A further complication is that the arc is an excellent source of higher-harmonic currents and voltages. Where the load or the supply lines are close to telephone circuits, this may necessitate special measures to prevent telephone interference."
"ALTHOUGH mercury-arc rectifiers at present constitute only a small part of the total installed capacity of a-c to d-c conversion equipment in coal mines, in the past three years 21 rectifiers of a total rated capacity of 8,100 kw have been placed in service in 15 coal mines. Considered alone, this would not be important, but, since these rectifiers exceed in number of units and capacity other forms of new conversion equipment installed in the same period, a definite trend toward the use of rectifiers is indicated. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the causes for this trend and to record, in so far as it is possible, the results which have been obtained with rectifiers in mining service."
"VARIOUS SYSTEMS have been devised to operate from direct current to supply alternating current at specified frequencies for specific loads. However, there have been the usual limitations to prevent individual extensive application of each type."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to tell why variable-voltage equipment should be considered for oil-well drilling rigs, to explain the operating characteristics of a typical equipment, and to compare the over-all performance with that of an equivalent mechanical drive."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Lightning Arresters. — Cat. 38–140, 20 pp. Describes 3-, 6-, and 9-kv lightning arresters of new design, providing increased surge-carrying capacity. A complete line of improved 12- to 73-kv arresters is also described. Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., East Pittsburgh, Pa."
"Rectifiers Solve Change-Over Problems. — A line of rectifiers for supplying direct current power from a-c source, has been developed by H. J. McCreary, consulting engineer, 105 W. Adams St., Chicago. The most recent addition to this line is illustrated. It is a 3-phase, bridge-type rectifier, which gives 6-phase performance."
"AMMETER COMPENSATING COILS Minerallac Electric Co., Chicago"
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"THE CONVERSION of more than 1,200 acres of salt marsh and waste land into the New York World's Fair, with its stimulating review of the world of today and its effective preview of the “World of Tomorrow,” was a remarkable achievement, accomplished within the short span of three years. In this $150,000,000 transformation, electric light played a major role. Also, the Fair provided the stimulus that brought from the laboratories into commercial production some of the most significant developments ever made in the field of artificial illumination."
"An 80,000-kva electric distribution system supplies the Fair's light and power loads; an extensive public-address system broadcasts programs and announcements throughout the Fair grounds."
"ITEMS appearing under this heading are from the news service of American Engineering Council."
"Quarter Century of Engineering Foundation. A recent report of the Engineering Foundation points out that since its establishment in 1914 the organization has carried out 73 research projects involving expenditure of more than $3,000,000. Outstanding projects have included a ten-year study of alloys of iron, work of a special committee on cotton-seed processing, an arch-dam investigation, and research in the fatigue of metals. Of electrical-engineering interest are projects on welding and dielectric absorption; studies of personnel and engineering education have also been made."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible. Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. Ail letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"In illumination problems, it is often necessary to compute the solid angle of a light beam in steradians in order to determine the total flux emitted by the source in lumens. When the plane angle of divergence of the beam is small and, hence, the half angle is small, the use of the common relationship ω = 2π(1 – cos α) becomes quite cumbersome. Slide-rule computation of the cosine term is valueless and even the use of four-place trigonometric tables may result in large errors. If, however, the cosine term is expanded in an infinite series, the following result may prove helpful."
"In the December 1939 issue of Electrical Engineering, I noted some comments by E. A. Hartry on C. A. Kotterman's paper dealing with magnesium-copper sulphide rectifiers for railway battery charging."
"For studying the theory and calculating the performance of both single and polyphase induction motors, a great many methods have been proposed. These may be grouped as: (a) circle diagram, (b) analytical, (c) equivalent network, (d) auxiliary curves."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The 1940 AIEE summer convention, which will be held in Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, will provide a business and technical program of broad interest, with opportunity for sports, trips, and social recreation. Swampscott, on Boston's north shore, affords unlimited opportunity for healthful outdoor enjoyment, and the committee expects to make this convention a gathering place for many family groups. The technical program has been so arranged that the sessions on communication and electronics, as well as the frequency-modulation demonstration, occur during the early part of the convention to permit members interested in these subjects to attend the 15th annual convention of the Institute of Radio Engineers, at Hotel Statler, Boston, Mass., June 27–29 Members also are reminded that as the semiannual meeting of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers is being held in Milwaukee, Wis., June 17–20, those traveling from the west may conveniently attend both meetings."
"Norman Z. Alcock, Kingston, Ontario, Canada, has been chosen to receive the Charles LeGeyt Fortescue Fellowship for 1940–41, the first to be awarded. Terms and provisions of the fellowship, which is administered by a special committee of the AIEE, were described in the January 1940 issue, page 42. Mr. Alcock, who graduates this year from Queens University, Kingston, will use the award for graduate study in electrical engineering at California Institute of Technology, specializing in communications under Professor R. W. Sorensen. He has won six scholarships and prizes during his course at Queens, which he entered on the Sir Sandford Fleming matriculation scholarship in 1936."
"In Pittsfield, Mass., the AIEE Section has fostered a program of activities from which the citizens of the town benefit greatly. For a small charge, they may attend educational lectures on astronomy, exploration, zoology, aviation, photography, medicine, and similar subjects."
"The 14th annual convention of AIEE Student Branches in the New York City District (3) was held April 25, 1940, at Pratt Institute School of Science and Technology, Brooklyn, N. Y. In addition to seven local inspection trips and inspection of the Pratt Institute shops and laboratories, the convention program included a technical session at which the following student papers were scheduled:"
"A new set of proposed American standards and recommended practices for transformers, regulators, and reactors has just been completed by the sectional committee on transformers of the American Standards Association. The new standards with their appendixes will combine in one volume considerable new material on standards, testing, and operating guides for transformers. It is believed that this will be the most complete single publication of its kind ever compiled. In order to obtain comments and criticisms from the entire industry, these standards are now being published for a 12-month trial period as “Proposed American Standards and Recommended Practices for Trial and Study.”"
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on April 18, 1940, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Impulse-voltage testing of electrical apparatus and circuits is a steadily growing practice and constant attention is therefore being given to improvements in testing methods. Accordingly, as progress is made it is necessary to describe recent changes. This paper presents a brief discussion of the present situation, describes some improvements in technique of surge analysis of apparatus and circuits, and in equipment for the generation and measurement of test surges."
"The amplifiers of multichannel telephone systems must be so designed with regard to output capacity that interchannel interference caused by amplifier overloading will not be serious. Probability theory is applied to this problem to determine the maximum single-frequency output power which a multichannel amplifier should be designed to transmit as a function of N, the number of channels in the system. The theory is developed to include the effects of statistical variations in the number of simultaneous talkers, in the talking volumes, and in the instantaneous voltages from speech at constant volume."
"AN iron-core reactor in parallel with a capacitor in a series circuit with some kind of impedance will exhibit unstable characteristics under certain conditions. A change in one or more of the circuit parameters will cause the current or voltage associated with some element of the circuit to change suddenly from one stable value to another. Between these two conditions no value of current or voltage will satisfy all of the elements of the circuit simultaneously."
"The National Electrical Manufacturers' Association classification of resistors for motor starting and speed control specifies the initial current peaks and the duty cycle for which the resistor must be designed. The nature of the load driven by the motor decides the valley current at which succeeding resistor steps must be switched in starting, and consequently the number of steps in the resistor, and points in the controller. The rms current, and the time each step is in the circuit, taken in conjunction with the cyclic current-carrying capacity of individual resistor elements, determines the selection of the elements on the basis of their continuous-current rating. It is usual to assume an rms current of 125 per cent, and switching at equal time intervals. However, in this paper, formulas are developed for more accurately calculating these values, and the formulas and necessary constants are tabulated. Consideration is given to d-c shunt and series-connected motors, and to wound-rotor a-c induction motors. Resistors for regulating duty are also discussed."
"AFTER eight years' experience with the design, application, and operation of the protector tube, it is considered an opportune time to review this experience and propose the standardization of this device."
"THE transit industry is facing serious economic problems. Shrinking revenues, due largely to the competition of the private automobile, and increased operating expenses have together so decreased the margin between income and expenses that many systems are now in financial straits. The best solution for these problems, so far advanced, is to modernize the equipment and rehabilitate the service. Some lines have already been modernized; most of the remainder badly need modernization. Present equipment is old and expensive to operate; the service is slow, infrequent, and generally unattractive to the riding public. Through substituting new, fast, comfortable vehicles, run on frequent headways, for the present obsolete equipment and through aggressive management, most transit systems, if not all, may regain a considerable portion of their lost traffic and thus get back to a more satisfactory financial condition."
"OWING to the tremendous increase in the use of the resistance-welding process during the past several years, and the magnitude of many of the more recent installations, the problem of power supply for these operations has become one of primary importance to all concerned. Resistance-welding machines present an electrical load of intermittent character, high magnitude, and extremely poor load factor, and because of these poor inherent characteristics, the providing of adequate electric service, both from the standpoint of plant electrical distribution and the power system supply, involves special considerations and methods."
"Advertisement."
"High Pressure Contact Switch. — In the new, type “MK-39”, high pressure contact switch announced by the Delta-Star Electric Company, Chicago, the blade mechanism not only converts the rotating motion of the operating insulator to the vertical swinging of the blade, but it also turns the tubular blade to make high pressure contact. The blade hinge end also has high pressure contacts. By means of a “high spotted” cam, high pressure is created in the closed position only. In the entire mechanism there are but four bearings. There are no stops to limit the swing of the blade as it approaches closing position just before final turning or twisting movement to make high pressure contact, thus insuring smooth operation without shocks or jars to the porcelain insulators. The new switch is available in all voltages up to 161 kv, and current capacities up to 2,000 amperes. Cemented cap and pin insulators, with tapped or slotted caps, or station post units with tapped or slotted cap and base are furnished, as preferred."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Culture in Engineering. Culture must develop mental flexibility, a sympathy with the viewpoint of people of divergent interest, and an understanding of where one's own vocation fits into the interest of the society to which it is at the most only ancillary. This is one of the thoughts expressed by an AIEE past president in discussing the general subject (pages 229–31)."
"Advertisement."
"A brief survey of significant developments in apparatus for the generation, transmission, and distribution of electric energy DEVELOPMENTS in electrical apparatus might be compared with the saying “From the acorn comes the mighty tree.” Likewise, the growth of the electrical industry can be compared with the growth of the tree into a forest. The acorn might develop into a great tree or be choked out by stronger trees or thoughts, but always the forest is increasing in coverage. When we examine the development of electrical apparatus we find a large number of thoughts that have not matured, whereas some one thought may have been the nucleus of a complete industry."
"Pointing out that engineers should have the right to join unions or not as their own consciences dictate, this author believes that by doing so they are likely to impair their claims to professional status, and suggests that they are competent to find other ways of correcting unfair situations."
"Deploring the “uneasy self-consciousness” that afflicts many engineers in considering “culture,” Past President Parker suggests that the culture which consists of mental flexibility, sympathy with others' interests, and understanding of the relation of one's profession to society also may be instilled through great teaching of technical subjects."
"Surveys of room noise at various locations under both summer and winter conditions provide data for annual averages and distributions of room noise, and indicate the relative importance of major noise sources"
"The practices of a large operating company in providing power supply for a load of approximately 150,000 kva in a 1,400-square-mile suburban area are discussed in this article, with the underlying causes — practical, economic, and electrical — for these practices."
"More effective service to the Federal Government and the electrical industry, and broader co-operation with national technical societies are anticipated as the National Bureau of Standards takes over its new specially designed laboratory for high-voltage and X-ray work."
"ONE of the popular Bell System attractions at the World's Fairs is the hearing test. A considerable percentage of the visitors to the Bell System exhibits at both the New York Fair and the Golden Gate Exposition at San Francisco have taken advantage of the opportunity to find out how well they hear and have thus made available some three-quarters of a million records."
"“Opportunity for youth in building the World of Tomorrow” was the theme of a dinner meeting held by the General Motors Corporation, May 6, 1940, in the company's exhibit building at the New York World's Fair. The meeting was attended by several hundred invited guests, including college students, presidents, and faculty members from some 80 representative eastern, southern, and middle-western colleges, as well as from several General Motors apprentice and training schools."
"Valuation Engineers Organize National Society Planned as a national organization of valuation engineers, the Technical Valuation Society, Inc., was organized and chartered under New York State laws in December 1939 and has established headquarters at 60 Wall Street, New York, N. Y. Its constitution and bylaws are modeled to a considerable extent upon those of the older national engineering societies, particularly in regard to grades of membership, application procedure, and provision for geographical districts."
"The Illuminating Engineering Society has just issued “Recommended Practice for the Illumination Performance of Residential Ceiling Luminaires”, prepared by its committee on residence lighting. Recommendations cover standards of performance, but do not include construction specifications."
"ITEMS appearing under this heading are from the news service of American Engineering Council. FPC Publication Details Utility Statistics Comprehensive facts regarding all public-utility companies in the United States receiving annual electric incomes of $250,000 or more, representing 95 per cent of the industry, are contained in a new publication of the Federal Power Commission, “Statistics of Electric Utilities in the United States, 1938” available at $2 per copy from the Commission. The 500-page volume reports official figures from detailed returns made to the Commission as required by law. A similar volume was issued last year."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible. Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"One who has occasion to read widely in electromagnetic theory as concerns its application in electrical-machine design cannot help but note how little, comparatively speaking, has been done in connection with field-mapping problems in regions containing two or more materials of different permeabilities. Among the major contributors to this field have been G. F. C. Searle, W. Rogowski, T. Lehmann, E. Roth, and B. Hague. The subject is summarized in the latter's unique and important “Electromagnetic Problems in Electrical Engineering” which is, practically speaking, the only reference book in this branch of electrical engineering. For this very reason errors in this text are of special concern. It is the purpose of this letter to point out one such, rendered the more important by the fact that this incorrect formula has been used by others."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The program for the AIEE summer convention, which will be held in Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, with headquarters in the New Ocean House, provides for a busy and profitable week, yet not without ample opportunities for sports, trips, and social recreation. The business program is comprised of ten technical sessions, a general session, seven technical conferences, the annual meeting, the conference of officers, delegates, and members in two sections, and the conference of Student Branch counselors. As may be seen from the schedule of events, every evening but the last is taken up with some form of entertainment and a special program of events during the days has been arranged by the women's entertainment committee. The summer convention committee has taken advantage of location and hopes to make Swampscott a gathering place for many family groups."
"Photo-offset copies of authors' manuscripts, except addresses, may be obtained as soon as available in advance of the convention by writing to the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y. Only numbered papers will be available in advance-copy form. If ordered by mail, price 10 cents per copy; if purchased at Institute headquarters or at the convention, 5 cents per copy. Mail orders (particularly from out-of-town members) are advisable, inasmuch as an adequate supply of each paper at the meeting cannot be assured. Coupon books in $1 and $5 denominations are available for those who wish to avoid remittance by check or otherwise. Most of the papers ultimately will be published in Electrical Engineering or the Transaction."
"The following constitutes the annual report on Institute Section and Branch activities for the fiscal year which ended April 30, 1940. Similar information for three preceding fiscal years appeared in Electrical Engineering for June 1939, pages 268–71; June 1938, pages 263–6; June 1937, pages 762–5."
"Pacific Coast Convention to Be Held in Los Angeles Arrangements for the 1940 AIEE Pacific Coast convention, which will be held in Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, are now practically complete, according to N. B. Hinson, general chairman. The Ambassador Hotel, famous for its Cocoanut Grove, has been chosen for the convention headquarters. The dates are an ideal time for members throughout the country to plan their vacation trips. For women guests shopping, sightseeing tours, and other events of interest will be arranged."
"Annual Student Conference Held by District 4 Branches The annual conference of AIEE Student Branches in the Southern District (4) was held at Mississippi State College, State College, Miss., April 11–13, 1940. About 175 delegates attended the conference, at which Dean L. L. Patterson, District chairman of student activities, presided. The program included a general session and a technical session on April 12, a business meeting April 13, a smoker April 11, given by the local chapter of Tau Beta Pi, and the annual banquet April 12. President F. Malcolm Farmer was the principal speaker at the opening session."
"Report on Wave Form in Dielectric Power-Factor Measurements As a result of a request of the ASA committee on insulated wires and cables, the AIEE committee on instruments and measurements appointed a subcommittee∗ to study the effect of wave form in power-factor measurements and to suggest which of the following terms should be used: form factor, deviation factor, or distortion factor. The report which follows applies to power-factor tests made on commercial electrical insulating materials and insulation of electrical equipment where such tests are required by specifications. The recommendations apply to tests made at audio and radio frequencies as well as to tests made at power frequencies. Where very accurate measurements are required, as in certain research investigations, greater restrictions on wave form and measuring equipment are necessary as indicated."
"A radio system for upper-air weather soundings with small unmanned balloons is described. The balloon instrument comprises elements for measuring pressure, temperature, and humidity, and a miniature radio transmitter; the latter converts the response of the measuring instruments into characteristic signals modulating the emitted radio wave and sends this wave to a ground station where the signals are measured and recorded. Details of the system are given and a discussion is given of the accuracy of the upper-air observations obtained and of the tolerances permissible for component elements of the system."
"The reliability of wood-pole transmission lines during the lightning season has long been a problem with operating companies. To meet the ever increasing service demands approximately 60 miles of line were reconstructed using the inherent insulation of a wood-pole line with lightning protector tubes on one of three conductors. Two years' experience with this type of construction has shown better than a 90 per cent reduction in lightning outages."
"THIS PAPER is a continuation of the investigation on the characteristics and power requirements of spinning frames presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Springfield, Mass., May 3–5, 1939, and published in this volume of AIEE Transactions, pages 1–4 (January section)."
"Radiation is generally of importance only in apparatus cooled by natural convection and radiation. If such apparatus with a smooth exterior surface is mounted in the sun and shielded from the wind, an additional rise as high as 20 degrees centigrade may occur. White or gray nonmetallic paints may decrease solar effects. Fins and corrugations increase the ratio of convected to radiated heat and thereby decrease radiant effects."
"THE phenomenon of arc-back in mercury-arc rectifiers is the major factor in determining present-day designs. To keep the frequency of occurrence of arc-back sufficiently low, the anodes are set at a sufficient distance from the cathode, shields, baffles, and grids are interposed, and cooling water temperatures are kept in a rather narrow range. These practically successful means for overcoming arc-backs were developed largely empirically as the cause and nature of arc-back is still little understood."
"THIS PAPER presents the results of additional work by the AIEE lightning arrester subcommittee and contains station-type-arrester performance values which may be expected of present-day commercial station-type arresters rated from 3 to. 245 kv. The characteristics of line-type arresters were presented by the subcommittee in the May 1937 and November 1938 issues of Electrical Engineering."
"CURRENT is an essential factor in the complete specification of spot-welding conditions. Therefore, the need for the measurement of spot-welding currents arises, if optimum conditions determined in experimental laboratories are to be duplicated in production shops. Laboratory methods must be accurate and supplemented by facilities for ready calibration into secondary amperes. Shop methods must be convenient, reasonably accurate, and free from the possibility of accidental error. Shops find current measurement of great value in resetting welding machines for conditions which have previously been found satisfactory."
"THE performance characteristics of a communication circuit are often conveniently described in the form of a response curve which indicates the steady-state transmission of the circuit at frequencies within the range of interest. These curves can be obtained by making a sufficient number of individual measurements of transmission at various frequencies within the band of interest and plotting the results; however, considerable time may be saved by the use of a device which indicates directly the desired curve. Many such response-curve tracers are found in radio laboratories, the same frequency, is a vector quantity having an angle as well as a magnitude — the angle being the phase angle between the output voltage and the input voltage. The response-curve tracers now in general use indicate only the magnitude of the amplification as a function of frequency. The vector-response indicator described in this paper is a unique apparatus that indicates directly both the magnitude and phase angle of the transmission as a function of frequency. This vector response of the circuit is indicated by a special type of pattern on the screen of a simple cathode-ray tube."
"COPPER CORROSION is a serious problem in electrical equipment which uses very fine wires carrying a potential, the outstanding examples being various types of coils used in radios and ignition systems. The usual type of corrosion involves the formation of green material on the surface of the wire, which is obviously due to chemical reaction of the copper with materials in contact with it. As this chemical reaction progresses at a given point in the wire, the cross section of unchanged copper gradually diminishes until finally a break occurs, opening the circuit and rendering the coil useless."
"The phenomena occurring at the closing and opening of contacts carrying weak currents have been investigated by means which include a study of the high-frequency transient voltages and currents. These influence the erosion in a complex manner which varies with contact materials, surface conditions, and surrounding atmosphere. Three principal classes of effect have been distinguished. These are: (1) Disruptive spark-overs initiating a series of metallic arcs lasting less than a microsecond each. (2) A nitrogen-gas glow discharge at about 300 volts, preceded by a brief group of disruptive spark-overs. (3) High field breakdowns due to cold point discharges which cause transient metallic closures of approaching contacts and similar transient reclosures of separating contacts."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"After two years in service, the fluorescent lamp has definitely established itself as a new tool for the illumination engineer that will supplement, but not supplant, other light sources NEW in theory, design, and appearance, the fluorescent lamp was introduced some two years ago to the public and the illuminating-engineering profession at almost the same instant, giving the latter little time to study and prepare essential data before the former began to insist upon its application to every lighting field. The past two years, therefore, have been a period of catching up — of constant improvement in the lamp and its auxiliary equipment, and of rapid assembling of data on its performance and its limitations as a practical and economical light source."
"Electricity is used in the Navy as universally as on shore, and plants of 10,000-kw capacity are being installed on capital ships; much greater capacity, of course, is required where electricity is used for propulsion ELECTRICITY is used on board ship for many purposes; for example, radio, interior communication, cooking, heating, lighting, steering, ventilation, and for training, elevating, and firing the guns. On some ships, as, for example, our electric-drive battleships and airplane carriers, electricity is used to drive the propellers. In short, electricity in the Navy is used as universally as on shore."
"The electric-power industry of the United States is said to be capable of meeting any national emergency calling for more power capacity PREPAREDNESS for war-time power supply or preparedness for war in any other respect, does not mean expectancy of war or desire for war. But just as one takes out a fire-insurance policy as a protection against what he knows may happen but hopes will not, so it is necessary to examine our resources and abilities as though we actually did have to face a war."
"SOME YEARS AGO there was a flood of books bearing such titles as “The Doctor Looks at Love”, “The Lawyer Looks at the Law”, “The Poet Looks at Civilization”, etc., etc. I might have followed their precedent by naming this lecture “The Physicist Looks at the Ionosphere”. Better would have been to say “The Physicist Listens to the Ionosphere” for while the actual procedure is neither listening nor looking in the usual senses, it is rather more like listening. As a matter of fact we have all of us listened to the ionosphere — all of us excepting those who as yet have never hearkened to a broadcast from long distance, and who must by now be few. Any program which is heard from more than a few hundred miles, and does not come by wire, comes by courtesy of the ionosphere. When we are lending ear to such a program, we are listening both to the loud-speaker and to the ionosphere, since both take part in the transmission. Of course we are likely to be listening also to the news; but nowadays the news is generally dismal or frightful or both; and it should be happiness to be diverted for a while from what the ionosphere brings to the qualities of this innocent agent itself, which is not in the least to blame for the evil which it reflects."
"The record of significant trends, developments, and events in engineering education is continued in the fifth annual progress report of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, released prior to its annual meeting, Berkeley, Calif., June 24–28, 1940, by Professor C. F. Scott (A'92, F'25, HM'29) chairman of the committee on 1939 progress report. The report is based upon about 60 letters from officers and chairmen of the society."
"The employment service maintained jointly by the four founder engineering societies has been incorporated in New York State and its name changed to Engineering Societies Personnel Service, Inc. The move was made to satisfy legal requirements in some of the states in which the service operates. Officers of the corporation are: George T. Seabury, president; C. E. Davies, vice-president; O. E. Hovey, treasurer; A. H. Meyer, secretary. The present staff will continue with the corporation."
"A PROGRAM of technical sessions including a special student session, varied inspection trips, social and sports events, has been arranged for the 1940 Pacific Coast convention, to be held at Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30. As convention headquarters, the Ambassador Hotel has many advantages. Conveniently near the Los Angeles shopping district, it has 22 acres of grounds, with excellent outdoor swimming pool, pitch and putt golf course, tennis courts, and other facilities including its widely known Cocoanut Grove."
"THE board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its 56th annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1940. A general balance sheet showing the condition of the Institute's finances on April 30, 1940, together with other detailed financial statements, is included herein. This report contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in Electrical Engineering."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The application of traction motors is based fundamentally on speed-time curve calculations. This method has been used for many years and is familiar to electrical engineers engaged primarily in transportation activities. Many other engineers infrequently encounter problems of traction-motor application but are not conversant with the effect which variations in service conditions produce on vehicle performance. This paper points out certain recent changes in transportation requirements tending toward greater standardization of equipment, and summarizes the effects of varying operating conditions. The broad basis of economical application is indicated."
"THOSE FIELDS of engineering which utilize high-frequency electric currents and electronic devices have long ago graduated from the trial and error stage. The empirical experimenter who is ingenious and observant will always be useful, especially in some new and fruitful phase of the art not yet well understood. However, reliance has for many years been placed upon the ability of the engineer to design analytically upon a sound basis in the underlying theory and analytical tools are recognized as valuable aids and guides in laboratory work."
"It is found experimentally that the efficiency of condensation of mercury vapor on cold metal surfaces is quite low. The condensing efficiency of steel surfaces is increased several fold by positiveion bombardment of the surface. Nickel surfaces condense mercury vapor several times as efficiently as steel. The operation of a high-voltage ignitron rectifier was greatly improved by positiveion bombardment of the condensing surfaces."
"Electric-power loads are increasing rapidly on airplanes and auxiliary-engine-driven generators offer dependable power sources independent of main engines. Minimum weight for the required capacity is essential in the design of generators, motors, and control. The a-c 110-volt 400-cycle three-phase system has been developed for large airplanes with heavy motor loads. Alternators rating 12.5 kva at 75 per cent power factor and two-pole motors running at 22,500 rpm full-load speed are available. Control apparatus builds up the alternator, establishes accurate voltage regulation, and provides direct current for excitation and battery charging. The 24-volt system is applied on airplanes using d-c power which have relatively light motor loads. Generators rate 5 kw and are designed for speeds ranging from 3,200 to 6,000 rpm to conform to prime-mover requirements. Motors have been built which run at 7,500 rpm. The control effectively regulates the voltage, handles battery charging, and provides for starting the power plant."
"Data are presented on impulse-voltage breakdown values obtained on oil-treated paper-insulated cables over the insulation thickness range from 0.187 inch to 0.600 inch. The average stress at breakdown approximates 1,600–1,700 volts per mil. High-density papers show some superiority over ordinary-density papers. Cathode-ray oscillograms of the testing wave (1½x40 impulse wave — positive polarity) before and at breakdown are included for a typical test."
"INSULATED CABLES often are exposed to lightning and often have been damaged by lightning, especially rubber- or cambric-insulated cables of medium or lower voltage. It is also true that some service trouble has been improperly attributed to lightning. Knowledge of the impulse strength of cable insulation is necessary to analyze such cases correctly and to minimize lightning trouble by proper cable design. In spite of the practical need for such information there seems to be a conspicuous lack of it in the literature."
"WHERE power and communication facilities are in proximity, electromagnetic induction from the power system may cause disturbances in the communication system. The avoidance or minimizing of such disturbances, with due regard to the service and other needs of both systems, is a problem of co-ordination, which is conveniently divided into two parts, one dealing with low-frequency inductive co-ordination and the other with noise-frequency co-ordination."
"THE accuracy with which electrical energy is metered is dependent upon the apparent measured value of the kilowatt-hour used. Quite independent of the electrical operating characteristics of the watt-hour meters used or the accuracy limits within which they are adjusted, the average accuracy of a group of watt-hour meters is directly affected by the difference between the value of the kilowatt-hour used and the true value."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Television on a commercial basis similar to that of present-day radiobroadcasting has been predicted for some years, but experimental work has been costly and the technical problems involved in developing a satisfactory system have been extremely difficult. More recently, the problem of standardizing on a generally acceptable system has become an obstacle. The result has been that commercial television as commonly envisioned has been somewhat delayed. However, television broadcasts on a regularly scheduled basis began April 30, 1939, in connection with the opening ceremonies of the New York World's Fair, and now regular television programs are broadcast from 3 stations in the United States. Furthermore, 19 additional stations in 12 cities have been licensed by the Federal Communications Commission, and applications are pending for some 25 other transmitters in 18 cities. This activity, together with the increasing public interest in television, would seem to indicate that commercial television, at least in the urban centers, is not far off. The history of this new means of communication, its principles of operation, and its present status are reviewed briefly in this article."
"“For meritorious achievement in the development of apparatus and machinery for electrical transportation” THE AIEE Lamme Medal for 1939 was presented during the Institute's recent summer convention at Swampscott, Mass., to Norman W. Storer (A '95, F' 13) retired consulting railway engineer of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company."
"In the very fertile country of the great nation of the Buckeye, where the sweeping curve of Lake Erie cuts across the western boundary line of Pennsylvania, the county in Ohio is Ashtabula, the most northeastern county. Just below Ashtabula is Trumbull County; and in a little town on the edge of Pennsylvania called Orangeville, Norman W. Storer was born. This little town is so situated that when you retire at night you can hang your clothes in Ohio and go to bed in Pennsylvania if you so desire."
"During its eighth annual convention, the Edison Electric Institute at Atlantic City on June 5, 1940, unanimously adopted the following resolution as representing the attitude of the electric-utility industry of the United States:"
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"ALTHOUGH the general reaction of the Institute's membership to the present publication policy has been very favorable, operating experience under this policy has indicated that still better publication service could be provided with no net increase in publication expense if certain minor modifications were made."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A large number of people in several organizations have contributed to make an investigation of this type possible and to correlate the data in suitable form for presentation. The authors wish to express their appreciation to the Ohio Power Company, the Appalachian Electric Power Company, the Atlantic City Electric Company, and the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company, where the field work was done; and to those in the Engineering Departments of the General Electric Company and the American Gas and Electric Service Corporation who supervised the work and analyzed the records. Acknowledgment is made to the helpful assistance of George D. Lippert of the American Gas and Electric Service Corporation for correlating the records on which the paper is based, and to Doctor K. B. McEachron and D. D. MacCarthy of the General Electric Company for their assistance in organizing and directing the progress of the investigation."
"Electric couplings have recently been applied on a large scale in geared Diesel ship drives to couple the engines to the gear. They serve a threefold purpose by acting as a flexible coupling to keep the torsional vibration of the engine out of the gears, as a disconnecting clutch to enable any engine to be cut out of service, and as an aid in maneuvering."
"Ionizing radiation has been discovered to be present in spark gaps of the type commonly used in commercial lightning arresters for the last 15 years. This radiation is emitted from discharges near the insulator-electrode contacts, when impulse voltage is applied to the gap. Ionization is produced by the absorption of this radiation in the spark gap. This effectively reduces the time lag of breakdown. The presence of this radiation explains why higher impulse breakdown voltages are obtained with a sphere gap in the dark than with a lightning-arrester spark gap with porcelain spacer. The radiation effect observed here is similar to that investigated by Wynn-Williams in the three-point gap. This paper tells of experiments performed to determine the reason for the low impulse ratios observed with rutile-spacer spark gaps. The results of this study explain the reason for the low impulse ratio of the “quench gap” and the “ionization gap” utilized in lightning arresters. This new information aids in understanding why low impulse ratios are obtained in high-voltage lightning-arrester spark gaps."
"IT HAS long been recognized by the practical engineer responsible for the proper maintenance of high-voltage oilfilled electrical equipment that water constitutes one of the chief and in some instances the only serious threat to successful service. However, consideration of the dangers presented by water during the operation of high-voltage machines must not be limited to a study of the relation between the dielectric strength and the water content of the insulating liquid used. For successful operation, the cellulosic insulation must be maintained in a dry condition."
"THE CONCEPTIONS of lightning and of lightning discharge currents through arresters have been altered and enlarged by recent studies. Until not long ago the most complete information available on the magnitude and wave shape of lightning surges on electric systems has been that obtained by the cathode-ray oscillograph investigations of lightning voltages, reported and discussed before the AIEE,1 and elsewhere. Besides this there exists a large mass of data on the crest magnitudes but not the durations of currents in lightning strokes and arrester discharges. Based on the data available two conclusions have been generally held: one, that in a small percentage of discharges, the currents may be high, perhaps 65,000 amperes or more; and two, that the total duration of the discharge might be of the order of 100 microseconds, but not much more. Lightning-arrester design was based principally upon these conclusions. Arresters available during the past six or eight years have in general been able to discharge high currents of the durations cited without damage. In the field, the over-all experience with such arresters has been good. Throughout the country the average failure rate of Autovalve distribution arresters manufactured during that period has been less than a quarter of one per cent per year. However, in rural locations in some parts of the country failure rates of three to four per cent have occurred. This is considered excessive. The variation in failure rates led to the suspicion, several years ago, that there are characteristics in arrester discharge currents that had not been taken into account and which are themselves influenced by such factors as lightning exposure, stroke characteristics, ground resistance, and system characteristics. It is true that to some extent the significance of the data may be obscured by failures from abnormal system voltages and by the performance of obsolete arresters, but these factors were not sufficiently weighty to explain the observations."
"This paper gives the results of tests made principally to determine the effect of 6- and 12-phase mercury-arc power-rectifier loads on the performance of typical polyphase watt-hour meters. Schematic diagrams of the connections used and oscillograms of the rectifier voltage and current waves are included. The results indicate that the effect to be expected will be well within one per cent."
"The canonical equations of a general, linear, bilateral symmetrical network of n meshes on which are impressed arbitrary mesh voltages are subjected to a Laplacian transformation. The transformed equations are then subjected to a symmetrical component transformation. By the use of these transformations the transient behavior of an n mesh symmetrical network subject to impressed arbitrary voltages and initial currents and charges is readily obtained. The solution of the usual determinantal equation is avoided."
"A watt-hour meter on intermittent loads of a particular character may have a registration error. The magnitude of error is a function of the meter design, the periodicity of the intermittent component of load, ratio of intermittent component to total load, character of intermittent component, power factor of load, and adjustment of the friction compensation."
"THE practical work of inventing the polyphase induction motor, by Nikola Tesla and Galileo Ferraris, was followed by farseeing analytical studies of motor operation. Masterly theoretical analyses of the induction-motor circuit were made by B. A. Behrend, Alexander Heyland, and others. These men, through their insight and understanding, were able to devise ingenious methods for theoretically predetermining operating characteristics of induction motors bv employing readily determined constants. For many years these methods of predetermination were accepted and used in practical work. However, as knowledge has expanded and a higher degree of accuracy becomes requisite, it has been found that the older methods of analysis produce inaccuracies which are too great for modern requirements. The trend away from the older methods is clearly shown by abandonment of the use of the classical “circle diagram” in cases where highly accurate results are desired. The use of the former methods of predetermination results in inaccuracies due to several factors, the most important being: (a) unjustified treatment of the exciting current, (b) the assumption that circuit parameters are constant when they are not, and (c) failure to consider the stray load loss. The errors resulting from wrong assumptions may not prove serious for light loading of the motor, but discrepancies increase as load and slip become greater."
"THE tendency of power-supply and distribution systems to cause extraneous currents to flow by induction into telegraph lines has presented a diversity of problems which are of concern to both interests. No one solution is found to be of general application; rather it ordinarily is necessary that each situation be made the subject of individual study."
"This paper presents a theory of noise generation particularly adapted to use with small motors. Since single-phase motors predominate in the small-motor field, a single-phase point of view has been employed."
"Up to the present time, the only data generally available to protection engineers for determining the performance of current transformers have been the ratio and phase-angle curves of the current transformers in question. More detailed analysis of important high-speed differential protection problems has shown that these data are hopelessly inadequate for the purpose of determining the performance of current transformers during the starting period when the current wave may be fully offset. If the time constant for decay of the d-c component exceeds 0.05 second, large errors of transformation may be expected if standard current transformers are used. While it is possible to make special designs that will not saturate because of the d-c component in the current,1 such designs are usually considerably oversize and expensive. Furthermore, space requirements and economy sometimes dictate that current transformers already installed be used if at all possible, even though it is known that their performance will be far from perfect. The problem then becomes one of determining the actual performance of existing current transformers, so that a suitable relay scheme may be chosen. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the solution of this problem, and to present approximate methods of calculation not hitherto available. Attention is also given to the proper interpretation of the calculations with respect to relay operations, together with supporting test results."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"NOT OFTEN in any profession, or in any generation, does there appear a man who follows youthful pioneering achievement by half a century of truly significant work; one who, having distinguished himself as inventor and engineer, displays equal ability as organizer and teacher. The life and work of Charles Felton Scott stand to prove that the combination can exist. One of the group of “great engineers” of the 90s, he was for 22 years (1911–33) head of the electrical engineering department of a great university, and at the age of 75 is still contributing vitally to the development of engineering as a profession. In the pattern of his rich accomplishment certain motifs recur consistently: the ability to perceive relationships, belief in co-operation, and a gift for applying the same simple scientific methods to the solution of whatever problems he encounters. One of the few surviving power-age pioneers, he is today perhaps more widely honored and more genuinely beloved than any other man in his profession."
"THERE are at least five different features in our present-day technical education which are justly subject to criticism: (1) trend toward specialization in undergraduates courses; (2) lack of proper standards of selection of students to be admitted to engineering courses; (3) failure to develop in the student the habit of thorough understanding of subject matter and processes; (4) insufficient emphasis placed on development of student personality; (5) examinations and student grading which are not the true test of student ability desired by the employer. These, of course, do not each apply equally to all institutions, but can be accepted as fair criticism of the average institution."
"NOT LONG AGO I heard an engineer, whom I regard highly, say that in his opinion engineering and research were quite similar. In spite of my great respect for his ideas, I must disagree. Research demands the willingness to try anything once, however small the chance that the result will be satisfactory. The engineer on the contrary must restrain with balanced judgment his impulses toward novelty. His profession calls for a degree of conservatism. While he should be open-minded and receptive to new ideas, he should weigh the chances before going ahead. An engineer has well said that you never know how good a design is until after you have changed it. But that same conservatism may be fatal to success in research."
"Divergent points of view as presented at a forum held jointly by the AIEE and the American Engineering Council in connection with the Institute's 57th summer convention"
"Most of us have seen trains, but there are many, many people in the world who have never really seen a railroad, who have never seen it with their mind's eye, never caught the meaning of the thing, and never understood just what it is and does and means in the lives of all of us on this American continent. A curious sort of blind spot afflicts us toward things to which we are accustomed. We see them around us with our physical eye, but those that were here before we were, we are pretty likely to take as a matter of course — to take them for granted as we take water and air and other indispensables of life."
"Before presenting a point of view which I fear may be shocking to some, I should like to mention a point made by my adversary. That was the reduction in costs per unit in transportation by rail. This has been and is marvelous, but we must not forget that the eight billions that were expended in order to bring that happy result have brought to the poor investors one-half of what they earned before the money was invested. And the cost to the transporter has gone up from $0,007 to $0.01 per ton-mile. So there is another side to this case which I hope you will bear in mind."
"Colonel Wilgus' statement that the average charge to shippers, as measured by the average revenue for hauling a ton of freight a mile on the railroads, has gone up from $0,007 to $0.01, is true if you take a sufficient length of time and ignore the intermediate period. The seven-mill rate prevailed before the first World War. A great many things have changed since that time. For example, back when seven mills was the average charge per ton per mile for handling freight, the railroads were paying to government for taxes approximately two cents out of each dollar of revenue taken in. Last year the railroads paid in taxes just under ten cents out of each dollar taken in. In the days when railroads were handling freight at seven mills per ton per mile, the wages of engineers, conductors, and all other labor were less than half of what they are now. My recollection is that the average railroad wage in that period was 20-odd cents an hour. Today it is 75 cents an hour."
"DURING the great magnetic storm of April 1938 energy was expended at the rate of two billion kilowatts for a two-hour interval. Couched in more comprehensible terms, this is 100 times the capacity of all the hydroelectric developments in the United States and 4 times the estimated potential developments of the entire world. The magnetic storm of March 1939, which produced so much disturbance on power and communication lines, seems to have been greater than the 1938 storm; possibly it is the greatest ever recorded."
"The AIEE has entered upon its 57th year. As usual at this stage of the Institute year a new president is in the chair. He is very happy to be your president and proud of the fact that he is an engineer. In order that you may know how interesting he has found being an electrical engineer and a member of the Institute, he is going to risk criticism for lack of good taste and tell you some of his engineering experiences — not that he would boast of any of them, but rather that he might neutralize some of the pessimism brought about by the discouraging actions of humans. He trusts that his words may cause those members of the profession who have practiced for a time to recall their own happy experiences, and may indicate to the younger members possibilities for happiness which cannot be destroyed even by tyrants lusting for power. He started being an engineer before the days of vacuum tubes and electronics, yea, even before the days of “wireless,” by climbing distribution-line poles, fixing primary-battery-powered doorbells, and displacing coal-oil lamps by wiring old houses."
"THE only Institute District meeting to be held during the remainder of 1940 is the Middle Eastern District's meeting, scheduled for October 9–11 in Cincinnati, Ohio. Taking advantage of this fact, the committee responsible for that meeting has extended a special invitation to all Institute members and their families. In support of this invitation, the committee has arranged a program of unusual interest, and has emphasized the fact that Cincinnati is centrally located and convenient of access from all directions. Headquarters will be in the heart of the city, at the Netherland Plaza Hotel where air-conditioned meeting rooms will be available for the technical sessions."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The following message is addressed to AIEE members by Marshall Field, president of the United States Committee for the Care of European Children, Inc."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to outline the present status of electric braking in the railroad and urban transit fields and to point out possible solutions of future braking problems particularly those arising from increasing speeds."
"DURING the last few years several attempts have been made, especially by some foreign railways, to find ways and means to feed their 11,000-volt 16 2/3-cycle railway trolley system directly from a commercial 50-cycle power source by means of a simple device, or then to have the locomotives equipped with such apparatus which would permit using power at the latter frequency fed directly to the trolley line. In other words, it was felt that many advantages could be gained if the trolley line could be fed, directly, or over a simple converter, from any commercial power network which would be adjacent to the railroad's right of way."
"By using the prestored energy of compressed air for the twofold function of circuit interruption and circuit-breaker operation, a new and original oilless circuit interrupter has been evolved. This air-blast circuit breaker has a guillotine-like arc-interrupting characteristic and can be made practically immune to the adverse effects of circuit recovery voltage."
"The designs of European air-blast circuit breakers are not wholly satisfactory for operation in the United States as they do not handle high enough currents, cannot economically be built for high enough interrupting capacities, and do not conform to United States installation arrangements."
"The theory of quenching an arc by deionizing the normally conducting arc stream, utilizing a gas blast produced by means of an intense transverse magnetic field, is elaborated. Application of design principles dictated by this theory has made it possible to develop a new form of air circuit breaker for 2,500–5,000-volt service. These breakers are completely described, the theory of the De-ion interrupters is discussed, and test results are submitted. The problem of adequately enclosing the breakers is considered and it is shown that excellent interruption can be obtained in an enclosure of small over-all dimensions."
"THE air-blast principle of circuit interruption is a recent introduction to the United States, although interrupting devices utilizing compressed air have been available in Europe for a number of years. The service performance of European breakers has been satisfactory, but inherent limitations prevented adoption in this country where large values of fault current and high rates of rise of recovery voltage are the rule rather than the exception. Exhaustive tests on forms of available air breakers heretofore available have shown that approximately 40,000 amperes represents the maximum current that can be safely interrupted at generator voltage, and then only under conditions of moderate rate of rise of recovery voltage. This fact alone made it essential, if air breakers were to be utilized, to develop an entirely different type, since applications in this country have commonly required oil breakers with interrupting ratings up to 60,000 amperes at 15 kv. Even this value of current does not represent the maximum requirement, since an increasingly strong demand exists for ratings at least up to 100,000 amperes at 15 kv or 2,500,000 kva."
"The demand for oilless circuit breakers of large interrupting capacity to meet the requirements of American practice directs attention toward an improved compressed-air circuit breaker which materially extends the present limitations as exemplified by continental designs."
"ON power-transmission lines, wood, serving certain structural functions, simultaneously may provide supplementary insulation against lightning if properly chosen and applied. However, to sustain the power-frequency voltage, adequate primary insulation in the form of porcelain insulators or the like is essential."
"This paper is a presentation and discussion of the more important results obtained in a series of extensive tests made on bushing current transformers. In addition to the determination of the ratio and phase-angle characteristics, tests were made to determine the division of current in interconnected secondary circuits for conditions simulating actual faults in the primary circuit. It is also shown that most of the results obtained from the tests may be readily calculated from the excitation-current data."
"CURRENT TRANSFORMERS for relay service must be able to function with reasonable accuracy under very high overload conditions, and it is therefore necessary that their accuracy for such high currents be verified. However, in performing the usual accuracy test at very high currents, certain difficulties are encountered — the principal ones being:"
"WHILE all industries depend on the use of power few are more vitally affected by the circumstances of its use than the transportation industry. In this industry power not only represents a large item in the total cost of operation but, by the varied forms and ways in which it can be applied, exercises an important influence in the creation of conditions favorable to more efficient movement of freight and passengers, improvement in the standards of service and resultant promotion of the business."
"Conventional methods used for denning and comparing current-transformer performances are commonly based on their ratio and phase-angle characteristics. For years, these characteristics have been continuously improved, particularly with respect to the requirements for metering service. However, from the standpoint of circuit protection, current-transformer application becomes more involved and as a result, increased attention has been given it."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to indicate and clarify the status of the American railroad as a major factor in the generation and use of power, the extent to which steam-railroad electrification has become an element therein, the effect of electric-power costs on the extension of railroad electrification, and the desirable features of power contracts in connection with such electrification."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"FROM the moment that experiments with electricity were begun attempts were made to employ it in the healing art. The Romans attempted to use the electric torpedo eel therapeutically. In modern times we may first turn our attention to Paris immediately after our own revolution when Benjamin Franklin was our first genial ambassador to France. He was interested as much in the scientific discoveries of the day as in diplomacy."
"COAL is the fuel of the future despite that most hazardous of prognostications — dealing with petroleum and natural-gas reserves. It is true that new discoveries of the latter fuels have been keeping pace with exhaustion of older fields, but no one will admit that the oil yet to be discovered will begin to approach in quantity the proved coal reserves."
"DURING the past three decades, standards and standardization have become an increasingly prominent subject of discussion in technical circles. They are an important part of the activities of many of the influential organizations associated with industry that have developed during this period. In more recent years, this interest in standardization has extended to many non-technical fields, including that of the marketing of so-called ultimate consumer goods."
"CONSIDERED to be “easily the safest passenger liner in existence” the steamship “America” recently placed in service by the United States Lines Company is said to be the largest merchant vessel ever built in the western hemisphere. The new liner has an over-all length of 723 feet, an approximate gross tonnage of 27,000, and is capable of a speed in excess of 22 knots. Accommodations are provided for 543 cabin-class, 418 tourist-class, and 241 third-class passengers, in addition to a crew of 643. Originally intended for service between the United States and Europe, the vessel now is being used for “cruise” service to the West Indies."
"THE most important problem facing the railways today is that of maintaining revenues and financial structures in the face of falling traffic. Since the advent of the automobile a great deal of the most profitable land transport business has been diverted to highways, and this has resulted in a general decrease in net railway revenue, despite the fact that this same period of decreasing traffic witnessed a general rise in productive activity and the use of manufactured consumers' goods."
"IN GENERAL, transformers are designed for a stated temperature rise when operated continuously at rated output. However, load requirements under actual operating conditions are variable, so that relatively few transformers are required to operate under steady load conditions. This is especially true of the smaller pole-type transformers, whose daily loads fluctuate over a wide range, with one, two, or three peaks, depending on the type of connected load."
"SUPPLEMENTING the technical papers and discussions that by the close of the year will have been preprinted from the 1940 volume of AIEE Transactions in the 12 monthly Transactions sections of Electrical Engineering, a “Transactions Supplement” to Electrical Engineering will be issued in December, in which will be preprinted the 57 additional papers and the many discussions comprising the remainder of the annual Transactions volume. This supplement, together with the monthly Transactions sections, therefore will provide in complete form all technical papers and discussions published by the Institute during the year. This will be the third in the series of such supplements to be preprinted from the annual Transactions volumes under the provisions of the publication policy adopted in 1937 and placed in operation with the 1938 calendar year."
"The principle of co-operation — dependence upon the other fellow for what we may do — and its reciprocate — a willingness to help the other fellow — is not only good Americanism, but also therein lies the reason for the success of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. The Institute was organized in 1884: “For the advancement of the theory and practice of electrical engineering and of the allied arts and sciences and the maintenance of a high professional standing among its members.” It has never deviated from those objectives. It promotes its objects through the medium of its conventions, its publications, the work of its staff organizations, and such other services as it may render to the profession, its members, and the public. It is maintained by means of a tax on its members and such other income as it may receive from endowments, investments, advertising, and other sources. Therein lies one of its problems. Everyone dislikes taxation. Sometimes men forget the joy they had when they became members of the Institute and remember only the dues they pay. Clubs, lodges, and even governments also have members who fail to realize that these institutions can survive and serve only in proportion to funds made available by some form of taxation. In organizations such as this, the tax is almost insignificant in proportion to the benefits available for its members. Those who object to the payment of such dues must do so because of a superstition that all taxes are bad, rather than because of any scientific basis for complaint."
"TwiCE in succession, now, Pacific Coast convention committees have succeeded in establishing new records for registration at a Pacific Coast convention. At the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles, Calif., the recent (August 27–30) 27th AIEE Pacific Coast convention closed with a total verified registered attendance of 465. By 11 this tops the figure set in 1938 at Portland, Ore. Various convention registration data are given in some detail in the accompanying tabulations."
"SUMMARIES of replies to 1940 questionnaires on Section activities were presented by the Sections committee at the conference of officers, delegates, and members held during the AIEE summer convention at Swampscott, Mass. Copies of the summaries which were in two parts, were distributed at the meeting. Part I, prepared by R. M. Pfalzgraff, is covered in the following discussion, and part II, prepared by W. B. Morton, is represented in the two accompanying charts."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"With leases negotiated for the establishment by the United States of a string of air and naval bases in British territories from Newfoundland to Guiana, a joint commission actively planning the co-ordination of United States-Canada defense plans, the appropriation by Congress of an additional $5,000,000,000 defense appropriation, the calling out by the President of the first National Guard units for intensive training, and passage by Congress of a bill for general conscription, the past month in Washington has witnessed notable advances in the program to tighten up national defense."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"THE purpose of this paper is to outline procedures and discuss pertinent problems that arise when restoring service to a metropolitan system following a major shutdown. In the discussion, consideration is given to the fundamental plan of the system, pointing out the inherent features in the design which prevent such failures. Several cases of trouble which have been the cause of service curtailment have been discussed and the service restoration procedure outlined. A brief outline of the essential procedure is given for two types of service restoration."
"This paper sets forth briefly two general procedures that may be followed in starting the system of the Philadelphia Electric Company after a complete shutdown, and also gives some experiences relating to re-establishing service. There is also included an outline of some of the major principles of design followed in the development of the system which are important in minimizing the chance of a complete system shutdown and in facilitating restoration of service in the event of a complete outage."
"The bulk power system of The Detroit Edison Company is designed and operated in five power-plant load areas. These load areas are “loose linked” to prevent uncontrollable trouble in any one of them causing a total shutdown."
"IN the course of the last three or four years there have been a few instances in which generating stations supplying electric service in large metropolitan systems have shut down temporarily because of storms and floods of unusual severity or because of accidents resulting in fires which could not be quickly brought under control. These occurrences, while fortunately very infrequent, have focussed attention upon the problem of starting up a large system in the event of a complete shutdown of one or more generating stations supplying it. It is therefore the purpose of this paper to present: 1. Some of the more important considerations affecting the design of the distribution system and the generating stations in the Consolidated Edison system with respect to the ability to restore service after a complete shutdown. 2. The principal features of the operations involved in re-energizing the electric system, in accordance with a predetermined plan. 3. A review of some operating experiences related to the problem of re-energizing the system."
"BASIC insulation levels have been defined, and a list of proposed values has been determined by national committees charged with this responsibility. The purpose of this paper is to discuss some of the principles useful in selecting electrical equipment conforming to the requirements of that basic insulation level necessary to assure satisfactory service while operating within the voltage range and under the system conditions expected."
"THE electrical characteristics of bushings for different types of apparatus vary considerably for corresponding voltage ratings. This is partly due to the fact that different committees have handled the preparation of standards for different types of apparatus. Consequently the AIEE joint committee on bushings was formed in an effort to develop more consistent standards covering the electrical characteristics of bushings for all types of apparatus."
"SINCE the subject of “Rationalization of Transmission-System Insulation Strength”1 was first presented in a comprehensive manner in 1928, a great deal of constructive study and analysis have been devoted to the problem, and outstanding progress has been made in placing the insulation of an electric system on a more rational basis from the lightning or impulse viewpoint. Three groups have been most active in this work; the equipment manufacturers, the laboratories, and the users of equipment. Particular attention has been given by the manufacturers to increasing and protecting the impulse strength of various types of commercial apparatus. The laboratories have worked on obtaining fundamental impulse data on equipment impulse strength, and have set up approved methods of testing. Both the above groups as well as the users of equipment have co-operated in field investigations to determine the characteristics of natural lightning. Finally, the users, in co-operation with both the other groups, have worked untiringly to co-ordinate the entire work into a rationalized insulation system. This principle of insulation rationalization should not be lost sight of in the individual or group efforts on insulation co-ordination to develop particular equipment to meet definite impulse strengths. That is, the fundamental problem is one of rationalizing system insulation strength by co-ordinating the insulation strength of the various items of equipment constituting or forming a part of the transmission or distribution system."
"ONE of the early steps taken by the electrical industry, in an attempt to help solve the insulation-co-ordination problem was the formation of the National Electric Light Association (now Edison Electric Institute)-National Electrical Manufacturers Association Joint Committee on System Insulation Co-ordination in 1931. Before relating the work done by this committee, to acquaint the industry with what has been done to date and the present status of the work, it may be well to comment briefly, on what is meant by “insulation co-ordination.”"
"THIS subcommittee was established to study laboratory differences in results and methods in high-voltage testing and to propose laboratory technique to remedy these differences. Line-insulator, gap, and apparatus-insulator testing have been included in the scope of subcommittee activities. Some two years ago the subcommittee reported on flashover characteristics of rod gaps and insulators.1 Since then continued work on high-voltage problems has resulted in a markedly improved understanding of the situation and some further recommendations have been agreed upon. Section II of this paper gives general recommendations for impulse testing and Section III outlines the scope of the Committee's recent activities and presents additional recommendations, particularly as to humidity corrections. All these activities are definitely related to the major problem of insulation co-ordination."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The recently developed electron microscope has a resolution capability at least 20 times greater than that of the ordinary microscope, and research aimed at extending its range is still in progress. The importance of this new tool to biology and medicine would be hard to overestimate; industry also expects to find many uses for it."
"APAPER published in the April 1940 issue of the Bell System Technical Journal, pages 290–305, presents “A Solution for Faults at Two Locations in Three Phase Power Systems” and is an outgrowth of studies of double faults to ground in three-phase power systems made by the author, E. F. Vaage (M'39), of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, in connection with work of the Joint Subcommittee on Development and Research, Edison Electric Institute and Bell Telephone System. The paper provides a systematic solution, based upon the method of symmetrical components, by means of which currents and voltages can be determined at times of fault involving any combination of phases at one or two locations on threephase power systems in which generators may be assumed to be in phase and of the same internal voltage, and where load currents may be neglected."
"Although the characteristics of the mercury arc at pressures as high as two atmospheres were investigated more than 30 years ago, lack of suitable materials delayed until recent years the commercial development of practical high-pressure high-intensity mercury-arc lamps."
"The high-speed motion picture camera is a useful tool in studying rapid motion and has assisted in improving the design of electromechanical apparatus"
"A review of the various ceramic materials used as insulation in electric circuits, their composition, methods of manufacture, and characteristics"
"THE performance of the majority of sound systems is limited by the frequency response of the loud-speaker. The frequency distortion inherent in all but the most expensive loud-speaker equipment can be compensated by modifying the gain frequency characteristics of the associated amplifiers by the use of feedback. Not only can the relatively poor frequency response of the average louds-peaker be compensated, but it is possible also to modify the response of a system by this method so that the sound can be reproduced naturally at higher or lower intensity levels."
"THE recent introduction of low-voltage fluorescent lamps has created a need for automatic control auxiliaries. Several methods have been devised for the automatic starting and operation of these lamps, the most recent being a device known as the “glow relay”.∗ Earlier methods had certain disadvantages as to cost, effect on the lamps, circuit efficiency, dependability, and ease of wiring. The invention of the glow relay resulted from attempts to overcome these undesirable features."
"An extension of the equal-area method of determining transient stability limits, applicable to power systems that can be reduced to two equivalent machines"
"THE Cincinnati Section was host to a very successful three-day meeting of the Middle Eastern District held October 9–11, with headquarters in Cincinnati's Netherland Plaza Hotel. With a verified registration of 599 members, guests, and students the meeting established a new high record for the District, and one exceeded only by District 3 at New York in 1926 (700), and by District 5 at Chicago in 1927 (900) and in 1929 (600) among the 42 Institute District meetings that have been held since they were inaugurated in 1924."
"Two technical conferences were held as a part of the regular program of the Middle Eastern District meeting held in Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940. High lights of these conferences are reflected in the following items as reported by Chairman O. P. Cleaver of the Conference on Protective Lighting, and by Chairman J. L. Hamilton of the Conference on Motors and Applications."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Organization of an Atlantic Fleet by the Navy, a $25,000,000 loan to China to be repaid by shipments of tungsten, the extension of embargoes on United States exports of war materials and supplies, and the completion of an appropriation program by Congress allotting over $12,000,000,000 for defense needs marked an eventful month in Washington."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"A transient fundamental-frequency torque is shown to occur in the starting of all induction motors. For full-voltage starting on a general-purpose squirrel-cage motor, this torque may be as high as two or three times the pull-out torque. A consideration of such torques is particularly advisable for cases where induction motors are started and stopped frequently or continuously, since under such conditions mechanical failure of the motor or associated parts, gearing, couplings, etc., may occur if the stresses exceed the endurance limit of the material."
"RECENT papers have shown that high-speed differential relaying is considerably complicated by the presence of the d-c transient in asymmetrical through fault currents. This is particularly true of generator differential relaying, since an asymmetrical fault near the terminals of a generator provides a more severe d-c transient than at any other point on the system. The effect of the d-c component is to produce a false differential current during a through fault because of dissimilar performance of the current transformers, even though they may nominally be duplicate. When this false differential current reaches tripping proportions with respect to the restraining current, even for as short a time as one cycle with a high-speed relay, the relay problem becomes one of properly discriminating between a false and a true differential current of tripping magnitude."
"RADIO communication makes use of a medium common to the whole world for the transmission of many signals simultaneously. In order to accomplish this a high-frequency electromagnetic wave has one of its characteristics varied in accordance with the instantaneous variations of the signal to be transmitted. The control of these variations is called modulation. The various simultaneous messages can then be separated by: (a). Differences in the frequency band used. (b). Differences in signal strength. (c). Differences in direction of the source."
"THE development work and experimental results presented herein have been a part of a co-operative project of the Utilities Co-ordinated Research, Inc. (Association of Edison Illuminating Companies) and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The purpose of this joint research project is the investigation of the mechanism of the deterioration of electrical insulating oils and the development of methods and apparatus for the study of this deterioration, with special reference to its influence on the electrical characteristics. It was for this reason that it was desirable to investigate the conductance of electrical insulating oils and methods of determining the conductance of such oils."
"THIS paper describes a rapid automatic recording a-c bridge for continuously recording the power factor and capacitance during life runs or short-time tests on cables, capacitors, and insulating materials at a frequency of 60 cycles per second."
"The practice of loading transformers by temperature is growing among operators who desire to take advantage of the additional capacity offered by this method of loading. The standards now recognize continuous overloads in cool ambients and short-time overloads under recurrent and emergency conditions."
"Certain squirrel-cage motors are known to have a wide variation in starting torque depending on the angular position of the rotor. In extreme cases the torque may be actually negative at certain positions making the motor entirely useless. Various names such as “dead points,” “cogging,” and “locking” torque have been used to describe this condition but no detailed study of its mechanism appears to be available."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"SOME 60 years ago the electric-power industry began the development of a system of distribution which all are now agreed was not the right system. I am referring of course to the low-voltage d-c system. The inevitableness of its replacement by the high-voltage a-c system is now obvious to everyone, although the literature of the transition stage reflects a period of violently conflicting opinion."
"FOUR types of illuminants-high-intensity mercury-vapor, sodium-vapor, fluorescent, and incandescent-are used for various types of lighting applications on the new Pennsylvania Turnpike which recently was opened to traffic. First important “super highway” in America, the new turnpike stretches 162 miles between Pittsburgh and Harrisburg, Pa., burrowing through the highest ridges of the Allegheny Mountains with seven mile-long tunnels. More than 110 miles of the four-lane road is straight, the maximum grade is three per cent, and the worst curve is six degrees."
"NOT many years ago, unfavorable weather conditions meant the cancellation of all aircraft flights. Subsequent development of radio aids to air navigation have made it possible for an airplane to fly with safety under conditions of poor visibility, but it still is necessary to cancel flights where conditions at the airport of destination are such that the pilot cannot see to land. The problem of landing an airplane under adverse weather conditions remains the most important problem in commercial flying today. The United States Civil Aeronautics Authority (now Civil Aeronautics Administration), realizing this to be the bottleneck of safe flying under conditions of low ceiling and poor visibility, has endeavored to overcome the difficulty by fostering the development of a suitable instrument landing system."
"THE capacitor is a very useful addition to the group of equipments and materials used on an electric distribution system. Its greatest value is that it increases the capacity of circuits carrying reactive load currents. A complete study of the optimum balance between capacitors and new circuit capacity also involves a study of saving in copper losses, improvement in voltage, which may or may not increase revenue, and a consideration of such factors as new emergency tie capacity that may be provided by a new circuit."
"THE 1940 edition of the National Electrical Code, approved August 7 as an American Standard, is now being distributed; the indicated effective date is November 1. The publisher, the National Board of Fire Underwriters, expects a demand for over 300,000 copies, making tins edition the “best seller” of the whole series of 21 editions beginning with the original 1897 text."
"A RELATIVELY large amount of the work of calculation done by the engineer, designer, and student, consists of the repeated application of a certain number of formulas satisfying different conditions. When the number of variables entering into the calculation is large, or when the variables are raised to fractional powers, the difficulties and time involved may become very great. This process of repeated substitution can be greatly simplified by the use of nomographic charts."
"“A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year” is an old, old greeting but it is the very best wish your president can think of to send all Institute members as we approach that part of the year so interwoven with sacred American tradition. Indeed he would like to show his appreciation of the effective work all of you are doing for the Institute and our national defense program by sending every member a greeting card voicing the above message, supplemented by words of appreciation not only for that work, but also for the many things done to make his term of office so interesting and enjoyable. There are, however, so many of you (17,916) he must forego that desire and be content with the hope that every member will learn of his good intentions by reading this part of Electrical Engineering."
"Inspection trips to many nationally known industries and famous historical shrines will be an atrractive feature available to those who attend AIEE winter convention to be held in Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941. Other features will be a technical program of some 20 sessions of diversified interest, technical conferences, the Edison Medal presentation, a dinner-dance, and the usual smoker. Details of the technical program and further information are scheduled for publication in the January issue. Headquarters for the convention will be the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel."
"Information regarding the financial operations of the Institute is now given to the membership each year on two occasions, first with the publication of the annual report of the Institute board of directors for the fiscal year which ends April 30, and next with the adoption of a budget of income and expenditures for the appropriation year which begins October 1. The July 1940 issue of Electrical Engineering, news section, pages 290–303, carries the complete report of the board of directors for the fiscal year which ended April 30, 1940, in which appears a detailed account of all activities of the organization together with financial statements for the corresponding period."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"According to information recently released over the signature of Leonard Carmichael, director, the United States Government through the National Resources Planning Board is now engaged in developing a “Roster of Scientific and Specialized Personnel for the purpose of providing a comprehensive list of highly trained Americans possessing special ability in their respective fields.” The roster is reported as being jointly administered by the National Resources Planning Board and the United States Civil Service Commission, with representatives of the National Research Council, the Social Science Research Council, the American Council of Learned Societies, the American Council on Education, and other national societies as members of an advisory committee. James C. O'Brien of the staff of the United States Civil Service Commission is listed as executive officer of the project, and Leonard Carmichael is listed as director."
"THE dependency of the art of communication on the science of electronics is so great as to make a review of progress in electronics almost of necessity a review of the field of communications itself. While it is true that the early forms of telephone and radio communication advanced to a degree without the use of electronic devices as we know them today, the recognition of the vacuum tube as an amplifier and generator of high-frequency alternating currents in the years just preceding the first World War marked a turning point in the development of the communication art. From that day to this the progress of electronics and communications has gone hand in hand. The need of the communications engineer for new electronic tools has kept him continually urging the electronics engineer to improve old devices and to originate new ones, and each time the efforts of the latter have been rewarded with success, the fruits of his work have been immediately applied to produce new and more startling miracles of long-distance communication."
"IN comparison with the communication field, the use of electronic devices in other industry has played an entirely different role. In communication in general and in radio in particular, tubes and tube developments have been basic to most improvements. They have been truly called the “heart” of nearly all radio apparatus. In other industry, however, they have in general had to supplant other methods and to compete in highly developed fields of electrical engineering."
"IT IS interesting to recall that this art is less thana century old1 and that the early experimenters actually worked in the frequency range now called “hyper frequencies.”"
"THE peculiarly severe conditions imposed by manufacture, transportation, installation, and operation of highvoltage cables have emphasized the importance that full attention be paid to all physical properties of the insulation, especially those relating to permanence of mechanical structure and of high insulating properties. The requirement of wide flexibility is at the root of the present method of applying the paper insulation in spiral tape form in successive layers."
"WHILE the general principles of the operation of current transformers have been known for some time, and tests have provided much experimental data, the introduction of high-speed relaying, especially differential protection, required a greater knowledge of currenttransformer performance than was necessary previously. It is the purpose of this paper to present a method of calculating the accuracy of current transformers."
"IN most engineering measurements the readings obtained at a given time depend upon a number of conditions, such as temperature and barometric pressure, existing at the time of the test. In some eases the effects are very small, compared to the accuracy desired in the result, and can be neglected. In other cases prevailing conditions have a decided effect on the numerical values of the test results. For instance, in a determination of the boiling point of water, it is very necessary to consider the barometric pressure. In measuring the flashover voltage of an insulator, the temperature, pressure, and humidity each has a measurable effect on the observed value. Therefore, it has become necessary to select standard conditions to which certain measurements may be referred."
"THERE has been an evident need for an exposition of the factors relating to the rating of capacitance potential devices and to their application. It is our intention to review this situation indicating the several limitations which govern ratings and application, and to offer material which may be used in t h e preparation of standards for potential devices. Vacuum-tube equipment is not covered. The authors were requested by the AIEE relay subcommittee to write a paper outlining the basis of rating for the purpose of formulating standards."
"WHEN any part of the air path included in the insulating circuit of a piece of electrical equipment is overstressed, ionization occurs. The critical value of voltage is a function of the nature of the remainder of the dielectric circuit, the manner of use, surface conditions, the proximity of grounded conducting bodies, the temperature, and in some cases, the relative humidity. Ionization in air causes the formation of small quantities of ozone and oxides of nitrogen. The presence of ozone leads to accelerated aging of insulating materials, especially organic materials such as varnished cambric and paper."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes the design of a new d-c measuring instrument of the permanent-magnet moving-coil type. Alnico is utilized as a magnet alloy and the design factors involved in the application of this material to instrument design are discussed. A moving system for use with the Alnico magnet system is described and the resulting instrument performance summarized."
"INITIAL efforts in rectifier engineering have quite naturally been directed toward mechanical design. But as the proportion of industrial power load carried by rectifiers is becoming large, due to electrolytic plants (electrochemical industries) and other new applications, it is important to be able to solve the more difficult circuit problems without excessive labor."
"THE PROBLEM of automatically maintaining constancy of speed in rotating machinery is frequently encountered, aside from prime-mover governing, in such applications as d-c drives for a-c generators whose frequency must be kept unvarying to a high degree of accuracy for signalling purposes or for exacting test-floor operation. To satisfy the need for a means of effecting such speed regulation, an electrical governor has been developed and an analytical study has been made of the requirements for stable control of the governed system."
"THE phenomena accompanying the formation of corona about cylindrical conductors and the laws governing such corona formation have been under investigation for a number of years, and the relations of such corona loss to voltage gradient, pressure, temperature, and the geometry of the system are now quite completely rationalized. Corona or ionization also occurs in restricted spaces, such as the voids which frequently are formed in dielectrics during their fabrication, and this corona formation has important effects on the behavior of such dielectrics. An example of such restricted corona formation is to be found in high-voltage impregnated-paper cables1,2,3 within which occluded-gas spaces occur. Although the characteristics presented in this paper are for gaps longer than those ordinarily occurring in cables,4,5,6 data obtained with cables show that the characteristics differ only quantitatively. The effect of such gaseous films on the deterioration of the insulation is well known. A knowledge of the characteristics of restricted ionization has made it possible to separate the solid-dielectric and the ionization losses in cables.2,3"
"When rubber-insulated cables operate at higher than 1,500 volts potential, conditions may be favorable to the production of corona discharge over all or a portion of the outer surface of the insulation, or its braid covering. The cable may be on an inner metal conduit surface, or lie on a grounded flat metal surface, all of these conditions being favorable to surface corona at sufficiently high voltages. Corona discharge is known to be objectionable because of the chemical effect of the actinic ozone produced, and because of inductive and radiation effects, notably interference with radio reception."
"PAPER as used in the spiral laminated impregnated insulation of high-voltage power cables is available over wide ranges of density and thickness. There result important variations in the ordinary physical properties of the paper such as flexibility, tearing, tensile, and bending strength. Variations in the electrical properties of conductivity, dielectric constant, and breakdown strength also result. The peculiarly severe conditions imposed by the manufacture, transportation, installation, and operation of high-voltage cables have emphasized the importance that full attention be paid to all physical properties of the insulation, especially those relating to permanence of mechanical structure and of high insulating properties. Manufacturers of cables often utilize the several types of variation referred to in designing cable insulation to meet the particular requirements of cables for different types of service."
"IN three previous papers1,2,3 we have presented some of the results of our studies on miniature cable specimens started in 1934. In the first two papers the relative life histories and the results of post-mortem examinations were given for (a) specimens saturated with gas at one atmosphere pressure, (b) specimens saturated with gas at 200 pounds per square inch pressure, and (c) specimens, gas free but under one atmosphere liquid pressure. In the third paper we presented data on fluid flow through cable paper and showed that even with high-viscosity impregnants and low-permeability papers there was sufficient flow through our specimens to prevent void formation."
"THE electrical properties of liquid dielectrics have been studied by theoretical and experimental physicists for a long time. Of the various properties one of the most important, and probably the least understood, is the mechanism of electrical breakdown. To become acquainted with the voluminous literature in this field one must read not only monographs1–4 but also more recent important summaries and experimental contributions.5–13 One of the important concepts in the past has been that breakdown is initiated by ionization in gas bubbles thrown out of solution or suspension in the liquid. As a new experimental approach to this problem we set up a closed system in which the liquid could be continuously circulated through the dielectric strength cell with filters, dryers, and a degasifier in series in the system so that solid particles, moisture, and dissolved gas could be removed."
"ON a man-made island of 400 acres which President Roosevelt has referred to as our latest insular possession, architects, artists, and engineers have constructed a magic walled city about an architectural plan that combines the ancient designs of Burmese, Cambodian, Incan, Mayan, and other Pacific cultures into the unique and surprisingly beautiful Golden Gate International Exposition. One and a half million dollars spent on landscaping and another million dollars worth of sculptures, murals, and decorations have made of it a “Garden of Paradise” and a comprehensive artistic architectural unit rather than a disconnected assemblage of exhibit buildings."
"GRID-CONTROLLED vapor-filled rectifiers, or thyratrons, have not been considered in the past for use in blocking and sweep circuits for cold-cathode-type oscillographs because of their inherent ionization time. A search of the literature on the subject, and reference to manufacturers' data sheets furnished little useful information on this ionization time. A research program to determine the minimum ionization times of various tubes was thus started in 1938, and first results showed that minimum ionization times of 0.3 microsecond were obtainable with mercury-vapor thyratrons if the grid was driven sufficiently positive. These results suggested that these tubes might be successfully used in blocking circuits for high-speed oscillographs, and work on this phase of the problem is being continued. The apparatus devised for measuring ionization times made possible an extended study of the relation between ionization time and grid overvoltage as a function of anode voltage and vapor temperature (for mercury tubes) and it is the results of this extension of the original problem which will be discussed."
"THE East Bay metropolitan area, comprising the cities of Oakland, Berkeley, Alameda, Piedmont, and Richmond, is located on the east shore of San Francisco Bay. The population of these communities exceeds 500,000."
"THE development of the steam-electric locomotive for the Union Pacific Railroad represents the culmination of more than two years of co-operative design and research by scientists, engineers, and officials of the railroad and of the various manufacturers of equipment for this outstanding example of modern motive power. It is the intention of the authors to deal primarily with the electrical details but a comprehensive picture of the general features of this recent development is included."
"IN the operation of a large utility very often it is desirable to make practical measurements which are not generally obtainable from the usual manufactured devices. It therefore becomes necessary to make some unusual devices to record information that will assist in the operation of a large system. This discussion will present some devices that have proved very useful for years, and some more recent ones that are being tried out."
"IN establishing the rating of electrical apparatus there are many factors involved. The maximum temperature reached by any part of the insulation is one of these. However, the relationship of temperature to rating is a complex function and the rating cannot be considered as a function of temperature alone."
"THE development in the United States of the central-station industry from its inception in San Francisco in 1879 and in New York in 1882, to the present, has been made in two broad phases. The initial or pioneer phase includes the first isolated steam-electric plants serving lighting customers, followed by small hydroelectric plants serving nearby customers and later (in Oregon in 1889) with the development of higher transmission voltages, serving customers remote from the generating plants. Mingled steam and hydro power was inaugurated in 1895 when the Folsom hydroelectric plant was connected to a steam-electric plant at Sacramento. In 1899, also at Sacramento, and again in the San Francisco Bay region in 1902, distant hydroelectric plants were connected with each other and with local steam plants. It may be said that these interconnections of remote hydro supplies with steam-electric plants culminated the initial phase."
"THE expression “fractional-slot windings” is commonly applied to machines where the number of slots is not an integer multiple of the product of the number of poles and phases. Dead-coil windings (D.W.) refer to windings where some of the slots contain wedges instead of coil sides. We shall use the term (F.W.) in this paper to comprise all windings which are not (D.W.). The term (F.W.) therefore comprises both whole-slot as well as fractional-slot windings which contain no dead coils."
"THE application of shunt capacitors to distribution circuits has been well treated in the technical press. These papers have in general dealt with conditions obtaining when relatively small banks of capacitors are connected to the circuit 24 hours of the day. The increase in knowledge of the benefits afforded by capacitors through experience and analysis, coupled with the price reductions effected through advances in design and manufacture, has logically stimulated their use in fields where switching during the day, as governed by load and voltage conditions, is advantageous, desirable, and economically sound. These types of applications impose different duties upon the capacitors as well as upon the disconnecting equipments and associated devices, and the question naturally arises in the engineers' mind as to their effect upon the design and operation of the equipment. This paper offers a discussion and an analysis of the more pertinent of these problems. The conclusions drawn pertain in general to installations of 6,900 volts and below. The higher-voltage equipments may require additional considerations."
"SMALL-SIZE single-phase induction motors are used today principally on intermittent duty. In many cases this intermittent starting and stopping is automatically controlled. Loads are thus suddenly applied and as suddenly removed."
"QUICK determinations of crest surge potential values by a simple direct method are often desirable in the laboratory to supplement the cathode-ray oscillograph which records the entire surge phenomenon. The generally used sphere-gap method of potential measurement has, however, the disadvantages that a number of tests must be made in the process of adjusting for the breakdown distance, and sometimes the effect of time lag1,2 of breakdown must be considered. In particular, it has been found in routine laboratory surge testing in connection with insulation co-ordination that sphere-gap measurements are erroneous for short duration potentials even with irradiation3 of the gap when making tests of breakdown on the front of a sharply rising potential wave. Also on such chopped waves it is rather unlikely that the sphere-gap setting would be very close to the breakdown value and accordingly a large number of tests have to be made. It is at times essential that the actual breakdown voltage be recorded in a single test since some test objects can be broken down only once."
"THE time lag of electrical breakdown of various air gaps and solid insulations is of particular importance in co-ordination1 of insulation for transient lightning surges. Generally, time lag of breakdown is in part a function of chance ionization conditions in the breakdown path and therefore the measurements become often of a statistical nature.2 Thus, where a large number of measurements are to be made, a direct method giving immediate readings free from the delays of photographic development would be a valuable auxiliary to cathode-ray oscillography."
"IN an earlier work1 on the probability of glow-to-arc transitions in a low-pressure mercury-vapor discharge it was pointed out that these transitions occur in a completely random fashion and that the probability of a transition increases with an increase of pressure, cathode-current density, or glow voltage. In particular, cathode temperature was found to be very important, the transition probability being several times higher in a narrow temperature range near 425 degrees centigrade than it is at either lower or higher temperatures. The possible causes of these transitions were also investigated and the only explanation that seemed consistent with the experimental results obtained was that each transition was due to a burst of gas from the electrode surface. It was felt that even if the amount of gas given off in each burst was very small, the random appearance of these bursts from various parts of the electrode surface could explain the experimental results obtained."
"LIGHTNING research has been conducted for the past 13 years1–6 by the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company, the General Electric Company, and the Ebasco Services, Inc., chiefly upon that portion of the Pennsylvania-New Jersey 220-kv interconnection circuit between Wallenpaupack and Siegfried, Pa. This 65-mile-long circuit is of aluminum-conductor steel-reinforced three-conductor horizontal-configuration steel-tower construction, having originally 14-unit insulation. Since 1932 the 28-mile section from Wallenpaupack to Bushkill has been called the Wallenpaupack tap, and the remainder constitutes part of the Siegfried-Roseland line."
"IN three papers,1,2,3 recently presented before the AIEE the life characteristics of class A insulation were discussed along with the rating, duty cycles, temperature measurements, and application of class A insulated induction motors. It is believed that a paper covering the application of class B insulation to electric motors would be in order. This paper is intended to show the advantages of class B insulation for certain applications, especially in d-c motors for severe duty service. The d-c motors covered by this paper are for: 1. Steel-mill auxiliary drives (totally enclosed and forced ventilated): screwdown, manipulators, side guards, table, shear, pinch roll, cranes, etc."
"VERY noteworthy progress has been made in recent years in the design of current transformers for medium and high voltages. Previously most current transformers were designed and built according to the same general practices as a small power transformer, and its size, weight, and general appearance was that of a conventional transformer. The latest current transformers, described below, scarcely resemble their prede-cessors — their weight, size, etc., are but a small fraction of the older designs. A comparison of the principal data of two current transformers — one designed in 1929 and the other of recent development — may be of interest (table I)."
"ANTENNAS which are discussed in this paper were developed for two applications: (1) to serve as elements in radiating systems of localizers and radio ranges used to guide aircraft; (2) to act as receiving antennas carried by aircraft."
"THE most important problem in flying today is that of landing a plane under adverse weather conditions. A modern transport plane can take off and fly to the vicinity of its destination through nearly any type of weather by means of modern methods of air navigation. The use of the radio range together with flight and navigation instruments has made this possible. However, it is extremely hazardous to land aircraft with standard equipment under conditions of low ceiling and poor visibility. This limitation is the reason for the majority of flight cancellations of scheduled air transport."
"THE PROBLEM of developing an instrument landing system in which the pilot is kept informed as to both his location and orientation by the indications of a single instrument was put to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology several years ago by I. R. Metcalf of the Civil Aeronautics Authority. The solution of this problem includes the application of centimeter waves, the development of a straight-line glide path, and the realization of a novel instrument combination. Intrinsically and because of recent trends in aircraft navigation these features, we believe, represent significant advances in the art. The experimental development described here in general outline was carried on under the sponsorship of the Authority and was built on MIT's background of research on the broad problem of navigation in fog and on work in the short-wave field per se as a foundation.1 The apparatus was designed to demonstrate feasibility only. Commercial embodiment of the results is it is felt now within reach of the industry."
"THE introduction of loading coils in the telephone system at about the turn of the century brought special demands on magnetic and electrical properties of core materials, and set in motion investigations which have had wide influence on the theoretical and practical aspects of ferromagnetism. The first step in this development led to cores of iron wire, which sufficed for loading coils on circuits of moderate length.1 With the development of telephone repeaters and the extension of circuits to transcontinental length some 25 years ago, there arose need not only for loading coils, but also for network coils, which would have high stability with time, temperature, and accidental magnetization. Magnetic stability was at first secured2 by employing iron-wire cores provided with several air gaps. Later, commercial and technical considerations led to a core structure made from compressed insulated powdered material, first electrolytic iron3 and later Permalloy powder.4 This type of core is mechanically stable; it introduces in an evenly distributed fashion the requisite air gaps, while avoiding undesirable leakage fields; and it subdivides the magnetic material so as to reduce eddy-current losses. Although other means have been suggested,5,6 no way has yet been devised which provides these features so well and at so low a cost as the compressed powdered type of core."
"NARROW-BAND voice-frequency carrier telegraph systems for the operation of a single teleprinter over each carrier channel have been developed to a high degree of perfection both in this country and abroad. These have been admirably described in technical literature. The theory and basic principles of carrier systems have also been well covered. This paper therefore will confine itself to a working description of a wide-band system developed to meet the requirements of a telegraph plant in which all trunk traffic between large centers is handled by the multiplex telegraph method of operation in which three or four automatic printers are operated over each carrier channel. For those not familiar with telegraph terminology and practices a brief exposition of the differences between single-printer operation and multiplex operation is perhaps in order. The single-printer method of operation secures synchronism between transmitting and receiving machines by means of what is known as the start-stop principle. A start pulse is transmitted by the sending machine preceding each group of five letters-code pulses and a rest pulse follows each group of code pulses. For 65 words per minute maximum printing speed the single-printer method results in a line frequency of 22.75 cycles per second. In the multiplex method of operation synchronism between transmitter and receiver is maintained without recourse to start and rest pulses, resulting in a more favorable ratio between printer words per minute and line signaling frequency. At a printer speed of 66 words per minute, the line frequency by the multiplex method is 16 1/2 cycles per second for each printer or 66 cycles per second on the four-printer circuit commonly used."
"RESISTANCE-COUPLED amplifiers employing pentode tubes are used more widely than any other type of voltage amplifier for audio frequencies. In spite of this, no method of analysis is available for correctly calculating the complete characteristics of such amplifiers and design procedures ordinarily followed involve considerable cut and try. The present paper presents (1) an analysis taking into account all of the factors of significance in determining the amplification and phase-shift characteristics of ordinary audio-frequency amplifiers employing pentode tubes, together with charts which make it a simple matter to use the analysis; and (2) a systematic procedure for proportioning the coupling network in the plate circuit when the main objective is: (a) maximum possible voltage gain, and (b) large output voltage."
"THE consideration of short-circuit stresses in turbine-generator shafts and frames must be preceded by a knowledge of the developed electrical torque. The theoretical work for this subject has been done by Kilgore and Stone, and Nickle, Pierce and Henderson. As far as is known there have been no extensive measurements of short-circuit torques on modern turbine generators. The object in performing these experiments was to obtain data to check previous equations derived from theoretical considerations and, if necessary, make revisions."
"UNTIL about ten years ago the only cooling medium utilized for electrical rotating machinery was air. Obviously this was occasioned not by the fact that air has any particularly suitable characteristics but because it is the daily common surrounding medium which, of necessity, must be used for open-type machinery. Before that time, the need for construction of machines of constantly increasing size and speed had brought about the development of closed systems of ventilating. In these, facilities had been provided for conditioning the cooling air, but this had been primarily for the purpose of removing dust particles. The elimination of the particularly objectionable oxygen had not been attempted although for some time inert gas had been used in transformers to prevent oxidation of oil or insulation."
"THE object of this study is the development of a quantitative theory of hysteresis-motor torque, especially in relation to magnetic properties and dimensions. The theory is interpreted physically in an idealized case, and applied to a particular motor to verify the result experimentally."
"IN recent years, two papers on the subject of salient-pole synchronous motors have been published in which practical methods for calculating the starting performance are derived on the basis of considerations that take into account all the unsymmetrics of this type of machine; the authors of these two papers are respectively H. V. Putman and T. M. Linville. Application of the Putman method gives at small values of the slip torque values that are somewhat too high; on the other hand, application of the Linville method is rather laborious, especially when the damper cage has a relatively large number of bars per pole. In view hereof, the author presents in this paper another method of calculating the starting performance of a salient-pole synchronous motor, a method which also takes into consideration all the unsymmetrics of this machine. This new method is, on the one hand, much simpler to apply than the Linville method, while on the other hand, it leads to more accurate results than the Putman method. It has been used for many years in the calculation and design of machines of various ratings and speeds, and has always given satisfactory results."
"THE purposes of these investigations were: (1) to determine what the maximum temperatures of the copper and iron were, and to compare those maximum temperatures with thermometer readings; (2) to measure the average of the maximum temperatures by resistance and to compare the results with the average secured from the maximum copper temperatures; (3) to measure the surface temperatures by means of a special contact thermocouple, and to compare those readings with those obtained by other means; (4) to measure the maximum commutator temperatures in several axial positions by the contact thermocouple, and to compare the results with thermometer readings; (5) to determine more accurate methods of calculating temperatures; and (6) to determine how to decrease the temperatures."
"FOR some time it was hoped that the present active research in atomic nuclear physics would solve many of the unknown phenomena connected with the electric arc, especially the arc in vacuum, and that this would clarify some of the phenomena of the rectification process in a vacuum tube. However, in spite of the fact that little progress was made in applying the latest theories to the practical application of rectifiers, nevertheless, a considerable step forward was made during the last few years in the design of large electronic glass and metal tubes."
"THERE are many electrical applications which require alternating current at higher frequencies than those normally obtained from the power lines. These applications include: induction heating, the operation of high-speed motors, and the operation of fog horns and underwater signaling devices. Although motor generators are satisfactory for most of this work, their inherent upper frequency limitations and need for mechanical maintenance have led to the development of several alternative methods of obtaining higher frequencies."
"THE USE of amplifiers has become common knowledge in radio, but on the other hand, the term amplification has seldom been applied to processes in power engineering. Strictly speaking, we may say that a radio amplifier is only a form of control because we always tap a new source of power and the function of the amplifier is to control this power so as to reproduce the changes of energy flow at a higher power level. On this ground we might say that an ordinary d-c generator is an amplifier because we control the power output by the current in the field winding. Such a terminology would, however, be rather misleading because when we say amplification, we imply something more specific than when we say control. An amplifier should give accurate reproduction both of intensity and time intervals, whereas, controlled power circuits used so far have not met these requirements. In the radio-frequency amplifier we are dealing with a time element of less than a millionth of a second. In an audio amplifier the time element is about 1/5,000 of a second. The only device we know of that will respond in such a short time is the high-vacuum electron tube. In power circuits, on the other hand, the time element is seldom less than one-tenth of a second."
"COMPANION papers present some of the inherent possibilities and the useful applications for dynamoelectric amplifiers.1,2 They have also clearly pointed out that the inherent value of such an amplifier is determined by three characteristics: (1) ratio of response or sensitivity; (2) speed of response; and (3) stability."
"ACONSIDERABLE number of “amplidyne”∗ generators1,2 have been applied in conjunction with other electrical apparatus to industrial processes within the past few months. A summary of these applications indicates that the amplidyne generators are of particular value in conjunction with so-called “closed-cycle” control systems. A closed-cycle system may be defined as one in which the controlling agency is actuated in part by some function of the final output in such a manner as to minimize any deviation of this output from an ideal value."
"RECENT experience with bridges for the determination of power factor and dielectric constant of small oil samples over a range of frequency has indicated the desirability of improving their characteristics. These improvements or developments have to do principally with changes in circuit arrangements, a generalized representation of the bridge network in terms of controllable impedances, an increased sensitivity inherent in the bridge itself, and an effective means for controlling the influence of inherent impedances extraneous to the bridge measuring arms on the accuracy, precision, and dependency of the bridge measurements and balances."
"POWER-LEVEL and attenuation measurements are increasing in importance and a larger number of these measurements are being made each day. They are of particular importance in the radio and telephone industries where it is essential to know the power-level variations in electrical circuits and acoustic devices, the gain of amplifiers, and the attenuation of filters or communication lines at various frequencies."
"IT IS a curious fact that the phenomena encountered in synchronizing operations have received scant attention in the technical literature even though the phenomena have been encountered ever since two synchronous machines were first operated in parallel, and even though a large number of synchronizing operations are performed every day. Possibly the explanation is due to two facts; first, that the ideal conditions introduce no disturbance, and, second, that the synchronizing transients are usually not large but for analysis require consideration as a stability problem of considerable complexity. A review of the synchronizing problem has become desirable because of the development of new types of automatic synchronizers and because of the progress in the analysis of system transients in connection with system stability. This study includes only those synchronizing operations for which the voltage, phase, and frequency conditions are matched before the connection is made; it does not include self-synchronizing methods."
"IMPORTANT contributions on transient phenomena have appeared in the technical literature during the past two decades. Circuit analysis has contributed materially to the present-day knowledge resulting from studies of the following major engineering problems:1–6 transient voltages in transformer, generator, and other apparatus windings due to surges originating from lightning; traveling waves and switching phenomena on lines and cables; recovery voltages across terminals of circuit breakers and protective devices as affected by the circuit; response of devices and circuits in measuring voltages and currents applied in impulse and short-circuit testing; and others."
"THIS paper deals with the problem of transmitting Boulder Dam power to the Southern California Edison Company's system. Preliminary studies were made of this project on the assumption that it should be a high-capacity peak plant with a high degree of reliability of service.1 It was soon recognized, however, that this power was to be delivered to a system already well equipped for peak demands. This led to a reconsideration of the problem of disposing of this power and the fitting of it into the existing system of the Southern California Edison Company as a base-load-supply project. To justify this base-load operation, it was necessary to keep as low as possible the annual cost of a kilowatt-hour delivered from Boulder Dam to the company's system. However, since this power, 165,000 kw, was about 25 per cent of the present peak load on the system, service reliability of the transmitting facilities was still a major factor. In addition, it was desired to include those features of the peak-plant design which could not be added economically at a later date should the project be converted to a peak-load plant. High inertia constants and low reactance were retained in the design of terminal equipment for such an eventuality."
"BURIED bare wires are frequently used as grounds or counterpoises for transmission-line towers and also as shield wires for underground rubber-covered telephone wires. Experience has verified the effectiveness of such wires in reducing insulator flashovers for direct strokes to transmission towers and breakdowns of underground rubber-covered wires due to surges. Quantitative relations between surge characteristics of the wires and various fundamental constants are, however, incomplete. Theoretical considerations of surge characteristics appear to have been confined to empirical approximations of test results1,2,3 and do not reveal the relation to fundamental constants, such as the earth resistivity and dielectric constant of the earth."
"THE ability to determine and state what comprises the outstanding problems in any field of activity implies very extensive knowledge of the developments in that field and to state the unsolved problems implies even more than this. When we begin to consider what ought to be done or attempted, the assumption is that there is an accepted standard or goal toward which we are striving. The author knows of no clear and comprehensive statement of the goals or ends of modern transportation. However, competition is making it increasingly clear that if public transportation is to survive, the industry must strive toward higher levels of convenience, speed, comfort, efficiency, and attractiveness. Today, the public assumes that safety has been given adequate consideration. This, then, is taken as the major premise of the paper; that any development that offers hope for improving these factors, through the effort of electrical engineers, is a proper problem for consideration."
"THE OUTPUT of resistance-welding machines is generally determined by Joule's law W=RI2 where R is the resistance of the heated metal being welded and I is the current flowing during the welding operation. With the majority of machines, welding current is determined by the internal impedance of the machine, the resistance of the weld being but a small part of the impedance of the entire circuit.1 Therefore the value of R is the only variable which can change the output at the electrodes of a given machine for a given internal impedance. Designers of welding machines are familiar with the value of R for different welding jobs,2 however, there has been a lack of systematic study of this resistance. This paper indicates one method of evaluating spot weld resistance. Investigations were restricted to the most important case, the welding of the ordinary mild-steel sheets."
"THE problem of power-factor correction of resistance-welding machines is of current interest because of their widespread and rapidly growing application. In addition, new and improved methods of capacitor production have diminished the cost of capacitors to a point where it now becomes economically feasible to apply them in many cases where previously the cost was prohibitive."
"IN any multilayer winding carrying an alternating current, such as the windings illustrated in figures 1, 2, and 3, each layer of copper lies in the alternating magnetic field set up by the current in all the other layers. Eddy currents are set up in each layer in a direction to partly neutralize the magnetic intensities in the interior of the copper wire in each layer. As a result of the eddy-current losses in the copper, the effective resistance of the winding to the alternating current it carries may be many times its resistance to continuous currents."
"THE recent development of new permanent-magnet alloys having a high available energy has extended considerably the field of permanent-magnet applications. Prominent among these new materials is the group of aluminum-nickel-iron alloys which has been given the name “Alnico”. These alloys are characterized by coercive forces of 400 to 700 oersteds, residual inductions of 6,500 to 7,800 gausses, and available energy values ranging from 1.3 × 106/8π to 1.7 × 106/8π ergs. Corresponding values of these quantities for three other well-known magnet materials are given in table I, and characteristic curves for these materials are shown in figure 1."
"IN his now classical paper on symmetrical components Fortescue analyzed the behavior of synchronous and induction machinesoperating under unbalanced conditions. In this analysis Fortescue assumed that the stator and rotor windings themselves were symmetrical, that the rotor windings were either short-circuited or connected to balanced static circuits, and that the stator windings were connected to unbalanced circuits. Under these conditions there are unbalanced currents of a single frequency in the stator, and balanced currents of two different frequencies in the rotor. It has since been shown how the method of symmetrical components is applied when the rotor windings are connected to unbalanced circuits and the stator windings are connected to balanced circuits. Under these conditions there are unbalanced currents of a single frequency in the rotor, and balanced currents of two different frequencies in the stator."
"THE reaction of coils and windings to traveling waves which impinge upon their terminals is an ever-important problem in electric power systems from both the practical and the scientific point of view. Transformers as well as alternators are used at increasingly higher voltages and their insulation is thus subjected to switching and lightning surges of ever-increasing severity. A simplified but nevertheless rigorous conception of the wave propagation within such windings may therefore be advantageous. It may be used for coils in communication circuits as well."
"SINCE the importance of low dielectric loss in impregnated-paper cable was first recognized,1 attention has been constantly directed to securing lower power factor during the life of the cable. Although considerable progress has been made by close co-operation between cable manufacturer and supplier of the basic ingredients, instability of the insulation may result from: (a). Abnormal increases in power factor and dielectric loss."
"VARIOUS American standards for electrical apparatus provide, in addition to continuous ratings, certain short-time ratings, based on 5-, 15-, 30-, and 60-minute runs with the apparatus starting cold. Usually these short-time runs do not correspond to conditions met in service; for example, a motor very seldom starts cold, operates for a limited period of time, and then remains at rest until it has cooled to ambient temperature. Often these short-time ratings are applied to intermittent loads, such as shown in figure 1, in which T represents the total time for each cycle of operation; Tr = kT, the running time; and Ti = (1−k)T, the time the motor stands still. Since the short-time ratings do not indicate the type of operating cycle with varying values of T, k, and operating current I, for which these ratings are suitable, suggestions have been made from time to time to establish standard intermittent load ratings, especially for motors. Efforts along these lines have so far not led to any definite action because it is difficult to find practical standard provisions applicable to the many variations encountered in operating cycles. Furthermore, the present standard short-time ratings are so simple and convenient for acceptance-test ratings that there naturally is considerable hesitancy in adopting a complicated system of intermittent ratings. This raises the question of the possibility of devising various reasonably simple means for applying short-time ratings to intermittent load conditions without resorting to time-consuming temperature calculations, for instance, those used in the application of railway motors. In many industrial applications the cost of these calculations would be entirely out of proportion to the total cost of the motor and any slight saving in the size and cost of the motor resulting therefrom."
"AT the winter convention of the AIEE in New York in January 1939, there, were presented a number of papers on temperature rating of electrical apparatus.1–6 Since that time AIEE Standards No. 1 has been tentatively revised to favor the resistance method for determining the temperature rise and changing the limits for this method from 55 degrees to 60 degrees centigrade. Little data have been published on how the proposed changes in standardization might affect fractional-horsepower motors. For this reason the study out-lined in this paper was undertaken. It is hoped that the information given herein will be of some assistance in standardization problems affecting fractional-horsepower motors. It is further hoped that others who have similar data on fractional-horsepower motors will make them available, regardless of whether they may support or differ with the data in the paper, in order that correct information representative of the industry may be available to those who make the standards, or any future revision of them."
"IN the early days of lightning investigations surge voltages on transmission lines were measured by a relatively crude device consisting of a number of parallel gaps with different spacings. The maximum gap broken down, which was indicated by markings on a thin piece of paper placed within the gap, was a measure of the voltage. Peters,1 by applying the phenomenon of Lichtenberg figures to photographic films, then developed the instrument called the klydonograph. Much information concerning the magnitude and frequency of voltage surges on systems was obtained with this instrument. At about this time the cathode-ray oscillograph was just emerging from its laboratory stage of development and several investigating groups adapted it to field work. A number of records were obtained with this device which showed the rate of rise of the voltage wave, its crest, and a limited amount of information regarding its tail. However, the quantity of data secured by this means was quite small, largely because of the initial cost of the instrument and the necessity of constant attendance for operation and maintenance."
"On the following pages appear all previously unpublished transactions papers."
"G. M. L. Sommerman (American Steel and Wire Company, Worcester, Mass.): The writer's discussion of the interesting paper by Professors Paine and Brown is concerned chiefly with the graphs on the right side of figure 2. These graphs depict ozone formation and corona current as functions of the voltage applied to rubber-insulated cables on flat metal test plates for two conditions: (1) the corona produced between the cable and the curved ends of the test plate is included in the results; (2) only the corona produced along the test plate where the insulation is in firm contact with the test plate is included in the results."
"J. D. Cobine (Harvard Graduate School of Engineering, Cambridge, Mass.): The authors have presented a comprehensive study of the performance of a composite dielectric, under high electrostatic stress, such as may exist, for example, in a cable or the slot insulation in an alternator. The consistency of the experimental results is evidence of the precision with which the over-all characteristics of insulation may be determined by the Dawes-Hoover bridge. In view of the uncertainties always involved in studies of a-c gas discharges, the material presented agrees remarkably well with the results of d-c investigations."
"F. O. Stebbins (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The rectifier calculus as described in this paper makes available to the designing engineer a greatly simplified method for computing many of the characteristics of mercury-arc rectifiers such as output direct voltage, regulation, etc. We have checked some of the formulas developed in this paper and find them to be entirely correct for balanced supply-system voltages. Also they present a considerable saving in time and effort over conventional mathematics. In addition these formulas are no more complicated when the supply-system voltages are unbalanced whereas the solution of unbalanced rectifier circuits with conventional mathematics is somewhat laborious."
"G. F. Gardner (nonmember; General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): Messrs. Corson and Faus have demonstrated again the advantages which accrue when the fundamental properties of a material are considered in laying out a new design. By abandoning the orthodox conception of appearance and size, they have started out along a fresh line of attack and the result has been a design which is not only well adapted for compact portable instruments, but one which will find ready adoption for incorporation in larger apparatus such as potentiometers and the like. Since space and weight, combined with good accuracy, are the outstanding problems in this larger type of instrument, their contribution will be appreciated by the designers of this type of equipment, who can thus make available to the user apparatus which is lighter and more compact without sacrifice of desirable characteristics."
"E. E. George (Phoenix Engineering Corporation, New York, N. Y.): The history, condition, and prospects of power generation in California are presented in Mr. Markwart's paper in a very interesting, logical, and comprehensive manner. The importance of this subject to electrical engineers is self-evident. Similar studies of the other integrated areas might well be prepared for presentation to the Institute at future meetings. Many factors in the California situation are paralleled by those in the southeastern part of the United States except that the southeast is the victim of a more ruthless attitude on the part of governmental agencies. While development on the West Coast has been disturbed merely by a lack of orderly development, government policies in the southeast have tended toward the destruction of private ownership of generation, transmission, and distribution, instead of merely toward securing a preferred market for power generated under public ownership."
"V. C. Rideout (California Institute of Technology, Pasadena): Mr. Harrison's investigations show that the ionization times for various thyratrons, when plotted against the grid overvoltage give curves that are approximately equilateral hyperbolas. Because tubes of different construction, with different gases at pressures not accurately known, and with various values of plate voltage, have been used, it is difficult to say how ionization time is affected by tube design. If the results for the FG-81 and the FG-57 are compared, however, it may be seen (figures 5 and 8) that the argon-filled FG-81, which is similar in construction to the mercury vapor FG-57, has somewhat shorter ionization times."
"P. L. Alger (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): This subject of fractional-slot windings is one of perennial interest to designers. There is literally no end to the variety of the problems which arise in practice when the designer endeavors, on the one hand, to use existing punchings for a wide variety of machines, and, on the other hand, to continually meet new requirements of good wave form, low noise, minimum reactance, and other factors. The highly specialized character of these problems, together with their great variety, has caused designers generally to solve them by common-sense methods differing with each individual. Although little has been published on these practical solutions to winding problems, an extensive body of knowledge has been accumulated, which confirms and extends the authors' results."
"A. Fulton (General Electric Company, San Francisco, Calif.): The authors of this paper have described many design and constructional details of this 12-kv metal-enclosed switchgear installation. Additional emphasis may properly be placed on the safety features which are inherent in this particular type of gear."
"L. K. Sillcox (The New York Air Brake Company, Watertown, N. Y.): The writer has read with great interest this general description of the control and power circuits of perhaps as novel a steam-powered locomotive as the world has yet seen. Although resistance and regenerative braking are not new, the particular arrangement and control of the resistance brake on the driving axles warrants the highest commendations. In the past these means have been used generally to develop effective retardation only in the lower speed ranges. In this locomotive, however, some degree of resistance braking is made available over the whole speed range up to 120 miles per hour."
"Herman Halperin (Commonwealth Edison Company, Chicago, Ill.): Doctor Race's findings on the mechanism of tracking in high-voltage cable insulation agree with our findings in single-conductor solid-type 66-kv cable (“Studies of Stability of Cable Insulation,” Halperin and Betzer, AIEE Transactions, volume 55, 1936, pages 1074–82). We found, however, that tracking can start also at the sheath. While in our tests tracking was apparently started by gaseous ionization, free gas was not present in Doctor Race's samples and breakdown occurred at high stresses in the free oil space. Observations in Chicago on joints and on cable with expanded sheath showed that oil layers of considerable thickness may break down under lower stresses than thin oil films. The thickness of the oil film is, therefore, an important factor to consider."
"Wm. A. Del Mar (Phelps Dodge Copper Products Corporation, Yonkers, N. Y.): The effects observed by Doctor Whitehead all relate to cable fully impregnated with thin oil, as in oil-filled cable and I therefore confine my remarks to cable of that type, in contradistinction to the so-called “solid type.”"
"P. L. Alger (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): This question of limiting values of ambient temperature in which normal apparatus life may be expected under rated load operation has been discussed at length in recent International Electrotechnical Commission committee meetings. As a result, the IEC has proposed a dual value of ambient temperature of reference; a maximum or limiting value of 40 degrees centigrade being associated with a limiting value of 35 degrees centigrade averaged over any 24-hour period. The 35-degree-centigrade value was selected largely as a result of an investigation of limiting summer temperatures in Italy conducted by B. Cerretelli, who has kindly given me access to his data."
"E. J. Wade (General Electric Company Pittsfield, Mass.): Messrs. Bryant and Newman are to be congratulated on the excellent work which they have done in measuring short impulse voltages by means of electron tubes."
"C. M. Foust (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): That these authors are doing some real pioneering work in connection with instruments for short time measurements and time lag of breakdown is attested by these papers. Results achieved to date are important and it is hoped this work will be continued."
"J. Slepian (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): The phenomenon studied by Doctor Maxfield and his associates is the most important one in the physics of mercury-arc rectifiers and electric gas-discharge tubes. In spite of its great importance, until now, it has not been at all understood, and no theory which I am able to accept has yet been presented. This is true in spite of the fact that the practical design of mercury-arc rectifiers and ignitrons is determined principally by the use of empirically found devices for reducing arcback frequency, and the development of very high-voltage mercury-vapor tubes is still not successful, because of too frequent arcbacks."
"W. R. Appleman (Marathon Electric Manufacturing Corporation, Wausau, Wis.): Papers of the type presented by Professor Kurtz, “The Dynamic characteristics of a single-phase induction motor”, indicate the increasing trend of the university to co-operate with industry by analyzing actual problems and giving the results to industry to use."
"J. E. Hobson and W. H. Cuttino (non-member; both of Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): Mr. Butler's paper is of considerable interest at the present time since there is a definite trend toward the installation of large capacitor banks often arranged for separate switching of sections automatically controlled by voltage, current, or power-factor variations. Although the number of large banks installed with automatic switching equipment within the last ten years has been very small compared to the total installations of capacitors, yet the activity in this field is expected to increase considerably due to the increasing number of capacitors being applied on distribution circuits. As a typical example, quite recently a 1,350-kva bank was installed on a distribution bus, 4 kv, to be automatically switched in and out of the circuit in sections of 450 kva, the switching being initiated by voltage changes on the bus. After a careful study of the switching currents which might be expected in this installation, a small amount of impedance was added to each bank to limit the transient equalizing currents."
"P. L. Alger (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.) and R. E. Hellmund (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): An important feature of this paper is the information given on the relative values of winding temperature-rise by the resistance and by the thermometer methods. Figure 5 indicates that, due to the time lag of the thermometer temperature, the ratio of the armature rise by thermometer to rise by resistance is only 0.60 for a half-hour test and 0.67 for one hour, as compared with 0.87 under a continuous load. These ratios are for a totally enclosed motor, and even lower ratios apply to open or forced-ventilated d-c machines."
"C. M. Foust (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): Mr. Bell has called attention to the fact that when incoming currents at the tower tip are added, the sum is usually greater than outgoing currents. These incoming currents flow in along the ground wires and up through the tower structure. The outgoing currents under consideration are usually those flowing up through the lightning rod. An explanation which seems reasonable to account for the differences has to do with multiple strokes. Multiple-discharge lightning strokes have been recorded many times by various investigators using both oscillographic and photographic methods and the general understanding now is that about 25 per cent of all cloud-to-ground strokes are of the multiple-discharge nature. While it has not been demonstrated experimentally, still it is reasonable to assume that each discharge of a multiple-discharge stroke is associated with the discharge of a particular cloud area. Particular cloud areas are located in different positions as regards the transmission line and the point of contact of the lightning stroke. Assuming that a first discharge gives overhead ground wire and ground currents flowing into the tip of the lightning rod from one direction, and that another discharge because of the different location of the cloud area participating gives overhead ground wire and ground currents flowing in from the opposite direction, it is obvious that the two in-flowing discharge currents will not be simultaneous. In such a case the magnetic links on the lightning rod will record only the maximum value of current which will not be the sum of the in-flowing currents."
"V. M. Montsinger (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): Mr. Camilli is to be congratulated on his very important contribution to the art in designing current transformers with the arrangement of the insulation corresponding so nearly to the ideal as utilized in high-voltage cables."
"J. W. Butler (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The use of capacitors connected in series with the load, as well as in shunt with the load, is increasing in popularity at a notable rate. This is due in part to both the price reductions effected during the last few years through improved design and production methods, and an increased knowledge of the art of application. At first, shunt capacitors were generally used to improve power factor and series capacitors were used to improve voltage regulation. At present, it is not uncommon to see shunt capacitors switched for voltage regulating purposes; and now Mr. Levoy describes a fundamentally sound method of improving power factor with series capacitors. It is believed that the area between these two uses of the series and shunt capacitor represents a large potential field of application for the capacitor."
"H. T. Seeley (General Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): The authors are to be complimented on their thorough analysis of the dependence of transient current magnitudes upon the differences in voltage magnitude, phase, and frequency, during synchronizing onto the sending bus of a transmission system, but the calculations and the design seem to be based on a maximum voltage difference of 8 per cent between machine and bus. This will almost certainly be exceeded during system emergency conditions, especially in the case of the first machine to be connected to the bus, and it is under just such conditions that prompt synchronizing is most needed. Allowance for operation at system voltages down to 80 per cent of normal has long been considered standard for control equipment in unattended installations; the synchronizer described by the writer in 1934 (see reference 4 of the paper) was designed to operate under such conditions, and will operate with voltage differences exceeding 30 per cent of rated voltage."
"W. J. Seeley (Duke University, Durham, N. C.): There is available at the present time a mass of excellent literature dealing with bridge networks, the bulk of which, for the most part, being concerned with some particular network or application. It is a rather herculean task, however, to attempt to go through this literature for the purpose of arriving at a general over-all picture of what might be called a parent network, that is, a network of such generality that any particular bridge network might be derived from it as a particular case. A number of papers are available which tend toward such generality. These papers, in general, follow one of two lines of approach, namely, either by means of a generalized network, or else by reducing all possible networks to a classification. Examples of the first method are papers by Kouwenhoven and coauthors and Balsbaugh and coauthors, and of the second method those of Ferguson and Seletzky. What is needed now is a merging of these two methods, together with the one mentioned in the next paragraph, so as to make available a single parent network from which all possible networks may be derived. The development of the present paper falls in the first of the two categories mentioned above and is a distinct forward step toward the derivation of an ideal all-inclusive bridge network. Furthermore, it considerably clarifies the tie-up between network algebra and the required operating technique; that is, it shows distinctly the necessary manipulative procedure required to verify the various balance relations resulting from theoretical deductions, and it is simply done."
"W. V. Lyon (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge): A method, such as Doctor Pipes proposes in his paper, which avoids solving a high-order determinantal equation, is welcome. I should like to point out two things. First, the condition of symmetry which Doctor Pipes imposes is more severe than necessary. Second, the resolution of the determinantal equation into factors can be accomplished by means of symmetrical components alone without recourse to matrix theory. For example, consider six equal circuits, each having the same operational impedance. Let each of these circuits be coupled to one of six equal coils equally spaced around a uniform magnetic ring, so that the mutual inductances between adjacent coils are equal, between alternate coils are equal, and between diametrical coils are equal."
"S. K. Waldorf (Pennsylvania Water and Power Company, Baltimore, Md.): Messrs. Gross and McMorris have presented a valuable analysis of the burden placed upon station arresters. There is one factor which they have not evaluated and which is believed to be of importance. This factor is tower-footing resistances on a shielded line and I wish to inquire of the authors if their original data will enlighten us on this point. The experience of the Pennsylvania Water and Power Company may also shed some light upon it."
"D. D. MacCarthy (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): Messrs. Bergvall and Beck have presented an informative discussion of the division of long-duration lightning currents between arresters and the transformers connected to grounded-neutral circuits. This analysis confirms the prediction made by Doctor K. B. McEachron1 in February 1939 when he discussed some of the long-time discharges which he recorded oscillographically as early as 1937. In this article Doctor McEachron states, regarding continuing lightning discharges to grounded neutral systems: … the transformer winding represents a relatively small impedance to the flow of such unidirectional currents."
"L. J. Berberich and M. E. Bell (nonmember; both of Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): Mr. Berkey has pointed out a very interesting phenomenon in connection with lightning-arrester spark gaps. This was first observed when a rutile spacer was substituted for the usual porcelain spacer. The wide difference between the dielectric constants of rutile and of air leads to large stress concentrations at the edges of the spacer. Radiations are produced in these highly stressed air spaces which aid in initiating the gap discharge, resulting in a materially lowered impulse ratio. The same effects can be observed, but to a lesser degree, with porcelain spacers, particularly if the physical arrangement is such as to increase the stress concentrations at the metal-porcelain boundary."
"C. Francis Harding: See discussion, this page."
"Harry Diamond (National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C): It may be of interest to compare the Civil Aeronautics Authority system at Indianapolis with the system set up by the National Bureau of Standards at Newark about seven years ago.∗ Many instrument landings were made on the Newark installation and the setup was considered by many pilots as suitable for airline experimental use. The achievements represented by the Indianapolis setup lie primarily in the provision of control of the individual elements of the system."
"C. G. Suits (nonmember; General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): When the great complexity of the physical phenomena in a breaker of this kind is considered, it must be agreed that the authors have done a very satisfactory job of interpreting their measurements. Their discovery that there are regions in the current and voltage range of the breaker where displacement phenomena and cooling phenomena may be identified represents a fundamental advance in our knowledge of the interrupting mechanism. Too often in the past it has been the effort of workers in this field to prove that a single mechanism was active to the exclusion of all others. In view of the findings of this paper it is not surprising that it has been possible to make out a very good case for both a displacement theory and a deionization theory in specific instances. In the present case both are found and their domains are defined. The discussion of this question in appendix C of the authors' paper is particularly good."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–64 by L. R. Ludwig, H. L. Rawlins, and B. P. Baker, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1940 (September section) pages 528–33."
"M. H. Hobbs (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): Messrs. Ludwig and Nau's paper on the magnetic De-ion breaker presents the most recent chapter in the contribution of the De-ion air circuit breaker principle to the art of circuit interruption. Its 150,000-kva rating at 2,500–5,000 volts covers a number of industrial, distribution, and station-auxiliary circuit applications."
"D. C. Prince (General Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): The very interesting paper which Messrs. Edsall and Stubbs have presented should provide an opportunity for comparing the practice and performance of Continental-type air-blast circuit breakers with the practice and performance of those being developed in this country."
"Discussion of paper 40–63 by H. E. Strang and A. C. Boisseau, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1940 (September section) pages 522–7."
"William Fondiller (Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., New York, N. Y.): The paper by Messrs. Legg and Given, adds another interesting chapter in the development of new magnetic materials. In the past 25 years we have seen the cores of loading coils change successively from hard-drawn four-mil iron wire to compressed powdered electrolytic iron; then to powdered Permalloy, and finally to molybdenum Permalloy. As a result of these developments, the effective permeability of the magnetic cores has been raised from approximately 35 to 125. We are dealing here with the initial permeability, that is, the permeability at very low magnetizing forces, and with flux densities of the order of ten gausses. In this same period developments in connection with sheet Permalloy have made available material having an initial permeability of about 2,000. Looking at the matter superficially one might question whether it was worth 25 years' effort to raise the permeability of compressed powdered cores to 125, with this high permeability sheet material ready at hand. I think that a study of the curves of core loss and stability with superposed magnetization just shown by Mr. Given will demonstrate that no continuous sheet-metal core, no matter how thinly rolled the metal, could be made to meet all of the requirements as satisfactorily, considering cost and quality."
"C. M. Brentlinger (The Western Union Telegraph Company, New York, N. Y.): The introduction of carriers into the Western Union Telegraph system is a comparatively recent development, and has brought with it some interesting operating problems. Prior to 1929 practically all circuits were operated on physical conductors, utilizing ground-return circuits. With circuits of this type, transpositions in outside wire construction are not necessary, and the wire plant was therefore largely made up of nontransposed conductors and, except for short sections in congested areas, was and is practically all open-wire construction. With the introduction of carrier systems it was, of course, necessary first to do a considerable amount of outside plant work in transposing pairs, eliminating excess resistance, and loading cable sections to obtain suitable pairs for the carrier system. In order to keep the expense for this work at a reasonable minimum, the outside plant work was limited to those pairs actually needed for the carrier systems, so that the carrier leads now contain two or more transposed and balanced pairs for carrier operation, in addition to many wires not transposed and carrying ground-return telegraph circuits of various classifications. In this connection it is interesting to note that while the use of nontransposed wires is generally unsatisfactory in carrier operation, we have in-emergencies successfully bridged breaks in carrier pairs by patching with non-transposed conductors of the same ohmic resistance in lengths up to 50 miles."
"True McLean (Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.): This paper should be of considerable value to engineers charged with the duty of designing practical amplifiers, since it assembles for the first time almost all of the important factors involved in the particular type of circuit discussed."
"F. A. Cowan (American Telephone and Telegraph Company, New York, N. Y.): Mr. Milnor's paper is indeed interesting and should prove a worthwhile reference for those concerned with the problems of mitigating interference on telegraph systems."
"C. R. Hanna (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): This paper on the design of the familiar metadyne is very interesting. Where regulation accuracy requirements are not too great, this device may be used, but as the author points out, a nice balance between the compensating field and the armature ampere turns due to load current is required for high amplification, and this balance, of course, is subject to definite practical limitations."
"P. L. Alger (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The advance of engineering in recent years has been especially marked by the joint use of widely different branches of engineering knowledge in a single structure, as, for example, the combined electrical, mechanical, and thermal theories underlying such developments as the Magne-Blast breaker and the hydrogen-cooled machine."
"K. M. Sparrow and E. C. Watson (non-member; both of Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): Since 1928 our company has been applying a rotating regulator to certain applications. We have had many problems arising out of its application."
"C. O. Werres (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): One point which has been mentioned by Messrs. Gebelein and Elzi should be given more consideration sooner or later. I refer to the saturation that occurs in relays when they are subjected to overcurrents. This, of course, changes their impedance so that characteristics determined by either test or calculation which are usually made on the basis of nonsaturating burdens are not correct. Fortunately, the actual burden is less than the supposed burden and hence the transformer is better than indicated by the test or calculation. Offhand this does not sound too serious and it is not, if, for example, the errors in all transformers involved in a given setup using a percentage differential relay are kept below the relay setting. However, if this should not be done, it is conceivable that the effect of saturation of the burden might effect one transformer more than another to such an extent as to cause trouble."
"C. A. Woods, Jr. (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): This paper, like the Gebelein-Elzi (Transactions pages 541–6) and Woods — Bottonari (Transactions pages 554–60) papers, proposes a method of calculating the steady-state performance of current transformers from their fundamental data; consisting of the excitation characteristics, and the values of secondary resistance and leakage reactance. It differs from these other papers in that it is not restricted to bushing-type current transformers, in which the leakage reactance has usually been found sufficiently small that it may be neglected for most relay applications."
"G. B. Dodds (Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): Aside from the calculation of ratio curves and determination of leakage currents, there are other uses of excitation curves. One of the most useful and easiest to use is a quick method of determining the approximate range over which the current transformer will perform without any great deviation from normal ratio for any given combination of burden and secondary currents. This is covered in appendix III, item c (linear performance range). For example, in figure 1 of this discussion are shown excitation curves of various types of current transformers, including both wound primary and through type. Ratio curves of the same current transformer at burdens of four ohms and two ohms respectively are shown on figures 2 and 3. It can be observed that overcurrent ratio performance of various types of current transformers is in the same order as the excitation curves shown in figure 1; that is, the current transformers having the lowest voltage excitation curves perform the poorest during heavy overcurrents."
"T. R. Halman (The Detroit Edison Company, Detroit, Mich.): The methods described in the paper by Messrs. Wentz and Sonnemann for determining the performance of current transformers under high values of primary current involving fully offset waves should be of great value to those interested in applying instantaneous bus differential protection. The problem is particularly important where it is desired to use existing current transformers having relatively low ratios and moderate-sized cores."
"Samuel Noodleman (Delco Products, Dayton, Ohio): The author has presented a very interesting attack on the problem of magnetic noise in single-phase motors. The theory is unique in that it develops a method of calculating the actual harmonic forces which act on the stator. There are, however, conditions which do not seem to agree with the results of this paper. For example, from the assumption of a uniform air gap and constant permeance it would be assumed that the magnetic noise of motors with tunnel-slot rotors would check very nicely with this theory. Actually the magnetic frequency spectra of motors with open-slot rotors agree much closer with the results of this paper than do those having closed rotor slots."
"W. J. Lyman (Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): The so-called “loose link” system described in Mr. Dean's paper is an excellent example of a sound principle of system design which strikes an economic balance between two opposing relationships. In general, the more extensive the generation and distribution system which runs tied together in a close network, the better is the generating economy and the more efficiently are the circuit capacities utilized. In contrast to this, as the extent and complexity of the network is increased, the protection becomes more expensive, short-circuit currents require larger breakers, and many of the operating problems become difficult, particularly during trouble. These two opposing tendencies fix an economic limit to the size of the system which should be closely tied together. Following this principle, a large system can be divided into two or more parts, loosely linked together, without any over-all sacrifice in economy and with much better operating characteristics. Relatively high reactances can be placed at natural division points which normally carry little load but which can still take advantage of the diversity between load areas through moderate interchange of power."
"A. P. Hayward: Mr. Corney has mentioned the statements concerning the probability of hurricanes and sleet storms occurring in the Pittsburgh area. The weather records do not disclose any hurricanes of the type experienced along the seaboard. The mountains to the east are believed to be a very effective barrier to the full force of any hurricane coming inland and to a certain degree prevent the occurrence of any destructive tornadoes of the type experienced in the Midwest. However, local wind storms of hurricane velocity are not uncommon and, in general, the overhead structures are constructed and adequate clearance provided to withstand these conditions. The sleet hazard is relatively great in this area but for some unforeseen reason there have been no major sleet difficulties on the Duquesne Light system for many years, in spite of severe sleet storms immediately adjacent to the Duquesne Light territory."
"L. G. Smith (Consolidated Gas Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore, Md.): The paper on the Philadelphia system covers the problem of re-energizing a system supplied by both steam and hydroelectric plants and also interconnected with other systems. On such a system it is difficult to formulate a single procedure of restoring service after a complete shutdown. Several procedures must be considered, depending on the relation between hydro and steam generation; the loads in the various load areas at the time of the trouble; and the amount and direction of power flow in the interconnections. The authors have emphasized one point that is believed to be essential: that is, to clear the busses immediately. Whether one or all stations are involved, the busses in the affected stations should be cleared if differential-relay protection has not already accomplished this. This procedure may prevent the spread of the trouble and will facilitate the orderly restoration of service. The need for co-ordination with the boiler operators stressed by the authors is also of vital importance. Any instructions should require the notification of the boiler operators of the load to be restored so that load will not be connected unless it can be carried. This might involve a detailed listing of duties and responsibilities of all operating personnel."
"W. E. Caldwell (nonmember; Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., New York): The paper by Messrs. Milne and Otten presents a practical procedure for re-energizing a large electrical system and the comments I have to offer deal primarily with the incidental problems in the mechanical plant and more especially in the boiler plant."
"Sidney Withington (New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company, New Haven, Conn.): The papers by Messrs. Torchio and Hill cover in an interesting manner the salient requirements of railroad power supply. Mr. Torchio points out that where the railroad operates its own generating station, jointly with purchase of power, the less-efficient railway plants may be operated for a minimum number of hours, as is the ease with utilities owning generating capacity of older vintage. This may be advantageous if the price of energy in connection with purchased power is sufficiently low. It is, however, often the fact that even in the case of a relatively inefficient railway plant, as modern plants go, the incremental or energy cost may be less than the incremental or energy charge of purchased power. This removes the incentive for the railroad to take all the energy possible through its purchased supply."
"I. K. Dortort (Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company, Milwaukee, Wis.): Mr. Marti's paper recapitulates the development of static frequency changers. Much has already been written on this subject, pioneering installations have been made, and there can be little doubt that the near future will see an expansion in this field."
"G. F. Jones (nonmember; Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): Mr. Marti has given an interesting description of the Excitron. He has also made several statements about the ignitron which we believe he would not have made had he been more familiar with its construction and operation."
"Sidney Withington (New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Company, New Haven, Conn.): One item in this valuable paper which it may be of interest to note, is that in development of dynamic braking as compared with regenerative braking on heavy trains, the dynamic method is relatively more common abroad. It is of interest to note that in this country the regenerative braking has been developed in territory where the power supply is either from hydroelectric sources or from power plants located in the midst of coal fields where the cost of fuel is minimum. The value of the regenerated energy in both cases is thus relatively very low."
"G. M. Woods (nonmember; Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): A common weakness of human nature is to feel that one's particular line of work is very ably conducted, and there is room for only minor improvement. Mr. Noertker's paper points out new lines of activity for improvement of electrical engineering in the transportation field."
"Eric T. B. Gross (Ithaca, N. Y.): Appreciation is due to Messrs. A. A. Kroneberg and E. M. Hunter for publishing their paper, which contains some new and very important data, and seems to me to be one of the most interesting in the field of the application of earth-fault coils, published recently in this country. Although earth-fault coils have been used on 220-kv lines for the past ten years on the lines of the R.W.E., connecting the water-power stations in the region of Vorarlberg in Austria with the steam power stations in northwest Germany, by a double-circuit line not far from the French and Belgian border, no data concerning tests or practical experience have been published by the R.W.E. (Rheinisch Westfaelisches Elektrizitaetswerk) so far. But as I am somewhat familiar with these questions, I want to report that the results were satisfactory and that nothing unexpected has been observed, besides perhaps the necessity of cleaning the insulators more often in the misty coal-mine district near the Belgian border. The length of said double-circuit line is more than twice that of the Boulder-Chino line, but the in-phase component of the fundamental wave of the compensated earth-fault current of one circuit is only about 70 amperes or seven per cent of the whole capacitive earth-fault current. It may be worth mentioning, that earth faults on one of the circuits of the double line do not influence the other circuit, as decoupling coils are also in use.1"
"R. M. Schahfer (nonmember; Northern Indiana Public Service Co., Hammond, Ind.): The authors' method of presenting data on the impulse value of wood alone and in combination with other types of insulators commonly found in transmission lines is new. The graphs accompanying the paper are excellent and are readily applicable for analyzing various structure problems."
"J. H. Hagenguth (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): The author is to be congratulated on his mathematical analysis of the impedance characteristics of counterpoises for lightning currents. The author by using the fundamental constants of resistivity, inductivity, and resistivity of the earth arrives at values of surge impedance which begin at zero at the moment the current wave arrives, reach a maximum value, and decrease to a value equal to the ground resistance of the counterpoise."
"Wm. M. Young (Ohio University, Athens): This paper indicates very interesting results on a very major problem, a problem which vitally affects the revenue received by utilities and the charges made to consumers that have loads which are not steady in character. The problem is extremely important and naturally creates wide interest."
"Walter C. Wagner (Philadelphia Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): The authors are to be sincerely congratulated upon the effective work which they have done and upon their method of presentation. All research work of a reliable character that can be done on this subject will serve to make more clear the present atmosphere of uncertainty that faces the operating companies when measuring loads of this character."
"Raymond Bailey (Philadelphia Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): This paper is particularly valuable not only because it covers a subject which is of widespread interest, but also because it combines design and experience information in a way that is so useful to the engineer."
"T. D. Reimers (Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., New York, N. Y.): This paper presents valuable data concerning the effect of moisture in liquid dielectrics and on solid dielectrics immersed in the liquid. It is evident that the data presented open a field for further research and may lead to the introduction of field service tests other than dielectric strength as a criterion of the operating condition of liquid dielectrics."
"S. B. Crary (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): This paper is a valuable contribution in two respects. First, the instantaneous calculated short-circuit torques for three types of faults are confirmed within practical accuracy by actual test. Second, equations are developed for the unidirectional torques which influence the machine and system stability characteristics."
"J. E. Clem (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): This report is another step in the advance of the industry toward the establishment of a uniform and orderly array of insulation levels to be used for the application of electrical equipment. Because the report affects all the major lines of equipment, it should be considered very, very carefully before the values suggested are definitely adopted."
"C. A. Powel (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): This paper by Messrs. Sporn and Gross, dealing with the margin between the levels to be protected and the levels held by the protective devices, is very important, because on these margins depends the entire justification for the basic levels to be submitted for consideration by the joint committee on insulation co-ordination, as proposed in the Sporn-Powel paper. It must be recognized that a proper choice of basic levels is of great economic importance to the industry. The margins shown in the paper are very moderate and might be considered in some cases inadequate except for the fact that other factors, such as rapid decay of the lightning surge and the small probability factor of heavy surges, come into the picture and help the situation."
"W. H. Cooney (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): Since the principles of co-ordination were started more than ten years ago, the units of measurement have changed from insulators, to rod gaps, to kilovolts, as the knowledge of impulse voltages was increased by work in laboratory and field, but the fundamental ideas have been retained. Now we are thinking in terms of basic insulation levels, and Messrs. Foote and North have shown by three excellent examples how the insulation strengths of the component pieces of equipment of a station can be properly related."
"L. Wetherill (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): Anyone who has followed the development of the proposed bushing standards from the study of the various conflicting and inaccurately defined practices used in the past through to the development of the consistent and rational requirements which have been proposed will agree that Mr. Henry is to be congratulated on the accomplishments of his committee."
"Discussion of paper 40–38 by the EEI-NEMA subcommittee on correlation of laboratory data, presented at the A I E E winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1940 (October section) pages 598–602."
"Wayne J. Morrill (General Electric Company, Fort Wayne, Ind.): Professor Teare has made an important contribution to the theory of hysteresis motors. His work outlines a method for approaching the problem of predetermining hysteresis-motor torque, and the data and conclusions given in his paper should be of considerable value to those actually designing such motors. I think it is no discredit to Professor Teare's work to say that a thorough analysis of all the aspects of hysteresis-motor performance has merely received a good start and Professor Teare's paper leaves open considerable opportunity for further investigation. It is to be hoped that further efforts, extending Professor Teare's work, will be forthcoming at future meetings of the Institute."
"Quentin Graham (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): This paper deals with aspects of induction-motor operation which usually have been omitted from elementary textbooks and have had rather infrequent attention in the technical journals. For that reason the authors probably are justified in their references to what they have considered as the conventional methods. I believe, however, that the paper may give a false idea of the actual methods of practicing engineers. In particular the following items may be noted as representative of present-day design practice: 1. The rotor resistance is treated as a variable and appropriate values are taken depending on the slip. 2. The rotor reactance is varied with the slip. 3. The effect of saturation of the leakage paths is calculated so that the correct values are used for locked current and for full-load current. 4. The effects of flux harmonics on losses and torques are considered. 5. When motors are tested actual speed-torque curves are measured over the complete range of positive and negative speeds and at oversynchronous speeds rather than being constructed from no-load and locked-rotor test data."
"T. M. Linville (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The paper suggests the use of the contact thermocouple for measuring surface temperatures. The thermometer has the advantage of simplicity since any number of them can be placed in position rapidly and read repeatedly in succession with little chance of error. It is conceivable that a number of thermocouples could be attached to the rotor after shutdown and read repeatedly in succession without disturbing them. However, it has always appeared more satisfactory to use thermometers. Therefore, in connection with data relating internal and surface temperatures, it is recommended that thermometers be used to determine the latter. Other methods of measuring surface temperatures include the use of alloys having melting points about ten degrees apart, fastened to the armature in inaccessible spots and covered with thermal insulation, pyrometers, and (for commutators) thermocouples placed in a hole drilled in the face of brushes which are electrically and thermally insulated. In connection with the use of thermocouples, the leads may be brought out through copper and “copnic” slip rings without difficulty, using leaf brushes of the same material."
"C. C. Hutchins (Elliott Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): The authors' paper on electric couplings is very timely and several points in connection with the design are very interestingly treated."
"C. C. Hutchins (Elliott Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): Every engineer who is engaged in the design of synchronous motors is confronted with the necessity of acquiring a method of calculating the speed-torque and current-torque starting characteristics of a particular motor from its dimensions. Prior to the appearance of the two papers mentioned by the author, there was available only a moderate amount of useful published information in this particular branch of electrical design. Each individual engineer had, however, accumulated certain methods and criteria applying to his particular style of machine. The collection of such information is rather a formidable task as the author has stated."
"L. F. Kennedy (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): To me the most valuable part of the paper presented by Messrs. Clem and Langguth is the appendix. It indicates, that through the experience gained from several years of use, the industry is now ready to standardize performance, and the user can now specify the class of device he needs from published data. While there may be suggested revisions in this material before its final adoption as a standard, the fact that ratings and performance characteristics have been established, at least tentatively, is indicative of the progress that has been made in the design of potential devices capable of meeting all the requirements in their fields of application. It is certainly to be hoped that with these data available, full use will be made of them for specifications, and that the tentative standards will be followed except where there is conclusive evidence that they are not suitable."
"P. H. McAuley (Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): The desire of all concerned with the thermal rating of electrical machinery is to arrive at rational temperature limits and to specify simple and accurate methods of measurement. At the winter convention in 1939, a great deal of information on this subject was presented. Following this, AIEE Standard No. 1 has been revised tentatively to favor the resistance method for determining temperature rise and changing the limits for this method from 55 degrees centigrade to 60 degrees centigrade. In general, our experience confirms the recommendations of these earlier authors whose work resulted in this step, and. in particular those of the paper “Measurement of Temperature in General-Purpose Squirrel-Cage Induction Motors,” by C. P. Potter, published in AIEE Transactions, 1939, pages 468–72."
"P. L. Alger (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): It is very desirable to use a simple and flexible method of rating electrical apparatus, that will tell the user its output limitations in as few words or symbols as possible. All that the user really needs to know about the capacity of his apparatus is that it has adequate power for his maximum peak loads, and that it will have satisfactory life under his actual load conditions. Only two numbers should be needed to define these two output limits, corresponding to the momentary and the continuous ratings."
"L. W. Clark (The Detroit Edison Company, Detroit, Mich.): Mr. Montsinger proposes a rule of allowing 3 per cent increased load for each 10 per cent that the daily load factor falls below 100 per cent. We believe that this rule is conservative if load factor is used as a basis but, in our opinion, load factor alone is not a suitable measure upon which to base permissible loading. As pointed out by Mr. Montsinger, the permissible load may actually vary over a wide range, depending upon the shape of the load curves, and yet the load factor of these curves may have the same numerical value."
"H. W. Tenney (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): Messrs. Bellaschi and McAuley have rendered a very valuable service in tabulating the reference values for temperature, pressure, and humidity generally used in the various branches of electrical engineering. With these data presented so concisely, direct comparisons of the reference values used by national and international bodies become possible. The very important problem of co-ordination, particularly of such fundamentals as reference values, is receiving more and more attention from our engineering societies and standardizing bodies."
"Hubert H. Race (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The flat portion called region B (figure 1) of the conductance-time curve for insulating liquids has always puzzled me. The authors state that “region C represents the time during which the ions are swept out of the space between the electrodes and space charges built up in the spaces near the electrodes”. It seems to me that this statement must also apply to region B because certainly the current carriers are ions. Therefore, if we assume that on the average the charge per ion is constant, we must have conditions such that in region B the number of ions remains constant while in region C the number of ions is gradually decreased. From his work on nonaqueous solutions, Doctor R. M. Fuoss of our laboratory suggests the explanation that in the region B there is an equilibrium between associated and dissociated ions so that new ions are formed by dissociation as fast as they are swept out by the field. When the supply of undis-sociated ions is exhausted, however, further current flow decreases the ion concentration and the current decreases as in region C. The mathematical form of this time dependence is given by Doctor Fuoss as follows:"
"Wm. A. Del Mar (Habirshaw Division, Phelps Dodge Copper Products Corporation, Yonkers, N. Y.): Mr. Quinn's paper holds more than usual interest for us, since we have employed the cathode-ray oscilloscope for a number of years in electric cable research and quality control."
"George Keinath (consulting engineer, Larch-mont, N. Y.): I am very pleased to see that the General Electric Company is recommending the same procedure for testing high-voltage equipment as I did when I presented a paper on the same subject at the winter convention of the AIEE in January 1939. My experiments in this line started seven years ago, after some very bad experience with voltage transformers, which showed that the passing of the ordinary one-minute test is in no way an assurance of good performance in the field. First I used a photographic recorder for the active component of the capacity current, a vibrating mechanical rectifier, and a d-c galvanometer. The diagrams gave the active component first in function of the increasing voltage, during the proper test in function of time. A number of such diagrams have been published,1 but the recorder was too delicate for routine testing and so I decided to build an ink recorder."
"H. H. Race (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): I believe I am speaking for the subcommittee of the AIEE committee on research, which has followed Dr. Whitehead's work very closely, when I say that we are particularly pleased by the care with which this work has been performed and by the demonstrated reproducibility of the results. The number of similar specimens tested has been sufficiently large and the deviations in the life results have been sufficiently small to leave no doubt in our minds as to the validity of the trends which Dr. Whitehead has plotted in his figure 1."
"R. W. Atkinson (General Cable Corporation, Perth Amboy, N. J.): Rosch shows the results of load-cycle aging tests on two cables, in one of which the conductor is shielded by carbon-black tapes, the other cable being similar except without this shield. His data are in line with those obtained by other laboratories in indicating that the addition of shielding tapes improves cable performance. However, while others give credit for the improvement to the electrical shielding effect of the tapes, Rosch apparently attributes the improvement to the adsorptive effect of the carbon black in the tapes. As will be shown later, Rosch's own data do not bear out his conclusion."
"D. R. MacLeod (General Electric Company, Erie, Pa.): The high cost of wayside equipment is one reason why the potential economies of electric operation cannot be realized on some railroads. In this country we have established high standards for wayside construction since we are always striving toward the ideal of 100 per cent reliable operation."
"L. F. Kennedy (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The two ideas incorporated by Mr. Sonnemann; namely, the use of a variable-ratio characteristic in a differential relay and its dependence upon phase angle, certainly provides a means for overcoming the tendency toward incorrect operation due to the shortcomings of the current transformers. I do not feel, however, that we can fully accept his statement “that when the restraining current is large, …, the sensitivity of the relay should be reduced to allow for greater shortcomings in current-transformer performance.” A more accurate statement would seem to be one which conveyed the idea that a reduction in relay sensitivity may be an acceptable means of overcoming otherwise unavoidable current-transformer errors. While I feel that there is some real merit to be derived from a variable slope, I do believe that we should avoid giving the impression that it is a definite benefit under all conditions and that we are not interested in obtaining current transformers capable of reasonably good performance."
"W. K. Dickinson (General Electric Company, Lynn, Mass.): It may be of interest to point out that the formulas given in Mr. Sinks' paper are not of interest simply from a theoretical point of view, but they have been used for some time as a valuable tool in current-transformer design."
"J. H. Hagenguth (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): The paper is of considerable interest, as it presents a variety of instruments for measuring lightning currents and charges. Although considerable progress has been made in our knowledge of lightning currents, there still remains considerable work to be done before lightning is fully understood."
"H. T. Faus (General Electric Company, Lynn, Mass.): A fundamental reason for the difficulty of making accurate calculations of the performance of permanent magnets is that the effect of magnetic leakage is so difficult to estimate. In the case of magnets of irregular shape adjacent to iron, accurate calculations are almost impossible. The problem is analogous to that of an electrical circuit comprising metallic conductors immersed in salt water."
"L. V. Bewley (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): Professor Rüdenberg has presented an interesting analysis of traveling waves in windings, in which, by means of a Fourier integral, he represents the incident wave as an infinite series of sinusoidal components, and then determines from the differential equation in what fashion these sinusoidal waves can enter the winding. He finds that there is a critical (or cut-off) frequency beyond which an applied sinusoidal wave cannot penetrate the winding as a wave, but can nevertheless establish an exponential distribution which decays in place. This method of analysis, while little used by power engineers, is quite familiar to communication engineers in connection with filter theory (see, for example, chapter XI, volume II, of Guillemin's “Communication Networks”)."
"E. Weber (Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Brooklyn, N. Y.): The most important result of the very valuable contribution of the authors is their figure 4 which demonstrates the need for careful design of windings, particularly at higher frequencies. As shown in one example, an increase of copper thickness, although decreasing the d-c resistance, increases the a-c effective resistance considerably more than proportionally, so that instead of obtaining lower losses with more copper, one thus obtains very much higher losses with the attending problem of heat dissipation. With the data of this paper available, it is now possible to design strip copper windings for higher frequencies which give the lowest losses with a minimum of copper weight; that is, the most economical winding for each individual case."
"C. Concordia (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): In connection with the method of analysis given in this paper it may be of interest to recall a somewhat similar method presented a few years ago (“Overvoltages Caused by Unbalanced Short Circuits,” by Edith Clarke, C. Concordia, and C. N. Weygandt, AIEE Transactions, 1938, volume 57, pages 453–66; see appendix B). This previous method (see latter part of appendix B of the paper referred to) is applicable to the determination of harmonic voltages and currents of an unsymmetrical system containing any number of machines having unsymmetrical rotors, and has been used for the solution of a problem involving two such machines supplying a system with an unbalanced short circuit."
"S. B. Crary (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): As stated by the authors the derivation of the equations for electrical torque were simplified by making certain assumptions in order to avoid “cumbersome” expressions. As these assumptions necessarily limit somewhat the generality of the results, it may be in order to indicate a more complete solution for the case of simultaneous application of the three-phase voltages but which still can be written in compact form."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Speech synthesizing is here discussed in the terminology of carrier circuits. The speaker is pictured as a sort of radio broadcast transmitter with the message to be sent out originating in the studio of the talker's brain and manifesting itself in muscular wave motions in the vocal tract. Although these motions contain the message, they are inaudible because they occur at syllabic rates. An audible sound is needed to pass the message into the listener's ear. This is provided by the carrier in the form of a group of higher frequency waves in the audible range set up by oscillatory action at the vocal cords or elsewhere in the vocal tract. These carrier waves either in their generation or their transmission are modulated by the message waves to form the speech waves. As the speech waves contain the message information on an audible carrier they are adapted to broadcast reception by receiving sets in the form of listeners' ears. The message is then recovered by the listeners' minds."
"Quartz crystal filters used in modern carrier systems present new problems in manufacturing technique. In the assembly and testing of the filters and in the production of component crystals, coils and condensers, special factory facilities are required for accurate measurement of frequency and control of atmospheric conditions. The manufacture of quartz crystal plates in particular combines several fields of applied science, including crystallography, precision grinding, vacuum technique and high frequency electrical measurement. Inductance coils and fixed and variable condensers for use in crystal filters must consistently meet advanced requirements, especially in regard to stability. The assembly of these components into filters resembles the manufacture of radio receivers, differing mainly because of smaller quantity requirements. Testing equipment must permit rapid shop adjustment and test of the completed filters with laboratory precision."
"A hearing test for musical tones formed part of the Bell System exhibit at the New York and San Francisco Fairs, and the test records obtained have made possible a study of the hearing of a large group of the United States population. The variation of hearing acuity with age and sex is described in considerable detail. Hearing is also related in lesser degree to other factors, such as place of residence, economic status, and race, and these relations are discussed."
"OF the many factors which influence the quality of a television image, the one which is generally indicative of the value of the image and the cost of its transmission is the resolution, or sharpness. This resolution factor has always been reckoned in purely objective terms, such as the number of scanning lines, or the number of elemental areas in the image, or the width of the frequency band required for electrical transmission at a given rate. The subjective value of sharpness has not previously been considered. Some recent tests with a small group of observers, using out-of-focus motion pictures in a basic study of the visual requirements on images of limited resolution, have thrown new light on the evaluation of resolution and sharpness. The results appear of sufficient interest, particularly when interpreted in terms of television images, to warrant this presentation. We shall use the word sharpness in the sense of a subjective or psychological variable, with a strict technical significance in keeping with our experimental method, and we shall use the word resolution in the sense of an objective or physical variable."
"Interchannel interference caused by non-linearity of multichannel amplifier characteristics is analyzed in terms of second and third order sum and difference products of the bands of energy comprising the various channels. Methods of relating the resulting disturbance to discrete frequency measurements are described and means for arriving at modulation requirements on individual amplifiers thus established."
"TO the general public, the word radio means broadcasting, and a radio set means a radio receiver for listening thereto. The average man never has any direct contact with a radio transmitter, nor with the radio telegraph which preceded the radio telephone and so utilizes the all inclusive word “radio” for that one part of it which he sees, buys, and uses."
"Lodgepole Pine Poles — Full Length Treatment Under Pressure — Butt Treatment in Open Tanks.1 C. H. Amadon. Lodgepole pine (“Pinus contorta”) forms extensive forests in Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho and Western Montana. The timber has been used widely for mine props, railway ties and telephone and telegraph poles by the various industries in the general region in which it grows. Like most of the pines, lodgepole pine in its natural state is classed as a non-durable wood in contact with the soil, and where a relatively long service life is desired the timber has been treated with creosote or some other wood preservative."
"Millard W. Baldwin, Jr., E.E., Cornell, 1925; M.A., Columbia, 1928. Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. Mr. Baldwin's work has been in the field of telephotography and television."
"The problem considered herein is that of estimating, from measurements on short lengths of coaxial cable, the crosstalk to be expected in long lengths of the same cable. The method developed, which is particularly applicable to cases in which the effect of tertiary circuits on the crosstalk is large, is based on measurements of crosstalk in a short length, with the tertiaries first short-circuited and then open. The application of this method to the cable described in the companion paper by Messrs. Booth and Odarenko gave crosstalk values in good agreement with their experimental results."
"The available literature on crosstalk between coaxial conductors in contact makes it clear that the presence of any other conducting material in continuous or frequent contact with the coaxial outer conductors simply reduces the coupling per unit length without altering the law of crosstalk summation with length."
"Molybdenum-Permalloy is now produced in the form of compressed powdered cores for inductance coils. Its high permeability and low losses make possible improved coil quality, or decreased size without sacrificing coil performance. Its low hysteresis loss reduces modulation enough to permit application where large air core coils would otherwise be required."
"The accuracy of a heterodyne oscillator after the low frequency check is made is of the same order of magnitude as that of an ordinary type of oscillator in which circuit elements of the same stability are used. It depends on the constants of the variable frequency oscillator only. This accuracy can be improved by a ratio of 10 to 1 by adding another and higher check frequency. The temperature coefficient of the circuit elements can be kept down to less than 6 parts per million. Scale errors can be reduced to a value comparable with the oscillator accuracy by spreading the scale. A precision oscillator having a frequency range up to 150 kc. and an accuracy of ±25 cycles including a scale mechanism whereby a large scale spread is obtained on a direct reading scale is described."
"THE engineer who embarks upon the design of a feedback amplifier must be a creature of mixed emotions. On the one hand, he can rejoice in the improvements in the characteristics of the structure which feedback promises to secure him.1 On the other hand, he knows that unless he can finally adjust the phase and attenuation characteristics around the feedback loop so the amplifier will not spontaneously burst into uncontrollable singing, none of these advantages can actually be realized. The emotional situation is much like that of an impecunious young man who has impetuously invited the lady of his heart to see a play, unmindful, for the moment, of the limitations of the $2.65 in his pockets. The rapturous comments of the girl on the way to the theater would be very pleasant if they were not shadowed by his private speculation about the cost of the tickets."
"The ionosphere is a region in the very high atmosphere from which radio signals are reflected, a fact which is adequately explained by assuming that region to be populated with free electrons. In exploring the ionosphere, signals of a wide range of frequencies are successively sent upward, and the time elapsing before the return of the echo is measured. The delay of the echo mulitplied by 1/2c is called the virtual height of the ceiling for the signal. The data appear in the form of curves relating virtual height of ceiling to frequency of signal. These curves are peculiar in shape and vary remarkably with time of day, time of year and epoch of the solar cycle. By theory they can be translated into curves relating electron-density to true height above ground. The theory is approximative, but the results are accurate enough to be of value. The magnetic field of the earth affects the data remarkably, making it possible to test the theory and to evaluate the field-strength at great heights. The free electrons are supposed to be liberated from the air-molecules by ionizing agents, of which the chief but not the only one is ultra-violet light from the sun."
"Stereophonic Reproduction from Film.1 Harvey Fletcher. On April 9 and 10, 1940, demonstrations of the stereophonic reproduction of music and speech, described in this article, were given at Carnegie Hall, New York, N. Y. These demonstrations represented the latest development in a series of researches by Bell Telephone Laboratories, the first step of which was demonstrated in 1933 when a symphony concert, produced in Philadelphia, was transmitted over telephone wires to Washington, and there reproduced stereophonically and with enhancement before the National Academy of Sciences."
"H. W. Bode, A.B., Ohio State University, 1924; M.A., 1926; Ph.D., Columbia University, 1935. Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1926–. As Consultant in Network Theory, Dr. Bode is engaged in research studies of electrical networks and their applications to various transmission problems."
"IN the comparatively short period which has elapsed since its commercial introduction in a practical form, the voice-frequency carrier method of operating telegraph has risen to a position of preeminence and is becoming the outstanding means for providing telegraph facilities over main toll routes."
"DRYING equipment has recently been installed at the Kearny Works of the Western Electric Company whereby exchange area telephone cable is heated to a temperature of 270 degrees Fahrenheit by passing direct electric current through the copper wire conductors. Before discussing this installation in detail, however, it might be well first to outline the type of material handled and to review briefly the history of telephone cable drying methods and the reasons for the changes that have occurred."
"IN SEVERAL previous papers 1,2,3,4 the application of piezoelectric crystals to electric wave filters has been discussed. The underlying principles and some of the design procedures were given. These filters have received wide application in carrier telephone systems and radio systems both in the United States and abroad.5 It is the purpose of the present paper to discuss more completely all the standard types of filters with crystals, and methods for determining their constants and attenuation characteristics. In addition some of the newer results for simplifying such filters are given."
"BECAUSE of the rarity of solar eclipses, their short duration, and their occurrence usually at inconvenient places on the earth's surface, the problem of observing the solar corona in full sunlight is an important one for astronomers. It is also of considerable interest to those telephone engineers who are concerned with radio transmission over long distances. The major disturbances of such transmission have their origin in the sun and studies to date have indicated that a day-to-day knowledge of the activity of the corona might prove useful in predicting the transmission conditions."
"SOME fourteen or more wiped joints occur in every mile of lead-sheathed telephone cable, and in making these joints from one to two million pounds of solder are used per year. To join cables a lead sleeve of sufficient diameter to accommodate the bundle of spliced wires is slid in place at the junction, the ends of the sleeve are beaten to conform to the circumference of the cable, and an air-tight and mechanically strong joint formed at each end of the sleeve by molding a solidifying mass of solder into the desired shape. This last step is called the wiping operation."
"This article pertains to the most newly-discovered and most sensational mode of transmutation, in which the entry of a neutron into a massive atom-nucleus brings about an internal explosion in which the nucleus is “fissured” or divided into two fragments which share the total mass and charge between them in nearly equal proportions, (In all other modes of transmutation except those affecting the very lightest elements, the division is into fragments of very unequal mass and charge.) The conversion of rest-mass into kinetic energy, or (as is more commonly said) the release of energy, is unprecedented in scale. A multitude of radioactive bodies, many hitherto unknown, is formed; and there is spontaneous emission of fresh neutrons in great quantities, possibly sufficient to convert the process once initiated into a self-perpetuating one under realizable conditions."
"This paper is an outgrowth of studies of double faults to ground in three-phase power systems made by the author in connection with work of the Joint Subcommittee on Development and Research, Edison Electric Institute and Bell Telephone System. The paper provides a systematic solution, based on the method of symmetrical components, by means of which currents and voltages can be determined at times of fault involving any combination of phases at one or two locations on three-phase power systems."
"In the operation of short-wave radio telephone circuits selective fading is observed which is a result of the combination at the receiving antenna of waves which have arrived from the transmitter over paths of different lengths. The poor quality resulting from this fading may be mitigated by increasing the directivity of the receiving antenna in the vertical plane so as to favor the waves arriving at one angle to the exclusion of others. Friis and Feldman have described an experimental system designed to accomplish this end which they call a “Musa” receiving system. This system was found under certain transmission conditions to give an improvement in the grade of circuit which could be obtained. A commercial installation of this type has now been constructed for use on the single sideband circuits of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company from England. Two receivers have been provided for the operation of four radio telephone circuits."
"Thermionic Emission, Migration, and Evaporation of Barium on Tungsten.1 J. A. Becker and G. E. Moore. When barium is deposited on tungsten, the thermionic activity of the tungsten increases, comes to a maximum, and then decreases. It has frequently been found by emission measurements that this optimum corresponds to about a monomolecular layer. However, data obtained in this work show that some regions of the filament require more than five times as much barium as others for optimum emission."
"Karl K. Darrow, B.S., University of Chicago, 1911; University of Paris, 1911–12; University of Berlin, 1912; Ph.D., University of Chicago, 1917. Western Electric Company, 1917–25; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. Dr. Darrow has been engaged largely in writing on various fields of physics and the allied sciences."
"After an introductory review of the general nature of the theory of magnetic phenomena and the magnitudes of the atomic forces involved, there is a discussion of Ewing's theory, its results and limitations. The later theory of Weiss is then given briefly in order to fix the concept of the molecular field. In order to elucidate the nature of this field a digression is made to discuss the atomic structure of the ferromagnetic elements and elements having similar structures. With this as a basis the physical nature of the molecular field is discussed at some length. Its relation to the structure of domains, particularly the nature of the boundaries between domains, is brought out."
"The phenomena occurring at the closing and opening of contacts carrying weak currents have been investigated by means which include a study of the high-frequency transient voltages and currents. These influence the erosion in a complex manner which varies with contact materials, surface conditions and surrounding atmosphere. Three principal classes of effect have been distinguished. These are: (1) Disruptive sparkovers initiating a series of metallic arcs lasting less than a microsecond each; (2) A nitrogen gas glow discharge at about 300 volts, preceded by a brief group of disruptive sparkovers; (3) High field breakdowns due to cold point discharges which cause transient metallic closures of approaching contacts and similar transient reclosures of separating contacts."
"A PREVIOUS article1 gives an analysis of single sideband transmission. Since that article was written this subject, particularly in its application to picture transmission and television, has assumed considerable importance. For this reason it now seems desirable to amplify the previous theoretical treatment and to indicate certain experimental results which have been obtained in the meantime. The present article gives experimental evidence that, for a given bandwidth, single sideband transmission is distinctly superior to double sideband in picture transmission.2 It also gives a theoretical discussion which indicates that this is not inconsistent with the observed fact that oscillograms with single sideband transmission show considerable distortion."
"In this paper a review and amplification are given of the types and characteristics of existing low temperature coefficient crystals. The principal types are the coupled frequency crystals, the long bar crystals, and the AT, BT, CT and DT shear vibrating crystals. The theoretical frequencies for the A T and BT crystals agree well with those calculated from the Christofel formula for the velocity of propagation in an aeolotropic medium. For a finite plate other frequencies appear which are caused by couplings to the flexure and low-frequency shear modes. It is shown that harmonics of the high-frequency shear mode can be excited and will have low temperature coefficients. They can be made to stabilize the frequency of ultra-short-wave oscillators. The properties of the low-frequency CT and DT shear vibrating crystals are described. Overtone vibrations of the shear mode of approximately twice the frequency, having zero temperature coefficients, have been found and these have been labeled the ET and FT cuts."
"In recent years it has become increasingly difficult to correlate readings of volume level made by various groups because of differences in the characteristics and calibrations of the volume indicators used. This paper describes a joint development by the Columbia Broadcasting System, National Broadcasting Company, and Bell Telephone Laboratories which resulted in agreement upon, and standardization in the respective broadcast and Bell System plants, of: a new copper-oxide rectifier type of volume indicator having prescribed dynamic and electrical characteristics; a new reference level based on the calibration of the new instrument with a single frequency power of one milliwatt; and a new terminology, the readings being described in “vu.” It if hoped that other users of volume indicators will join in the adoption of these new standards."
"IN the development of electrical communication, metals and alloys have played a noteworthy part. To emphasize specifically the utilization of metallic materials the telephone handset serves as an admirable example. The assembly of intricate parts in this small piece of apparatus, shown sectionalized in Fig. 1, contains seventeen metallic elements, either alone or in combination as alloys."
"SILICOSIS develops rather quickly in rabbits exposed to air containing moderate concentrations of quartz particles finer than about 5 × 10–4 cm, but is completely prevented if aluminum powder is also present in the air to the extent of about one per cent by weight of the quartz powder. This protective action of aluminum powder was discovered at the McIntyre-Porcupine Mines, and has been studied experimentally by Denny, Robson and Irwin.1"
"Remaking Speech.1 Homer Dudley, Speech has been remade automatically from a buzzer-like tone and a hiss-like noise corresponding to the cord-tone and the breath-tone of normal speech. Control of pitch and spectrum obtained from a talker's speech are applied to make the synthetic speech copy the original speech sufficiently for good intelligibility although the currents used in such controls contain only low syllabic frequencies of the order of 10 cycles per second as contrasted with frequencies of 100 to 3000 cycles in the remade speech. The isolation of these speech-defining signals of pitch and spectrum makes it possible to reconstruct the speech to a wide variety of specifications. Striking demonstrations upon altering the pitch of the remade speech stress the contribution of the pitch to the emotional content of speech. Similarly the spectrum is shown to contribute most of the intelligibility to the speech."
"R. M. Bozorth, A.B., Reed College, 1917; U. S. Army, 1917–19; Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry, California Institute of Technology, 1922; Research Fellow in the Institute, 1922–23. Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1923–. As Research Physicist, Dr. Bozorth is engaged in research work in magnetics."
"That the problem of manipulating the response characteristics of sound reproducing systems in theaters has been significant is attested by the current practice of equipment companies of providing a variety of response adjustments as part of their standard equipments. However, prior to the establishment of this practice several thousand installations had been made. Continuation of the use of those systems presents a service organization with the problem of determining as expeditiously as possible the optimum response characteristic in specific cases. — The paper which follows describes the design of an adjustable equalizer system to permit selecting quickly, through dial switch adjustments at the listening point in the auditorium, any one of some twenty billion theoretically possible response characteristics. The paper describes the circuits employed and sets forth the reasons which underlie the choice of particular configurations. The accompanying illustrations show the several generalized types of component curves from which the overall insertion effect of any combination of settings may be predicted. For each of the types of sound systems most commonly encountered the method of insertion and the considerations governing the insertion of the adjustable equalizer are given. The paper concludes with a brief discussion of the types of problems whose solution has been facilitated through the availability and use of the adjustable equalizer."
"Agitation of the developing bath by means of compressed air or other gas is most effective when the upward stream of air bubbles is made to follow the surface of the film. When the air is released at the bottom of the tank, the induced stream usually passes up through one portion of the tank without reaching all parts of the film. The stream can be made to follow the surface of the film in a vertical rack type developing machine by the use of an air distributing gridwork which discharges the air at a large number of points distributed along the film strands from bottom to top of the rack."
"The object of this investigation was to ascertain the feasibility of using air as a means of agitating developing solutions by determining the effect of bubbling air through various commercially used developers on their photographic properties. — Unseasoned elon-hydroquinone developers of relatively high alkalinity (pH 10.0 to 10.5) showed a rapid decrease in activity after aeration for 1 1/2 hours while elon-hydroquinone-borax developers of low alkalinity (pH 8.4 to 8.8) showed increased activity (due to the liberation of alkali resulting from oxidation) which then remained constant for prolonged periods. — In general, the alkalinity of developers containing hydroquinone increased on aeration, while those containing only elon showed little change. — Practical tests with processing machines equipped with air agitation devices have shown that very constant developing conditions can be maintained when suitably replenished."
"Motion picture film and the characteristics of its support are discussed from the point of view of safety. A survey is given of the work carried out by the Eastman Kodak Company in conjunction with the motion picture industry, boards of underwriters, the National Fire Protection Association, and government bodies, on the control of the fire hazard in the production, distribution, and use of cellulose nitrate film for motion pictures. The characteristics and use of cellulose acetate film are considered in relation to the problem."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held, in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"The high-intensity, direct-current arc between small, copper-coated carbons operated in coaxial alignment without rotation with a reflector optical system has achieved a widespread and growing popularity over the past few years for theatrical projection of motion pictures. This type of light-source has now been extended to include larger carbons and higher currents. These larger carbons of this type with the proper optical system will give substantially higher light on the motion picture screen. — Fundamental facts about the arc behavior and the conditions necessary to obtain stable and steady operation with these larger carbons are described. The correlation of the luminous characteristics of the arc with the optical system is reviewed. The performance of a new arc with a suitable optical system is given from the standpoint of offering possibilities for projection. Carbon consumption rates, arc current and voltage, and light on the screen are discussed."
"Up to a recent date, background process work had been limited to the size of a picture that could be successfully illuminated through a single projecting machine. — The origination of a combination of projectors superimposing identical prints of the same background on the screen simultaneously compounded the light delivery of a single machine and therefore greatly expanded the scope of background process photography for natural color and black-and-white."
"The various functions of motion picture theater auditorium lighting are discussed. Particular analysis is made of the lighting which is used during the period in which the motion picture is projected. Past and present lighting practices in this respect are explained. The advantages and disadvantages of these practices, and a new type of lighting are discussed. It is proposed that the illumination levels of the interior surface of the auditorium be at greater levels than have been heretofore found to exist. A definite relationship between the screen brightness and that of the auditorium surfaces is indicated as desirable. Recent tendencies toward higher screen brightnesses have made a very low intensity lighting in the auditorium much more undesirable, and therefore have made it more important to arrive at a new solution for motion picture auditorium lighting. The realism of the projected picture can be considerably heightened by proper surface illumination. Controlled reflected light coming from the screen and re-reflected from the interior surfaces is discussed as a medium for lighting."
"Special slide-changing projectors were designed and built for the Kodachrome exhibit in the Eastman building at the New York World's Fair. Eleven machines are synchronized so that panoramic scenes one hundred and eighty-seven feet long may be shown. Indexing of the slides is controlled by notches in a sound-film so that the entire program is automatic. — The slides in each machine are arranged in two rows, and the machines each have two gates and two complete optical systems. All the slides in one row are rigidly bolted to a ring-gear forty-eight inches in diameter. For each new picture one of the two ring-gears is spring-indexed into a new position. An optical compensator geared to the ring-gear corrects for any inaccuracies in indexing, and the image is optically “dowelled” on the screen."
"In the Bell Telephone Laboratories have been developed electrical circuits for the artificial production of speech. One form of the device is itself voice-controlled, thus differing fundamentaly from the Voder of the World's Fair which is controlled by keys and pedals. It has been christened the “Vocoder” or “voice coder.” — Many startling effects are possible when the code is varied, for the Vocoder then recreates sounds quite different from those used by the person speaking. Cadences may become monotones, rising inflections may be turned to falling inflections, a vigorous voice may become a quaver, or a single voice may accompany itself at any desired musical interval—thus converting a solo into a duet, e:c. Also non-speech sounds may be coded into intelligible speech and instrumental music into vocal music."
"A definition of a graininess coefficient G is given by the distribution function $(2/G^{\\prime}\\sqrt{\\pi})\\int^{x}_{0}e^{-(x/G^{\\prime})^{2}}dx$ of relative transparency fluctuations $(\\Delta T/T_{m}=x)$ in emulsions. In practical units $G=1000G^{\\prime}$. — An instrument is described which measures the graininess of an emulsion sample directly in G. It consists of the graininess photometer which produces a microphoto-metric record in terms of x and an integrator which analyzes this record photoelectrically in terms of the probability function and indicates G. There are no standards involved in the instruments except for the geometrically defined area which scans the sample and which is simply related to G. — The G values obtained for different emulsions are described for constant density as well as the variation of G with the density. The transformation of G into G8, the graininess effective in sound reproduction, is given as $G_{8}=G\\cdot 10^{-D} $; furthermore, the corrections necessary for G to obtain visual graininess impressions, are discussed. The latter varies with the illumination on account of deviations from Fechner's law for certain ranges of brightness. Their visual effects are predictable from G. — The effect of scattering of the incident light within the emulsion upon the measured graininess is discussed. — The observed graininess density functions are compared with those of other authors and agreement and deviations are found where they are to be expected. — The relation between graininess and grain size is discussed with the conclusion that a priori no relation exists between the two qualities. — The grain distribution is found to follow, in many cases, very closely the probability function."
"(These regulations are published herein for information and ready reference by the readers of the Journal. Publication in the Journal is therefore in no way related to approval or disapproval of these regulations by the Society, although much of the material relating to motion picture projection rooms has been based upon recommendations made by the Sub-Committee on Fire Hazards of the SMPE Projection Practice Committee, published in the November, 1938, issue of the Journal. — The following regulations are reprinted from NBFU Pamphlet No. 40, July 1, 1939, copies of which may be obtained from the National Board of Fire Underwriters, New York, N. Y.)"
"The splicer to be described was developed for use on high-speed, sprocketless, 35-mm developing machines. Above all else, such a splice must be dependable; that is, it must not catch on guards or blow-offs, and must not pull apart in spite of passing around hundreds of small pulleys. Metallic fastening devices localize the stresses which are apt to start tears. By using a special adhesive tape to make the splice, the stress is distributed over the full width of the film. To prevent the tape from being soaked loose in the developing solutions, its “linen” base is waterproofed, and a hole is punched through the center of the film at each edge of the tape. The tape thus sticks to itself through these holes, preventing the edge of the tape from lifting when the emulsion swells. The ends of the film to be spliced are placed end-to-end with a space of 1/16 inch between, and the tape is passed tightly around both sides, overlapped in the center of the film, and pressed down firmly. The splice will withstand a pull of 50 pounds, is smooth, and thus will not catch in the machine, Being quite thin, it will pass through blow-offs, and as many as forty splices have been taken up in a 2000-ft, roll without damaging the film or making the roll badly out of round."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may b6 obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library. New York. N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held, in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"A brief account of the work of the Committee during the past year, in which is traced the evolution of the SMPE Projection Room plans and their general adoption by the industry. Work is being initiated by the Sub-Committee on Theater Structures in a study of the disparity that exists among various state and municipal motion picture regulations. The subject of heating projection rooms is also reported upon by the Sub-Committee on Fire Hazards. Work has been begun by the Sub-Committee on the Power Survey in determining the average or representative operating conditions, with particular respect to the power consumed, in theaters of various seating capacities and equipped with various types of projection apparatus."
"The highly diversified activities required for the production of a motion picture find their effective culmination in the work of the theater projectionist. The unusually concentrated value embodied in the reels of film corresponding to a feature picture can be brought to the theater audience and made the basis for commercial returns only through the activities of the projectionist. — Nevertheless the public is little aware of what goes on in the projection room. — The projectionist is in part compensated by the likely stability of his activities. His present position in the theater is important. Future developments in the motion picture field, such as three-dimensional sound, wider use of color, and the like, will make his work even more important. The possible inclusion of television projection in theater programs will require his mastery of the new field which is sufficiently similar to his present activities in its broad outline to enable its handling by the theater projectionist."
"A brief account of the work of the State of Connecticut with respect to the abatement of fire and other hazards incident to the presentation of motion pictures. A model projection room, the design of which has been based upon the experience of the State of Connecticut in the motion picture field, is described and illustrated."
"It is the duty of the projectionist to see that all projection equipment is kept in condition to give excellent service dependably and efficiently. 1t is impossible to accomplish these results by depending upon memory alone. The projectionist must establish and keep written records of all necessary maintenance data. He must follow a written schedule in making inspections and in doing maintenance work. He must establish a reliable system for checking and ordering supplies and spare parts at regular intervals. — The projectionist should do as much of actual service work as his knowledge, ability, tools, and available test equipment will permit. At least nine-tenths of trouble shooting should be done before any trouble exists. He should obtain detailed drawings of internal and installation wiring of all electrical equipment, besides identifying the points at which tests may be made. He should prepare a written outline of all tests that could be made if various troubles existed. Then he should actually make all possible tests in advance, wherever possible, without causing damage, by deliberately creating the trouble and then correcting it. He should immediately record the exact results of each test in the written outline. In this way, simple tests may serve as well as or better than elaborate ones. — The professional service engineer with special test equipment is a necessity to the finer and more difficult parts of modern servicing, but the projectionist who makes the best of what resources he has can also do a very valuable part of the job."
"The high importance of expert work in theater projection rooms is stressed. Pride in performance is essential to excellence, and if the status of projection were elevated to a higher plane improvements would result in both picture and sound presentation. The author offers a suggestion concerning the contacts of the Society with the projectionists' organizations."
"Sixteen-mm sound motion pictures are potentially one of the most effective means through which industry can develop a broad, cost-cutting communication system within the organization itself. — Many latent applications for internal films exist; the cases in business where the improved transfer of ideas afforded by films can be most profitable are almost unlimited. Several specific instances are cited. — Sixteen-mm equipment is simple. easy to operate, reliable, and economical. With it,. a member of the industrial organization who knows his company's products, policies. and structure can readily produce films that are, in every respect, profitable internal communications media."
"A 200-foot reel and tray developing machine with multiple trays, motor driven reels, and manual reel transfer, is described. Fresh processing solution is used with every reel, the amount depending upon the footage of the reel. — Difficulties encountered in development and construction are described, and the advantages evident in practice are given as one-man operation; solution economy; clean, energetic development, with linear exposure-density relation; uniformity of results with any quantity of film from 1 to 200 feet; no undue aerial or chemical fog; cleanliness; and flexibility in use or in extension to future developments."
"Some warbled frequency films. intended as signal sources for acoustical response measurements, appear to have been made and used without full realization of the true nature of the warbled signal and the manner in which such a signal is affected by a non-linear transmission system. It is pointed out that the warbled signal is a frequency-modulated signal; hence the signal may be represented by a carrier frequency and a series of side-frequencies, all of which are steady and discrete. It is pointed out, and substantiated experimentally, that the signal must be regarded in this light when considering the effect on it of a non-linear transmission system. The frequency structure of one “warble film” in use is calculated and shown graphically. Fundamental requirements for a suitable warbled frequency film having sinusoidal modulation ate discussed and values for modulation rate and for modulation depth are recommended. The side-frequency array provided by the recommended modulation constants is shown in graph form. Expressions are derived giving the frequency relationship and relative amplitudes of the side frequencies resulting from the non-sinusoidal frequency modulation which contains two components of modulation rate, one component having an associated phase constant. The side-frequency structures corresponding to some assumed combinations of two rates are calculated and illustrated. Certain assumptions are made for distortion or departure from sinusoid of a modulating frequency and the effects on the side-frequency structure are shown. Prom the latter calculation recommendations are derived for tolerances of departure from sinusoidal modulation for a warbled frequency film."
"The motion picture is a product of science. There is ample historical material available for those who wish to convince themselves of this fact, but a brief review is given of the work of Muybridge and Marey in order to clarify the cause of their inventions. The ensuing discussion centers around the question, “Has science maintained its interest in the motion Picture and has it utilized its advantages to its full extent?” — In this paper the word “science” is taken broadly and includes research, dissemination of knowledge, and industrial application. Motion Picture's application to science is divided into two distinct categories and are discussed in detail: — (1) The motion Picture as an aid to scientific research; (2) The motion Picture as a medium for the dissemination of knowledge. — The paper concludes with descriptions and demonstrations of interesting material from the files of the Rolab Photo-Science Laboratories. Also an inside view is given of production activities of an unusual character."
"problems confronting the scientist who inaugurates the unique task of preserving in film for the people of the 80th century a complete picture of our life in America today; the problem of the life of film. and of its relationship to ancient papyrus that has come down to us over sixty centuries; the method of preserving it; the microfilming and preparation of the records; the making of a duplicate film on metal; and the entire scope of the project is set forth and discussed."
"The activities of various West Coast studios and laboratories in the adaptation of fine-grain films for variable-density recording are summarized. A set of requirements for a suitable variable density negative and print emulsions have been formulated and are included in the paper."
"Many types of picture scenes are improved in quality when some of the new fine-grain films are used as a printing stock. More detail on the screen and less image “boiling” is observed due to the greater resolution of the fine-grain films. When such films are used for variable-density sound recording, a material increase in volume range is obtained which permits greater latitude in the original and dubbing recording operations. The sound quality is improved due to the reduction in noise and modulated noise effects which partially mask the signal when the coarser-grained positive types of emulsions are used. Data are presented on some of the problems encountered in the use of fine-grain films for dubbing prints, release negative, and release prints."
"Release print laboratories require a method of quickly making photographic duplicate negatives to replace damaged original negative sections. — The paper shows the development of a method of making dupes which have the same optimal print densities as the original negatives. A selection of film stocks is first made using the ratio of transmission between black area and fogs as a “yardstick.” Processing data are shown in a family of curves, and the “best operating point” for the entire process has been determined. Fog considerations have been carried throughout the process. — An outline of commercial practice is given together with the necessary routine tests."
"Release print laboratories need some sort of device to check quickly sound-track center-line positions on release prints. No satisfactory device was available, so a measuring machine was developed that indicates track position directly on a dial indicator."
"In view of its bearing on the design of ground-noise-reduction systems, a study was undertaken to determine how sudden or rapid are the increases in amplitude of the speech sounds that must be recorded in dialog. A large number of oscillograms were taken, a number of which are reproduced herewith. — The most important observation is that the human voice can start several of the vowel sounds in such a way that the first wave is from 40 to 80 per cent of the final amplitude, or, in other words, with a suddenness comparable to that of keying in an oscillator. However, this is rare, being for all practical purposes confined to a few of the more open vowel sounds, when not preceded by any consonant, and true only of certain individuals, depending on the manner of releasing the breath. Progressive build-up at rates which would carry the modulation from zero to 100 per cent in 0.05 second are frequent, while the great majority of syllables start more gradually than this."
"The contention that a linear recording and reproducing system represents the ideal, and that sound handled by such a system will be exactly represented, is not borne out by experience. Systems have been built which meet this requirement within limits that are not detectable by the ear and yet these systems do not reproduce sound as it actually is produced. In many cases a definite non-linear response curve is provided to compensate for some factor that is not covered by the above contention. It is the author's thesis that this discrepancy is due to the ear sensitivity to frequencies as a function of loudness. — Using the ear-sensitivity curves presented by Fletcher and Munson of the Bell Telephone Laboratories (which have been verified by other observers) it is shown how the ear introduces frequency distortion to a linear system when the sound is reproduced at a level other than the level at which it is produced. It is shown how a sound reproduced above the incident sound-level introduces excessive low frequencies. The case for a sound reproduced at a lower level is also examined and the conclusion is drawn that this case accentuates the high frequencies. — It is further shown that the possibility of correcting for the limited volume range of all sound systems may lie in the type of amplifier response curve. — A description is given of three methods used to achieve the desired amplifier characteristics: (1) a mechanical method, (2) a linear-non-linear system, and (3) a selective by-pass system. Circuits are given and the important operating points of each are discussed. The objections to each system are also given. — Further, a brief summary, with diagrams, describes the various set-ups used to record with these amplifiers. This covers work for radio, disk record, and sound-film."
"In all motion picture photography and projection, lenses of high relative aperture must be used. However, on account of the small size of the amateur frame, the focal length is short, and the linear aperture of the lens is therefore small, resulting in considerable depth of field. Thus in cine work, great lens speed is not automatically associated with small depth, as is the case in ordinary photography. — Moreover, as the entire motion picture frame must be seen by the eye at a glance, the angular field covered must be much smaller than in still pictures which may be examined critically and deliberately. This fact is of the greatest assistance to the lens designer because high aperture and field are inevitably somewhat incompatible, and types of lens construction which favor aperture generally cover a relatively small field. — Perspective considerations usually require a projection lens covering only about half the angular field covered by the taking lens, which fact enables projection lenses of very high relative aperture to be made. Some of the types of construction commonly used in amateur cine lenses are described."
"Proposals have been received from the ISA Secretariat for International Standardization of raw-film cores; 16-mm sound-film; projection reels; projection reel boxes; 8-mm film dimensions; and definition and marking of safety film. — Most of these proposals differ from the SMPE standards only in tolerance. Some of the tolerances appear to be unimportant and some important. The European practice for projection reels differs so widely from the American practice that it is deemed impossible to come to an international agreement. Standardization of 16-mm projection reel boxes appears to be outside the range of useful standardization. — The international standard definition of safety film has been cleared up in all points except the question of nitrogen content. — The question of sound-track dimensions for 35-mm and 16-mm film was clarified, to a considerable extent, at the Hollywood meeting of the Committee but no definite conclusions have yet been reached. — No satisfactory standard for 16-mm sound-film sprockets has yet been attained."
"An indication is given of the quantity of illumination used on interior motion picture sets together with the technic of “key-lighting.” Key-lighting levels in common use are stated and some of the variables in light balance are mentioned."
"Working toward closer coördination between the creative and technical groups in the making of motion pictures the author points out the objective and factors essential to good motion picture entertainment. Subsequently to the analysis of the general problem, examples are given illustrating the types of problems where technical knowledge can assist in obtaining a better dramatic result."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held, in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture. Washington, D. C."
"The first television pick-up of the Pasadena Rose Tournament Parade was made on New Year's Day, 1940. This was accomplished with the “suitcase” type portable television equipment and beam transmitter W6XDU of the Don Lee Broadcasting System. — Two television cameras were used to give long-shot and close-up views of the floats, the cameras being arranged to give instantaneous switching of scene. The distance from Pasadena to the Don Lee Building, site of the home transmitter W6XAO, is nine miles and the line of sight was interrupted by two hills and buildings. Since the portable transmitter operates on a wavelength of less than one meter, much effort was therefore directed toward erecting high and efficient antennas at the transmitter and receiver. — Diathermy machines, as used by the medical profession, were found to cause interference even on the beam transmitter frequency of 324 megacycles, indicating the need for proper shielding of such devices. — The sound portion of the broadcast was sent over the nationwide Mutual Network. Camera work and aural description were adequately synchronized. Although rain fell during the parade and the morning was darkly overcast, written statements of reception from W6XAO lookers up to 15 miles away reported clear images, enabling them to read the names on the floats and discern other items of detail."
"Present television standards specify certain factors which determine the appearance of a television picture only to a limited extent. Other factors, however, such as contrast, gradation, brilliance, and the shape of the scanning spot, are fully as important. — A photographic method for producing artificial television pictures which permits varying several of these factors has been developed. Pictures are shown which were obtained by this method and which approach ideal quality within a given set of standards."
"Line and frame scanning frequencies in an all-electronic television system need not be frozen to a standard giving limited definition performance if the synchronizing system is arranged so as to allow flexible operation. Automatic operation of receiver synchronizing circuits at variable line and frame frequencies is made possible with the aid of a new type of synchronizing wave-form. Synchronizing standards which permit both flexible and automatic operations are discussed. Transmitter synchronizing apparatus for flexible synchronizing standards, receiver circuits for both non-automatic and automatic synchronizing operation are also discussed, and a “transition” type receiver for operation on both old and new types of synchronizing signals is briefly described."
"The remote control lighting system now in use in the television studios of the National Broadcasting Company presents a completely new approach to the studio lighting problem. — A new series of overhead units, mounting inside-silvered incandescent lamps, comprises the foundation lighting equipment which can be controlled in rotation, tilt, and elevation from an operating platform. — Flexibility has been incorporated to allow the lighting engineer to arrange the lighting to his satisfaction and to change the lighting completely without interrupting the program. — The units themselves have been designed around the specific requirements of the television cameras, and show under test a satisfactory efficiency both as to power consumption and dissipation of heat. The weight, of the order of 13 pounds per kilowatt, coupled with the extreme flexibility incorporated into the mechanical arrangement, appears to have solved the physical problem of installation. — Lighting personnel requirements are substantially reduced, and with the major part of the installation now attached to the overhead gridiron, additional valuable floor space has been given over to the cameras. — Illumination levels as high as 2400 foot-candles can be created on an average set, but due to general improvement of both camera tube and circuits, it is seldom necessary to exceed 800 foot-candles in foundation light. — Combining flexibility with economy of operation it appears that this new lighting system has solved many of the problems of illumination in a television studio."
"Characteristics of developing agents have been unified in a mathematical expression. The use of the analysis of developer behavior afforded by this expression has been helpful in providing a guide toward improving a developer with respect to any given characteristic."
"A description of the new laboratory erected by Warner Bros. at Burbank, Calif., in 1938. No general release work is required of this laboratory, and the generous space provided is devoted exclusively to the developing and printing of the dailies, storage and handling of the negative, and the latest in air-conditioning and dust-removing equipment. Advantage has been taken of the recent developments in rust-resisting and acid-proof metals, especially in the construction of the developing machine tanks. The description includes the method of operation through the dailies, negative cutting, printing, chemical mixing, silver recovery, and other essential processes."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C."
"Today's commercial film is designed to accomplish a specific purpose and is therefore particularly directed to a specific audience. Prior to the introduction of the 16-mm sound projector, commercial sound-films could for the most part be shown only to theatrical entertainment audiences. — The immediate acceptance and rapid growth in use of 16-mm sound projection equipment for the first time made it possible for the commercial film producer to select the audience most useful to him. — At first practically all commercial 16-mm sound-films were made on 35-mm equipment and subsequently optically reduced to obtain 16-mm prints. It soon became obvious that it would be desirable to produce these films in the same medium in which they were to be shown. Among the advantages to be gained by such procedure were the absence of fire risk and consequent freedom from legal restrictions, the compactness and portability of equipment, lower raw-stock and print costs, and greater flexibility."
"There are so many reasons why 16-mm film can and should be used that the industrial and educational user is using more and more of it. The production of 16-mm sound pictures by the direct method has been making progress. Today there are a number of companies using direct black-and-white and color sound productions in the 16-mm size. Many who are trying to use the method do not understand the proper technic or do not use the best commercial facilities available, which make the process slow in being generally accepted. — Certain advantages and economies are effected by using the direct 16-mm production method which make it desirable for the non-user of sound-films to use this medium for the first time, and for others to use the film more effectively. Complete commercial 16-mm production and laboratory facilities are now available that equal those of the best 35-mm industrial producers. The problem of making wipes, fades, dissolves, and other tricks in the laboratory has been solved for direct 16-mm production. Re-recording facilities for blending sound from several sources are available, making it possible to achieve truly professional results by the direct method. A few examples of direct 16-mm productions are given."
"A new high-intensity carbon trim has been developed for the projection of 16-mm film. The characteristics, operating data, and performance of this “Pearlex” trim are described. The light from the original combination of carbons has been modified to give a color quality suitable for 16-mm color-film which has been processed for projection with incandescent lamps. Measurements show that this new combination, in lamps specifically developed for it, provides approximately three times as much light as was hitherto available for 16-mm projection, thus greatly improving the projection of 16-mm film to large audiences."
"The importance of thorough and continuous supervision of projection and sound equipments in the theaters, some of the problems connected therewith in the construction and the maintenance of the theaters; a brief outline of a few of the many details that must be examined and precautions that must be observed in order that the motion picture entertainment may be presented under the most nearly perfect conditions, are described by a Projection Supervisor for a theater chain. Emphasis is placed upon the benefits to be derived through the close coöperation between the supervisor and the projection personnel of the individual theaters and several measures for accomplishing this result are cited."
"Auditorium viewing conditions and screen considerations should justly be the concern of the projectionist. The following factors beyond the confines of the projection room should be of interest to him: (a) screen size, (b) screen lighting, (c) screen border, masking, and immediate surroundings, (d) position of screen. — The paper discusses these items, giving recommendations that should permit the projection of high-quality motion pictures."
"The dangers inherent to the projection of nitrocellulose film are so obvious, and the accidents, when they occur, are so spectacular that practically no attention is given to other hazards in the projection room This is to be expected in an industry where practically no knowledge concerning the equipment and its operation ever appears to the outside world. Only the joint coöperation of the manufacturer of equipment, the sound supervisor, the theater manager, the projectionists, and intelligent public safety officials can make the profession of projecting motion pictures a safe one. Some of the observations of the author, who is closely associated with safety officials in the State of Ohio, are given in the paper."
"The defects in projection caused by oil and dirt on the film are discussed at considerable length, with respect to the appearance of the screen images of the following groups of prints: (1) toned print; (2) light or high-key prints; (3) color-film; (4) very dark prints. The seriousness of the defects caused by oil in the four groups is in this order. — The causes of oil on film are discussed in considerable detail, and suggestions are made for alleviating this situation."
"Some portions of the data necessary to good projection room records may be kept to the best advantage on blank forms. Examples are shown of such blanks adapted to (1) an inventory of projection room supplies and spare parts, (2) data on vacuum tubes, (3) exciter lamps, (4) film inspection, and (5) a cue sheet. Noteworthy features are discussed, and suggestions given for adapting these forms to individual projection rooms. Projectionists will find it easier to keep good records on appropriate forms than it is to gel by without them."
"On April 9 and 10, 1940, demonstrations of the stereophonic reproduction of music and speech, described in the accompanying article, were given at Carnegie Hall, New York, N. Y. This represented the latest development in a series of researches by Bell Telephone Laboratories, the first step of which was demonstrated in 1933 when a symphony concert, produced in Philadelphia, was transmitted over telephone wires to Washington, and there reproduced stereophonically and with enhancement before the National Academy of Sciences. — For the present demonstration, original recordings of orchestra, choir, and drama were made at Philadelphia and Salt Lake City; and at a later audition the artist or director was able to vary the recorded volume and to change the tonal color of the music to suit his taste. At will, he could soften it to the faintest pianissimo or amplify it to a volume ten times that of any orchestra without altering its tone quality, or he might augment or reduce the high or low pitches independently. The music or drama so enhanced is then re-recorded on film, with the result that upon reproduction, a musical interpretation is possible that would be beyond the power of an original orchestra, speaker, or singer to produce."
"The effect of using ultraviolet filters on the gamma of negative and positive development is discussed. The effect of ultraviolet light on image quality is discussed and a mathematical analysis is given explaining the existence of spurious side images found in white-light recording on clear-base variable-density negatives. Low-end frequency rise, attributed to existence of these side images, is eliminated by recording with ultraviolet. Reduction in wave-shape distortion as well as improvement in high-frequency response is attributed more to use of ultraviolet in printing than in recording. Practically no gain in signal-to-noise ratio is found by using ultraviolet in either recording or printing."
"Treadmills are a definite necessity to the making of motion pictures for the purpose of obtaining intimate scenes of animated objects or persons working before moving backgrounds. The evolution of this type of equipment dales back to the very beginning of the industry. Due to the fact that noise was of no consequence, these earlier machines were simply and crudely constructed. The type generally used employed the ordinary conveyor-chain principle, utilizing web belts running over series of rollers. Other developments include the revolving disk type, not entirely desirable due to the variation of surface speed in relation to the distance from the center of the circle; the gravity unit motivated by the persons or animals walking or running on them, etc., etc. Inasmuch as these were generally operated in front of sky backings or moving panoramas, speed ranges obtainable by gear boxes or belt pulley or chain sprocket changes were adequate. With the advent of sound and a more general use of the transparency or process background the need of smoother, more flexible, silent mills was recognized. The problem was carefully considered by the engineering department of Paramount Pictures, Inc., and the unit recently developed by them embodies all the previously mentioned requisites and to date has operated satisfactorily under the most trying conditions. — Construction details, speeds, degrees of silence, and other factors are covered in the paper."
"It seems to me that we are holding our meeting at a rather unusual and spectacular time in the history of the motion picture industry. Just at this moment a lot of the preparation for television is about to come to fruition. Sets for home service are on sale. There has been some criticism about the method of promoting the sale of sets, but I imagine that will be straightened out satisfactorily to all concerned before long."
"Acoustical science can now be applied to better advantage than ever before in the planning of modern motion picture theaters. A broader understanding of the purposes and principles of acoustical design and treatment is needed, however, to make this application universal. The Society is in a position to do much toward fulfilling this need. — Greater attention should be given to the design and development of the basic theater structure. The shaping of surfaces for the control of sound reflections is effective and can be kept within a desirable architectural limit. Furthermore, such shaping can be made to function successfully if the basic design is developed to control reverberation. — The all too prevalent idea that “the more acoustical material used, the better the results” should be discouraged. Acoustical materials can be used more efficiently if they are distributed asymmetrically with due regard to the geometry of the reflecting surfaces. In general, they should not be concentrated in large compact areas on single surfaces. This principle of treatment and its effect upon the acoustical characteristics of theaters is discussed. — Instrumental measurements of the effect of surface parallelism upon the frequency reverberation characteristic of a rectangular room are shown. The results are of particular interest with respect to the acoustical treatment of preview rooms."
"This paper deals with the effect of the negative sound-track upon the ground noise of the print. Data are presented showing the influence of negative density and negative gamma on print ground noise for fine-, medium-, and coarse-grain negative emulsions."
"A laboratory model of a magnetic-drive film-phonograph was modified so that speed fluctuations of large and measurable magnitude and of frequencies ranging from 1/2 to 7 cycles could be introduced either into the sprocket rotation or the magnet rotation. The resulting speed variations at the drum were determined by means of a “wowmeter.” The large ratios of flutter reduction indicated by these measurements show in part why the magnetic drive gives unsurpassed film motion."
"A review of dimensional standards fails to indicate any attempt in the past to standardize sound-track bloops. While it is true that there is relatively little difficulty due to bloops at the present time, this condition appears to be due to the fact that each producing organization has more or less independently arrived at some rule-of-thumb solution to its particular problem rather than a result of any directed effort on the part of the industry as a whole. — The criteria are almost entirely empirical; the common tests are (1) peak volume indicator and (2) listening. This has resulted in a wide variety of bloops in use; a reduction in the number of sizes and types seems desirable in the interest of simplification. For single-track negative bloop punches this is especially important. — The lengths of the bloop punches vary from 0.330 to 0.965 inch. A length of 0.500 inch may be considered to represent “average” practice. There is almost complete agreement on the following characteristics of bloop punches; (1) The punch should be sharp. (2) In the case of the triangle or trapezium types, there should be rounded corners at the base of the triangle. — There is no similar agreement in the use of bloops for sound positives; in the case of release prints, this matter is not especially pressing since release negatives are usually re-recorded and have few, if any, splices."
"The apparent plate-resistance of vacuum-tubes employed in inverse feedback amplifier stages is shown to be a function of the degree of feedback employed. Equations for predicting the optimum value of amplifier load impedance for maximum undistorted power output are derived, and the necessity for properly building out the amplifier load circuit is demonstrated. A basic circuit, employing a combination of two feedback elements is indicated, which permits securing the maximum undistorted power output from an amplifier stage while maintaining proper impedance relationships between amplifier and load circuits without the use of building-out resistors."
"A densitometer employing an integrating sphere associated with a stable high-gain amplifier is described. Densities up to 3.0 are read directly on a multiple-scale logarithmic meter. Visual diffuse operation is attained by simulating average eye characteristic by inserting appropriate filters in optical path."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held, in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"This report of the Progress Committee covers the year 1939. The advances in the cinematographic art are classified as follows: (I) Cinematography: (A) Professional, (B) Substandard; (II) Sound Recording; (III) Sound and Picture Reproduction; (IV) Television; (V) Publications and New Books."
"Procedures for the qualitative and quantitative determination of the usual constituents of photographic developers and fixing baths are given. Volumetric methods are employed in general. — The accuracy of the procedures and the significance of analytical findings are discussed in relation to the functions of the various constituents of developers and fixing baths, both when fresh and after use. Suggestions are given as to the manner of application of analytical tests to typical cases of troubles arising from defective processing baths. — The selection of reagents, the use of special procedures and equipment, and the computation of results are treated in detail."
"The first part of the paper is devoted to conveying basic requirements as well as recent developments in the design of motion picture theaters with balconies to provide satisfactory conditions for all the basic considerations of proper motion picture presentation. — The second part provides similar information pertaining to theaters with balconies Separate sections arc devoted to the dimensha1 and constructional features of balcony depth, soffit, and height; of the theater ceiling, sidewalls, and rear wall; and of the space above the balcony."
"Spot news, athletic events, parades, etc., form an important source of television program material. In the spring of 1938 field experiments were started in New York City with mobile television pick-up equipment. Two telemobile units were used each of which was about the size and shape of a twenty-five passenger bus and weighed ten tons. The limitations of these telemobile units are discussed. Light-weight television pick-up equipment has recently been developed. The new equipment includes a small Iconoscope camera, camera auxiliary, camera control and synchronizing generator units, and an ultra-high-frequency relay transmitter and receiver. Most of the units are about the size of a large suitcase and weigh between 40 and 70 pounds. Each of the units is described and some of the practical applications of the equipment are indicated."
"A new negative carbon is described which makes possible the extension to low current and short arc length of the high-intensity direct-current carbon arc with copper-coated non-rotating electrodes. Data are given which show that this new negative carbon, known as the “Orotip” C carbon, has made feasible combinations of carbons and burning conditions which bring about significant improvements in the efficiency of production of light from the standpoint of carbon utilization and power consumption. This new negative carbon has practically eliminated carbide tipping and its undesirable consequences. Results are given which show that most of the theaters now using low-intensity carbon arcs have an inadequate level of screen brightness. It is shown that the new combinations made possible by the “Orotip” C negative carbon offer a remedy for this, while at the same time giving a better color quality and maintaining a total operating cost no higher, or only slightly higher, than for the low-intensity combination."
"Thanks to intensified study of color by scientists of the National Bureau of Standards, of the Agricultural Marketing Service of the U. S. Department of Agriculture, of the Committees of the American Association of Railways, glass manufacturers, dye manufacturers, paint and ink manufacturers, the American Pharmaceutical Association, and photographic manufacturers and the stimulation of the motion picture industry, the theories of color have been put in shape and tied together with extensive data on the color vision of many observers so that a workable engineering evaluation of colors, a scientific system of naming them, and practical means of producing them to exact specification is now available and is ripe for presentation not only to learned societies but to the general public. — Colored lights are subject to spectrophotometric measurement and by means of the ICI (International Commission on Illumination) data can be interpreted in terms of luminosity and the x and y coórdinates (or map) defining chromaticity. — In these terms are being defined the color limits for railway signal colors, also all standard Atlases of Color such as the Maertz & Paul Dictionary of Color, the Munsell Book of Color, and, it is hoped, the next standard set of colors of the Color Card Association of the U. S. used by all manufacturers of clothing and other things in which standardization of manufacture in spite of rapid changing styles is an economic necessity. — The next edition of the Pharmacopoeia and of the National Formulary, sponsored by the American Pharmaceutical Association, will use the system of color names developed and recommended by the Inter-Society Color Council in coöperation with the National Bureau of Standards to describe the normal appearance of all drugs and chemicals. A shorthand method of describing the spectrophotometric analysis of color filters for theater spot and floodlights in the form of a seven digit number has been devised for commercial specification of this material. — The Inter-Society Color Council is made up of 74 delegates appointed by 11 member societies, and 67 individual members. It functions as a joint committee on color of the member societies favored with advice of the individual members. The Council issues News Letters in mimeograph form to its members. They contain information of progress in color work, notices of important color publications, the activities of the Color Council and notices of its planned meetings. The Council sponsors meetings with the member societies on the subject of color. Such joint meetings have been held with the Optical Society of America, the Technical Association of the Pulp & Paper Industry (T. A. P. P. I.), and the American Psychological Association. A joint technical session on color will be held at the annual convention of the Illuminating Engineering Society this fall and also with the American Society for Testing Materials at its 1941 spring meeting to be held in Washington."
"The Research Council of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, handling coöperative technical problems for the industry, is, by its very nature, interested in many of the problems confronting theater owners."
"A machine for cleaning motion picture film by dry wiping has been equipped with a reservoir and distributing system so as to fit it for application of a cleaning liquid. In order to prevent dust from being carried into the roll when film is rewound, the wind up is enclosed in a box into which filtered air is pumped at a sufficient rate to maintain a forceful discharge stream at the point where the film enters. This stream dislodges dust particles. — In order to have sufficient light on a meter in a darkroom the face of the meter is covered with a metal hood containing a suitable safelight. The meter is observed through a small aperture which permits very little light to escape into the room. Self-luminous finder buttons used as markers in a darkroom can be protected from dirt and corrosion by mounting them in an inverted glass ignition tube which is sealed at the open end with a thermoplastic. — A developing machine roller is provided with frictional driving engagement with the shaft on which it is mounted by the use of spring-held shoes which bear against the shaft. — Oscillation in a mechanical filter in the drive train of a continuous printer has been subdued by the use of Koroseal strips in place of springs and friction damping."
"Readers are invited to submit for publication in this section of the Journal brief items of technical information pertaining to the industry."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C."
"The Papers Committee submits for the consideration of the membership the following abstracts of papers to be presented at the Fall Convention. It is hoped that the publication of these abstracts will encourage attendance at the meeting and facilitate discussion. The papers presented at Conventions constitute the bulk of the material published in the Journal. The abstracts may therefore be used as convenient reference until the papers are published."
"The tendency of bare glass surfaces to reflect light has always presented a serious problem in optics. New discoveries in the field of physics have resulted in methods of reducing these light reflections. One of these methods has proved practicable for general use in optical equipment. The reduction of reflections in treated systems has been so great that ghosts and flares are rarely encountered. The light no longer reflected by the glass surfaces is transmitted by the optical systems, increasing their efficiency. Camera lenses treated with the new process show an increase in speed of nearly a full stop. New applications of the process are being found almost daily."
"The carbon arc has had an important part in the progress of the motion picture industry from the time of its origin to the present day. This narrative of the various improvements and developments which have kept the carbon arc in its preferred position as a source of projection light is presented in chronological sequence. Data are given relative to the progress made along five lines of improvement: intrinsic brilliancy of the crater, quality of light produced, volume of light on the screen, efficiency of light production, and economy of operation."
"This paper is a review of work done in the laboratories of National Carbon Company, Inc., the College of Medicine of the University of Nebraska, the School of Public Health of Harvard University, and the Department of Health of the City of Detroit on the products of combustion from carbon arcs used in the motion picture industry. Analyses of the gases coming from various lamps show that, even in the stacks, the only gas occurring in toxic concentration is nitrogen dioxide. — The biological effects of undiluted stack gas from simplified high-intensity arcs upon experimental animals were only those due to the nitrogen dioxide. — The arc-ash fume when administered by intratracheal and subcutaneous routes in rabbits was found to be relatively inert. — Determination of nitrogen dioxide concentrations in poorly ventilated projection rooms failed to show any concentration more than about one-fifth that generally considered as allowable for exposure of several hours' duration, and therefore there is little or no hazard in these projection rooms. — Studies of ventilation under controlled conditions show that even with very low rates of both lamp house and room ventilation there is no danger of gases or fumes reaching concentrations which are toxic and that if sufficient ventilation is provided to produce comfortable working conditions there can not be any appreciable concentrations of nitrogen dioxide or arc-ash fumes in the booth."
"A series of noise measurements were made in theaters to determine the cause of low intelligibility of dialog recordings of wide volume range. Audience noise level was found to be a serious restriction, because it averages 8 db louder than film noise level and reduces the useful volume range by that amount. Audience noise is an extremely variable factor, as measurements made in the same theater showed it to be as low as the film noise in one instance and later to rise 14 db above this value. To secure good intelligibility, the volume range of the dialog must be compressed so that the softest-spoken words never are so low in level as to be seriously masked by audience noise."
"This paper deals with certain aspects of the intricate relationship between the nature of hearing loss associated with various stages of impairment for hearing speech in everyday situations and the possibilities of improving physical therapy for the deafened through improvements in the design of hearing aids. — The data, upon which the study is based, were obtained during a clinical study of deafness and aural disease conducted by the United States Public Health Service during the spring and summer of 1936. — Variations in the nature of hearing loss are shown for persons having the following stages of practical handicaps for hearing speech in everyday situations: (a) impairment for hearing at church, in the theater, and in group conversation; (b) impairment for hearing conversation at close range; (c) impairment for hearing over the telephone; and (d) inability to hear speech under any circumstances."
"A brief survey of some new technics in studio lighting practice, covering both carbon arc and incandescent lighting."
"With the arrival of December thirty-first this year, I shall have closed my two-year term of office as your President. It is with mingled feelings of relief and regret that I shall turn over to my successor the honor and the responsibilities of the Presidency of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers. I can say to him that this job is not a sinecure. Any man who takes seriously his responsibilities as the chief officer of our Society is going to work long and hard during his two years of incumbency. Our constitution and by-laws wisely provide for a decentralization of executive functions and it has been my good fortune and pleasure to have as fellow officers and governors of this Society, some of the finest, most conscientious and hard-working associates that any chief executive could wish for. If the SMPE has made progress during my administration, it is because of the fine support I have had from these men."
"An account of the work of the several sub-committees of the Theater Engineering Committee during the past year. The report of the Sub-Committee on Projection Practice embodies a comprehensive power survey in theaters throughout the country, and interim reports of the Working Committees on Tools and Tolerances, and on Fire Hazards. The report on screen brightness and illumination meters includes an analysis and organization of the entire practical system of photometric nomenclature and conversions. — The report of the Sub-Committees on Theater Design refers to the projected glossary of terms used in the theater design and discusses the question of staggered seating in theaters. Consideration is given also the proposal to use green instead of red lights for auditorium exit signs."
"A report of activities of the Committee during the past season, containing a brief discussion of the relation between SMPE Recommended Practices and American Standards and Recommended Practices. SMPE “Standards” no longer exist, according to action of the Board of Governors, but rather SMPE “Recommended Practices.” The latter can not become “standards” unless and until approved by the American Standards Association."
"The Television Committee of the Society during the past year has carried out a considerable amount of work as listed: (1) Flicker and visual fatigue in television has been studied, a preliminary report on which work is presented herein. (2) A study of the most suitable type of film for television transmissions has been carried out, a report on which will be presented also. (3) More material has been added to a bibliography and glossary of terms in the field of television, which work was started more than a year ago and which still continues."
"A statement of the work of the Committee as a whole and individual reports of sub-committees on the following subjects: (I) Handling and Winding of Film; (II) Safe and Economical Storage, size of vent per unit weight of film determined; (III) Printers for Old and Shrunken Film."
"A brief description of the changes that have occurred in studio lighting during the past season. No important changes of technic have occurred but there have been a number of changes in lighting facilities."
"Among the problems facing the Committee this year is the preparation of a list of performance criteria covering the important functions of 16-mm projection equipment, both silent and sound. The Committee has arranged in this respect to coöperate with the Committee on Scientific Aids to Learning, of the National Research Council, in preparing a report to guide the educational field in the selection and use of this equipment."
"The Committee is endeavoring to augment the motion picture exhibit at the National Museum of the Smithsonian Institution at Washington, which the Board of Governors has chosen as the official museum for historical exhibits collected by the Society. — A complete list of motion picture exhibits at the Museum is given, and a plea is made for assistance by the members of the Society in adding to the accessions."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C."
"Improvements in film characteristics together with progress in film laboratory technic and in 16-mm sound recording during the past few years have made it possible to produce sound motion pictures directly on 16-mm film with both picture and sound quality comparable to the results obtained in the past by optical reduction from 35-mm negatives, and at considerably reduced cost. This method is of special value in the production of training films and other types of industrial and educational motion pictures requiring much of the photography to be done away from studio facilities. — This paper discusses the apparatus available for direct 16-mm production, the film types that are in use, the film laboratory services that are available, and the methods that are used by direct 16-mm producers in the cases where these methods differ from those of the 35-mm producer. Particular attention is given to the Kodachrome process as used in commercial motion picture production."
"A brief review of projection practice from the beginning, pointing out the extremely poor conditions confronting projectionists in early days. Early projection equipments are illustrated and contrasted with those in use today. The work of some of the outstanding pioneers who had to do with early invention and improvements in projection equipment is described."
"It is very difficult, if not impossible, to remove the last traces of hypo from photographic papers by any known procedure of washing. The sulfur in the residual hypo ultimately, and especially under abnormal conditions of temperature and humidity, combines with the silver image to form yellowish-brown silver sulfide. This phenomenon is known as sulfiding or “fading” of the image. The various factors which affect the rate of fading of images and the washing out of hypo from films and papers are outlined. — Chemical methods of hypo elimination. have been proposed from time to time but the majority of these have not been satisfactory bemuse they tend to leave substances such as thionates in the photographic material, which are equally as difficult to wash out as hypo and which also tend to sulfide or fade the silver image. A new hypo eliminator is recommended consisting of two volatile chemicals, hydrogen peroxide and ammonia. This eliminator oxidizes the hypo to sodium sulfate, which is inert and soluble in water, while any excess eliminator evaporates on drying. — Two formulas and treatments are proposed: (1) Complete elimination of hypo for use by the professional, advanced amateur, and photofinisher who demand the highest standard of photographic quality in their prints. (2) Almost complete elimination of hypo (less than 0.01 milligram per square inch). Since the conditions to which prints will be subjected are rarely known in advance, use of the “complete elimination treatment” is advised in all cases."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held, in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"These standards apply to all types of air switches and bus supports above 600 volts whether for indoor or outdoor service. These standards do not apply to air circuit-breakers. (See Standard No. 20.)"
