"This paper points out a method for analyzing the results obtained from dissipation-factor tests of transformer insulation. Experimental data, obtained both from transformer tests, extending over the past three years, and from tests of sample insulation, indicate a definite relation between resistance and capacitance, with varying conditions of temperature and moisture. This relation furnishes an additional means for determining the condition of insulation when considered with other accepted methods. The physical arrangement of the transformer windings, and the type of test equipment used, affect the tests and should be considered when interpreting results."
"Although the application of electricity for the auxiliaries of railroad trains has not been as spectacular as its use for traction purposes this has increased in a remarkable manner since its first application for electric-lighting purposes about 60 years ago.1 This application was confined largely to lighting purposes until the last few years when streamlined high-speed passenger trains and air-conditioned cars have ushered in a new era of railroad transportation. This paper points out the increased use of electricity for auxiliaries other than those in electric and Diesel-electric locomotives."
"The thermal converter discussed in this paper is of the type which produces at its output terminals a millivoltage proportional to the polyphase power connected to its input terminals, the connections being made as for a wattmeter. High-speed response is secured through the use of a new circuit network wherein the thermocouples function also as heaters. Response time of the order of one-half second is obtained. The use of nickel-alloy transformer cores saturating at overloads broadens the over-load capacity of the thermal unit itself. Thermal converters of this type are widely used in the summation of power."
"The paper is a theoretical treatment of the torsional damper which has been applied effectively to the protection of transmission line conductors from fatigue failures due to aeolian vibrations. The formulae of the energy dissipation are derived for three cases, viz., a single rigid damper, two rigid dampers at one end of a span, and a single damper with a resilient joint at the centre of gravity. The results are valuable in understanding the mode of operation of the torsional damper and point to certain optimum features of design. The formulae can be used for numerical calculations when the physical constants are known."
"This paper describes the appli-cation of Hipersil to three 40,000 Kv-a units for the Philo generating station of The Ohio Power Company. Because of Hipersil's ability to carry one-third more magnetic flux, appreciable savings in weight and dimensions are possible-in fact, the transformers will be shipped in oil completely assembled with bushings in place, ready to operate. Forced-oil and forced-air cooling are provided, with proper relays for protection in the event of excessive copper temperature or auxiliaries. Reliability, economy, ease of installation, and low maintenance have been the objectives sought in the design."
"D.C. potentials are associated with static cellular life and are a product of metabolism. A.C. potentials are associated with many tissues controlling or responding to movement. Brain tissue is the most highly developed and exists normally in a state of constant, irregular electrical activity."
"This paper grades several three-phase combinations of instrument transformers and watthour meters under various conditions according to their approach to the best standard practice. The combinations are described and sources of uncertainty or of error are discussed. Diagrams are included to show the schematic connections of the component transformers and meters, both separately and in combination and of the power systems to be metered."
"Testing cables by means of the impulse generator, originally developed for cables, is becoming recognized more and more as a useful method for determining cable quality. It is felt that the amount of data accumulated during the past ten years is sufficiently large to be used in formulating a theory concerning the factors governing the impulse strength of cables. It is indicated in this paper that maximum rather than average stress should be taken into account when impulse test results are evaluated, since the maximum stress at breakdown is a measure of the quality of the insulation alone. This view is contrary to that generally accepted in this country although some workers in this field abroad have accepted this theory for some time."
"The value of power-factor tests on bushings at higher voltages has been demonstrated. Tests at low voltages, while valuable, are inadequate. The power-factor and capacitance vs. voltage characteristics at voltages up to or above the operating voltage are important in judging the condition of the insulation. The nature of bushing deterioration and the significance of high power factor have been shown by laboratory examinations. The findings help to establish a basis for power-factor limits, and for improvements in design and maintenance."
"Up to the present time current transformer performance has been described by curves which show ratio error and phase angle over a range of current at various values of burden, (ohms) power factor, and frequency. The number of curves that are required to cover all possible conditions is so great as to render them, by their very bulk, practically useless. Another limitation is that they do not describe performance under transient conditions. Performance of other types of transformers and certain other apparatus is invariably calculated from a few easily measured constants, according to simple standard formulas. Up to the present time, available methods for calculation of current transformer performance have had the disadvantage of either being difficult to use, or of depending on constants difficult to measure, or else they have not been sufficiently accurate for general use. A method is described which depends on the following constants: 1. Open-circuit saturation curve measured in the usual way. 2. Secondary coil resistance. 3. Equivalent leakage reactance calculated from the voltage of an exploring coil enclosing the maximum value of leakage flux. The method includes several important short cuts in the calculation which reduce the numerical work to a practical minimum. Curves are plotted which allow direct reading of the exact components of exciting current which cause ratio error and phase angle. The objects of the paper are: 1. To present a practical method of calculation. 2."
"Two methods of identifying three-phase conductors, voltages, and currents are in general use today. One method, used extensively on power systems and based on 30° voltage relations, is called ``standard'' nomenclature.1,2,3 The other method, used frequently for analytical purposes and based on 90° voltage relations, is called ``symmetrical'' nomenclature.4 The following advantages of the symmetrical plan are discussed: 1. It is easier to use. 2. It identifies single-phase currents. 3. It requires fewer angles. 4. It is universal. 5. It is symmetrical."
"Widespread interest in transient recovery voltage phenomena has led to the development of a device for determining the recovery characteristics of circuit and apparatus. The problem was solved by making use of the inultiple surge testing technique which, in turn, involves the use of a low voltage repeating type surge generator. This paper describes the method and necessary equipment and indicates the range of conditions to which they may be applied. Demonstration tests on miniature and full scale circuits are also shown."
"If ground fault coils are used in high tension overhead systems and underground cable networks, earth leakage relays may be employed to indicate the location of single ground faults. The influence of the contact resistance at the point of the ground is explained. Earth leakage relays in compensated networks, their operation in radial and meshed networks, and the means for determining their correct operation by tests, are described. The paper is based on the practical experiences gained from such installations in England and in Continental Europe."
"Motor protectors are selected and applied so that they restrict the motor winding temperature to specified values at normal voltage and frequency and a room temperature of 40°C. The accompanying table shows the probable increase (or decrease) in winding temperatures which may occur on account of abnormal voltages, frequencies, or ambient temperatures, or with restricted ventilation."
"This paper presents the results of an investigation made to determine and evaluate the effect of the factors affecting neutral instability of Y-grounded potential transformer circuits. The method used employs the medium of miniature system representation. The results therefore include the effect of saturation. The effects of the shape of the saturation curve, normal operating voltage, resistance of the winding, system capacitance, and impedance in the broken Δ secondary or across each phase are illustrated. Regions of instability are shown which should be avoided in applying Y-connected potential transformers as ground fault detectors. The analysis shows by means of oscillograms the conditions under which incorrect indications of faults may be obtained."
"The quality of electric service as reflected through variations in motor speeds resulting principally from voltage surges is about as important to many manufacturing processes as is the continuity of such service. This paper sets forth the effects of voltage surges on an extremely speed-sensitive manufacturing process and describes how the effect can be minimized to the extent of becoming harmless. Test data are given which show the effects of voltage surges, of varying duration and magnitude, on the process, and the voltage surge is shown engraved in the finished product as the purchaser sees it. The maximum tolerable driving motor speed variation, without impairment to the product, is established and means are described for preventing a greater variation irrespective of the voltage surge intensity. An alarm system is described which is capable of instantly responding when variations in speed exceed tolerable limits. Use of a synchronous condenser, to supply energy during the interim of severe voltage disturbances or brief power failures, is effective in preventing motor-speed variations from exceeding the tolerable limits. These and other recent improvements will provide highly reliable electric service for the requirements of those manufacturing proccesses which are very exacting as to speed variations."
"Impulse and 60-cycle breakdown strength of sphere gaps, rod gaps, and of samples built up of solid and fluid dielectrics are reported. The tests were made in nitrogen up to 200 pounds per square inch gauge pressure and in Freon up to 70 pounds per square inch gauge pressure. Dielectric strength values were compared with the breakdown of transformer oil between the same electrodes. Gap conditions were found for which the 60 cycle breakdown was twice its impulse breakdown."
"The increasing spread of distribution systems in which fault protection is afforded by fuses has resulted in long outages and high maintenance costs. Excellent coordination is possible with modern fuses, but their inability to differentiate between a permanent and a temporary fault results in frequent outages and costly service trips. A new automatically reclosing circuit breaker with pronounced inverse time current tripping characteristics makes possible an improved radial distribution system in which outage and maintenance are reduced to a minimum. The effectiveness of coordination is increased to a point where an outage is confined to the immediate neighborhood of a permanent fault. Service trips are no longer necessary unless there is a permanent fault condition to be removed from the system."
"An approximate solution is obtained for the current in a short-circuited coil or group of coils in the armature of a synchronous machine operating under load. The solution is expressed as the sum of a series of harmonics whose terms are in geometric ratio. The results obtained are similar in form to those previously obtained for the short circuit of a complete phase winding, and they reduce to that for the single-phase short circuit in the limiting case when the coil group comprises a complete phase. An experimental check of the theory is given for the case of a short circuit of a single armature coil, and it is shown that close agreement is obtained between theory and test with respect to the fundamental component of current, though not with respect to the small higher harmonics of current."
"A transient swing above synchronous speed has been observed when a certain standard squirrel cage induction motor was started without load. This paper presents an explanation of the phenomenon based on the frequency modulation of the power supply caused by the rapid variation of the power taken from the line. Mathematical relations are developed and applied to the operating conditions of this motor. The agreement of the mathematical and test curves indicates that the explanation is basically correct although some secondary effects, not considered, may be present."
"Complex periodic functions, when transformed into a corresponding voltage wave, may be analyzed with the use of a cathode ray oscillograph. The complex wave is represented upon the fluorescent screen of the cathode ray tube by a vertical displacement at the same time that a sinusoidal horizontal oscillation exists. If the frequency of the sinusoidal oscillation bears an integral relation to the fundamental frequency of the complex wave, a Lissajous figure is viewed on the screen. The areas of these Lissajous figures are directly related to the coefficients of the Fourier series of the complex wave. The area is determined by measuring a photograph of the figure using a polar planimeter. The method is based on the theory developed by Mr. L. W. Chubb in connection with the Chubb Polar Analyzer.4 Advantages of the method are that it is quick and convenient, only standard laboratory equipment is necessary, and with special equipment, it promises to make possible the analysis of ultrahigh frequency waves."
"In the past several years there have been offered a number of calculation methods to be used in connection with predetermining the performance of single- phase induction motors. While such methods are usually based upon either the cross field or the revolving field theory, they differ from each other according to individual preferences. In the present paper there is proposed a method which seems to be convenient and simple, and which, because of symmetry, involves a minimum of charts in carrying out the necessary calculations. The method is proposed because it has been used in one design department for a number of years and found to be very satisfactory as a practical method."
"This paper describes a reclosing relay for oil circuit-breaker control which is new in design, new in function, and new in operation. It was designed and built with additional features to meet certain reclosing requirements which cannot be obtained by use of standard reclosing relays. These reclosing requirements, brought about by complete automatization of high-voltage oil circuit-breakers in transmission networks and on lines containing automatic sectionalizing air-break switches, are herein described. Also several schemes of timesequence-coordination are given for the operation of oil circuit-breakers with automatic line sectionalizing air-break switches. Of special interest is a scheme for materially reducing fuse outages, which utilizes the described reclosing relay for coordinating the operations of a breaker with fuse operations on the line served by the breaker."
"Conventional methods of transmission are analyzed and discussed both for existing transmission distances up to about 300 miles and for greater distances up to a full wave length; also eight different methods that have been proposed for increasing the loading per circuit or distance to which a-c power can be transmitted are discussed. Of these methods, series compensation of the line reactance appears to be the most favorable for straightaway distances up to about 600 to 700 miles at 60 cycles. The problem is analyzed mathematically and with the aid of an a-c network analyzer. Curves are included which give the power limits and reactive kilovoltampere requirements for a large number of parameters, including the effect of distance, voltage, conductor size, series and shunt compensation, terminal impedances, and stability margin. This analysis indicates that the limitation of the transmission of a-c power greater straightaway distances than has been accomplished heretofore is primarily that of the cost of the line, the stability limitation can be overcome by a comparatively small increase in cost."
"A 220-kv line, 150 miles long has been constructed between Powerton Station near Peoria, Illinois, and Crawford Station in the city of Chicago. This line will probably operate continuously near the static stability limit and will deliver 150,000 kilowatts to the city from Powerton Station near the coal fields of southern Illinois. this area and includes several novel features, such as a unique carrier current system for tripping the breakers at the remote end of the line, for telemetering, load control, and The 180,000-kva transformer bank at Powerton has two 22,000-volt primary windings connected to different busses. The Crawford transformer bank has a 150,000-kva winding at 220-kv, a 75,000-kva winding at 12-Kv, and two 90,000-Kva winding at 69-kv for connection to separate 66-kv systems. Regulating transformers are provided at both terminals. A 75,000-kva synchronous condenser at the Crawford terminal is connected to the 12-kv transformer winding for voltage control. No 220-kv breakers are used at either end of, the line. This paper describes only the operating features and the terminal facilities; a companion paper by Messrs. Oldacre and Wollaston describes the construction features of the line."
"Intercity networks appear vital to the success of television broadcasting. Experiments with wire lines for this purpose and for local transmission of present-day television signals are reported herein. The design and construction of the equipment used are described and its performance characteristics given. The intercity lines discussed involve carrier transmission over coaxial cable with repeaters which pass a net band of about 2¾ megacycles. For local intracity connections video transmission of about a 4 mc band is obtained over existing telephone plant or by means of special low attenuation cable. Varopis corcuit arrangements including the facilities used in bringing scenes from the Republican Convention in Philadelphia to the N. B. C. in New York are shown together with their overall television transmission characteristics."
"It has long been known that transient magnetizing inrush currents, sometimes reaching magnitudes as high as eight times full-load current, may flow in a transformer winding for a period following the moment when it is energized by connecting it to an electric power circuit. It has not been generally appreciated, however, that other transformers already connected to the power circuit near the transformer being switched may also have transient magnetizing currents of considerable magnitude at the same time, although they themselves are not switched but remain continuously connected to the power circuit, carrying load. It has not been appreciated, moreover, that with this arrangement the transient periods of the inrush currents may be very long, the currents dying away at a much slower rate than would the inrush current of the transformer being switched if the others were not connected. This paper discusses the cause of these phenomena and describes tests made to investigate their occurrence. The results of a mathematical analysis for the currents in the circuit under various conditions, supporting and extending the test results, are given in the appendix. The amount of resistance in the transmission line circuit connecting the parallel transformers with the generating source is shown both by tests and mathematics to be a determining factor; the magnitude of the inrush current in the already connected transformers increasing to values of over twice full load current as the line resistance increases."
"A new kind of channel-sequencing system allots the full capacity of a telegraph circuit to the busy channels alone. A busy channel cuts itself out of its sequential position by becoming idle but may re-enter the sequence at will by offering one letter for transmission. Entry, mixing, and exit are accomplished by electromechanical control of standard start-stop and multiplex printing telegraph apparatus. Special signal or code combinations are used to denote changes in the pattern of subchannels cut in, and to act as a check on correct distribution. For greater efficiency, ordinary message letters, by a new method, may be interspersed among successive elements of switching combinations, and the cascading of combinations is also employed. Dummy channels, high-speed receivers, and other devices may be used to prevent or utilize unusual channel speeds. Varioplex systems may be repeatered either by subchannel storage or by storage involving several subchannels handled as a unit."
"A knowledge of the natural frequencies of transformer, reactor, and generator windings is essential for the determination of the transient response of such coils to lightning waves and switching surges, as well as for the calculation of the recovery characteristics of circuit breakers and expulsion gaps. Different testing methods have been employed to determine these natural frequencies, and it has usually been taken for granted that each of these different testing procedures gives results in substantial agreement. Recently, however, in a study of transformer transients it was found that several different methods of test failed to agree, and an investigation as to the cause of the discrepancies disclosed that all of these usual methods are not equally valid or reliable. It is, therefore, the object of this paper to discuss various testing procedures, and to point out their theoretical limitations toward yielding the supposed information. The voltage distribution along the winding of a grounded neutral transformer is discussed analytically and the basic equations are developed. Results of voltage distribution tests made by several methods are reported and compared. The various methods of testing are discussed and compared with the conclusion that the method of free oscillation is, in general, preferable."
"This paper deals with and outlines a new solution to the problem of providing adequate short circuit protection for low-voltage distribution systems and circuits operating at 600 volts or less. Recent tests and field experience have dispelled the illusion that protective devices of very limited interrupting ability will satisfactorily protect any low-voltage circuit. A recently published calculating procedure makes possible the accurate determination of the short circuit currents obtainable in low voltage circuits or systems. Modern types of low-voltage air circuit breakers in a wide range of interrupting ratings are now available. While the best short circuit protection is obtained by selecting those of calculated short circuit current, such a procedure is not always justifiable. In many instances a relatively large number of main feeder circuits, emanating from a bus fed through one or more main breakers or incoming line breakers, supply an even larger number of branch feeders. The short circuit currents obtainable at the branch-feeder breaker locations may not be materially less than those obtainable at the main bus. Yet the selection of branch feeder breakers, or possibly even main feeder breakers, with interrupting ratings high enough to match these obtainable currents, may prove completely impractical when viewed with any reasonable regard for space requirements or cost."
"This paper presents the results of an investigation of the half wave and full wave rectifier circuits with a simple capacitance filter and using either high vacuum or mercury vapor tubes. In the fore part of the paper an equivalent circuit is set up such that when the tube is conducting, a mercury vapor tube is represented by a constant voltage drop or a high vacuum tube by a constant resistance. A detailed analysis of this circuit is carried through in the appendix, and it is found that the output characteristics depend upon three parameters. The results of this analysis are presented in the form of curves giving the angles at which the tubes begin conducting and cease conducting and also the d-c output voltage. For the more special case of no tube drop, curves of ripple voltage, maximum tube current, and tube inverse peak voltage are presented. The comparisons made between the calculated results and test results show very satisfactory agreements. It is shown that the curves given in the paper may be used in the design of rectifier circuits with capacitance filters."
"The transient induced voltage across the interpole and compensating windings of d-c motors or generators on short circuit or flashover provide a quick and convenient means of actuating circuit breaker or other protective devices. Such means have made possible quicker tripping times than are obtained with the conventional series overload or reverse current protection."
"Perfect current transformers would make all differential relaying simple, but such transformers would be of excessive size and cost. A new idea in current transformer design makes it possible to maintain a linear relation between primary and secondary currents in a transformer and reasonable size, even where high current values, completely offset, are encountered. Such a current transformer is particularly valuable for applications where high speed bus differentical protection is required. The basic principles of design and test results are reviewed showing that the air gap core current transformer retains a fixed ratio over the full range of current for which it is designed. There is thus made available a current transformer of reasonable size, which may be easily applied and may be used with simple relays."
"A method is outlined for determining the effectiveness of devices used for prevention of vibration fatigue in transmission conductors. Measuring equipment is described which provides records of conductor vibration in the quantitative form essential for such determinations. Vibration records obtained on typical constructions are analyzed and correlated with fatigue tests and operating experience to determine the probable life of the conductor. Data are given on the performance of test spans of a special loose-core A.C.S.R., as well as A.C.S.R. of standard stranding, for various span lengths, tensions, and equipped with various devices, including a double-suspension clamp, armor rods, Stockbridge dampers and a newly-developed torsional damper. Of the devices tested, dampers are shown to be most effective in reducing vibration stresses."
"More often than not, the non-linear problems of electrical engineering arise from discrete physical systems and are usually reducible mathematically to the solution of systems of non-linear total differential equations or to systems of non-linear integral equations. Six independent methods of solving discrete non-linear problems are given in this paper. Each method is illustrated by means of an electrical engineering problem. The illustrative examples employed pertain to a-c and d-c non-linear circuits, reluctance-induction motors, hunting of and dynamic braking of synchronous machines. References to additional methods are given in the bibliography. The 88 given references listed represent approximately ten per cent of the field, but many of the entries contain a bibliography on their respective fields. The accelerated growth of research in the field of non-linearity is due to different causes. The general advancement of science requires increasingly more precise expressions for the laws of science. Accurate non-linear equations frequently depart from the linearized or postulated linear equations which have been previously used for approximate results. The quest for perfection and generalization and the love of difficult investigations by professional mathematicians play a large part in this growth. A recent incentive is the increasingly exacting requirements of modern manufacturing. These requirements are born of the competitive necessity of producing ever improved machines and equipment in the most economical manner."
"In the investigation described in this paper, measuerements have been made and statistical data obtained on the multiple character and wave shape of the currents in direct strokes and the currents discharged by lightning arresters. These data, in conjunction with other data on the field performance of arresters, have revealed definite differences between the nature of direct strokes and the currents they produce in arresters. 1. Arrester discharge currents have fewer components than found in direct strokes. Only about 30 per cent were found to be multiple and not over 8 components were recorded, while from 50 to 70 per cent of direct strokes were multiple with as many as 32 components recorded. 2. Components of arrester discharges are of lower crest magnitude. Only 30 per cent of those measured exceeded 1,000 amperes, while for direct strokes 50 per cent exceeded 5,000 amperes. 3. The initial high current portions of the components of arrester discharges do not vary greatly in wave shape and are similar to those of direct strokes, having for both types of discharges times to half value which, in general, lie between 25 and 100 microseconds and average about 50 micro- seconds. 4. The long duration low magnitude portions of direct strokes vary over wide limits, both in magnitude and duration. However, for arrester discharges they are seldom present to any appreciable degree."
"The extending use being made of frequencies from 900 to 12,000 for special purposes such as induction furnaces, etc., introduces new problems in instrument design and calibration. Previous practical a-c instruments were either of the electrodynamic or moving iron types designed for low power frequencies or thermal and rectifier types for audio and radio frequencies, these latter usually being confined to measurements of only current and voltage. The ordinary low frequency electromagnetic instruments have such high coilreactance and losses that they are unsuitable for the higher power frequencies in question without special arrangements, which are described in the paper. Furthermore, the usual calibration methods and standards as previously used for low frequencies are not adequate, and therefore, new methods of calibration were introduced."
"Presents bibliography of literature on relay technology."
"This report of the joint committee* on co-ordination of insulation of AIEE, Edison Electric Institute, and National Electrical Manufacturers Association is the culmination of more than ten years' study to establish basic insulation co-ordination. It specifies basic impulse insulation levels in terms of a withstand voltage for a specified test wave. These values are to be the bases for various AIEE and other standards now in course of development or revision."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The curves of figure 5 are typical of those obtainable by the electrical apparatus described. Inasmuch as the oil-pressure indicator was connected to the bottom of the buffer cylinder, there was a short time interval between the instant of maximum pressure as shown on the pressure gauge and the maximum deceleration. This time interval is that required for the high-pressure wave to travel through the oil from the piston to the gauge. This difference in time demonstrates the elasticity of the light transformer oil used. The accuracy of this method is satisfactory for all existing test codes."
"The suggested requirements for radio-free pin-type, switch and bus, and suspension insulators, if acceptable, indicate and justify from a factory testing and production viewpoint, the following conclusions as regards existing standard designs: 1. For distribution voltages up to 4,400 or even 5,500 volts, the small one-piece pin-type insulators used require no ``radio-proofing'', even on solidly grounded pins. 2. If there is 6 to 12 inches of crossarm in series with small one-piece pin-type insulators on low-voltage distribution lines up to 13 kv, no ``radio-proofing'' is needed on the insulators. 3. Standard untreated pin-type insulators used on 17 to 69-kv distribution and transmission lines have radio noise-influence voltages in the order of several thousand microvolts at a test potential about ten per cent above the usual line-to-ground voltages. ``Radio-proofed'' pin-type insulators, readily meeting reasonable requirements for freedom from radio interference, are available for use on lines in this voltage range. 4. Standard cemented pin-and-cap switch and bus insulators up to the 69-kv rating, with the exception of the 66-S-class, readily meet the suggested requirements for freedom from radio interference without any special ``radio-proofing'' treatment; they are inherently quiet. 5. Standard switch and bus insulators for the 66-S-class and the 115-kv and higher-voltage classes may require ``radio-proofing'' or other precautions to meet the suggested abnormally low requirements. These insulators with slight changes can be made to meet these requirements readily. 6."
"A method of calculating the performance of repulsion motors is developed for the purpose of predetermining the torques and currents, especially for repulsion-start, induction-run motors during the starting period. The method is based on the cross-field theory presented by H. R. West. It is developed along similar lines to the single-phase calculation method presented by C. G. Veinott,2 and is intended for use in connection with it. The paper presents also the results of investigation showing the effects of varying the several motor constants, and a method of determining the effect of brush resistance."
"A method is presented whereby the equations of capacitor motor performance calculation as developed by Mr. W. J. Morrill,1 are arranged in a calculation sheet or form for use in routine design work."
"Increasing concentration of power combined with the desire for more compact switchgear assemblies has created a demand for small, totally enclosed, high-interrupting-capacity fuses suitable for potential and operating transformer protection. The current-limiting fuse meets these requirements for it is inherently a high-interrupting-capacity fuse of low current rating and can be totally enclosed in a small space. The theory and construction of previous current-limiting fuses are briefly described. The theory and construction of a new current-limiting fuse is give. The new fuse is simple in theory and construction. Its fundamental elements can be separated, studied, and tested, making it possible to predict an unusual degree of reliability and freedom from voltage surges. Test results confirm the reliability, high interrupting capacity, and freedom from voltage surges of the new fuse."
"This paper describes a new electrical control system with which a standard power-system governor may be made sensitive to system load as well as frequency. A proposed scheme of application is presented which is believed to permit electrical control of a standard governor instead of mechanical control, without any sacrifice of reliability."
"A new instrument has been developed which will automatically read and record in numerals, at predetermined time intervals, the ampere loading on 50 different electric circuits. This instrument also adds the readings on groups of circuits and prints these totals in columns beside the ampere load readings. The paper outlines briefly the reasons for developing such a device. The paper also describes, with the aid of schematic diagrams, the process by which the instrument obtains and prints all the measurements and totals on a single ``log sheet.''"
"The direct transmission of pictorial matter over transatlantic submarine cable has become practical through the development of some special types of networks and amplifiers. These are required because of the rapid increase of the circuit attenuation with frequency, and in order to override certain characteristic electrical interference to which the cable is subject. A summary is presented of the fundamental theory which governs facsimile and telegraph transmission, and the methods are shown by which this is applied to meet the conditions of cable picture working."
"When transformers arc installed near inhabited districts, their noise must be limited to unobjectionable values. Consequently, means of predetermining noise levels from the desin constants of the transformer and means of noise reduction become necessary. It has been determined that the audio noise of transformers originates in the change in dimensions (magnetostriction) produced in the core steel by the alternating magnetic flux. The vibration caused by the change in dimensions is transmitted to the air through the tank walls. The basic noise may be increased due to the resonant vibration of mechanical parts. Theoretical relations for the sound produced have been derived. These relations are checked by tests on commercial transformers."
"Results are given of an investigation of the electric strength of air at pressures up to 21 atmospheres. Sparking voltages are presented for air under pressure as measured with 60-cycle alternating voltage applied to sphere gaps. Deviation from the linear pressure-voltage relation that exists at low pressures is discussed, and certain characteristics of sparking in compressed air are noted."
"This paper presents (1) a more nearly complete and exact criterion of instability or hunting of a synchronous machine as influenced by its armature or tie line resistance, (2) a general stability criterion which includes in one formula three previously separately treated cases: the usual steady state power limit, rotor hunt ing produced by armature resistance, and self-excitation produced by series capacitance in the armature circuit, and (3) an indication, by means of a numerical example, of the limitations of the previously used approximate criterion for hunting due to armature resistance."
"SEVERAL cross sectional shapes for hollow-pipe transmission lines are described that provide lower operating frequencies for given outside dimensions than do the simple shapes heretofore proposed. The theory for one such line, the ``septate coaxial cable'' is derived, and experiments are reported. Cavity resonator embodying these principles are also described."
"This investigation presents test data on the impulse and 60-cycle characteristics of common rods driven in natural soil (largely clay composition). It sums up and analyzes the results in the characteristic curve of the ratio of impulse to 60-cycle resistance for impulse currents that represent conditions ranging from a traveling surge to direct strokes of lightning. The basic reasons for the performance of grounds to impulse currents as they do are pointed out insofar as the experimental data and observations permit to do so. From this investigation the desirability of establishing the characteristic for other typical soils and for other common types of grounds (electrodes) is apparent."
"D-c breakdown studies of air in a uniform field have been extended to 1,000 kv. D-c studies of Freon (CCl2F2) have been extended to over 350 kv and to 135 pounds, per square inch absolute. The departure from Paschen's law at the higher values of pressure times gap is noted. The mechanisms which account for the higher insulating strength of such gaseous compounds as CCl2F2 are outlined and their possibilities and limitations in the insulation of high-voltage apparatus are briefly discussed."
"The primary purpose of rating an electrical machine is to give the user an idea of what he may expect from the unit which he purchases. It is the purpose of this paper to propose a method of rating arc-welding generators and transformers which will give a truer picture of their working ability than is afforded by the present one-hour rating. Such a method of rating will be beneficial both to the customer who buys and uses arc welders and to the manufacturers who produce and market the units. The user will be better able to select a machine which will do the job to be performed, and at the same time he will be assured that he is not purchasing a machine unduly large for his requirements. The present custom is to give welding transformers and generators a one-hour rating, specifying the current they can deliver for a one-hour period, starting cold, without exceeding the permissible temperature rise. The plan here proposed is to give them a current rating indicative of their normal operating capacity, or short-time welding ability; and an additional service factor rating, indicative of their continuous current capacity, as limited by thermal considerations. All electric apparatus has these two major limitations on its output, one a ``size'' limit expressed by breakdown torque, commutation limit, or voltage drop; and the other a thermal limit expressed by the degrees temperature rise permissible for the type of insulation used."
"Present-day program networks are reviewed from the standpoints of engineering, design, and operation as developed to meet the needs of the broadcasters. The factors requiring consideration in the further development of program networks in anticipation of future needs are also discussed. The presentation of the paper is supplemented by a demonstration of the quality obtainable by transmission over various types of telephone facilities."
"System operating requirements, from the standpoint of frequency and tieline loading, are continually becoming more rigorous and receiving more widespread attention. Supplementary controls have been developed to assist in the solution of these problems-but the speed governors of the prime movers still constitute the backbone of system control. This paper outlines the general problems encountered; gives definitions of terms for both steam and hydro governors and discusses the performance characteristics of these two general classes of prime movers. As a result of discussions with several operating groups certain definite conclusions were reached for prime-mover governor characteristics on the larger systems, viz., dead band should be as small as practicable; uniform incremental regulation desirable; adjustable regulation not necessary; similar rates of response not necessary and accurate response to supplementary control desirable. These conclusions are supported by the analytical work presented in the companion paper.7 A summary of the reasoning supporting these conclusions under the subjects of stability, dead band, regulation, response, short circuits, and tie-line swings is included."
"METHODS of analyzing the oscillograms of short circuit currents of synchronous machines, in accordance with the two reaction theory, are presented in this paper. Differences between the results found here and the more generally accepted equations, based on symmetrical components, are pointed out."
"The displacement and diffusion theories of arc extinction in flowing fluids are defined and contrasted. The question as to the possibility according to hydrodynamical principles of the formation of the wedge required by the displacement theory is considered and decided in the negative. Photographic evidence is also found to contradict the displacement theory. How turbulence will multiply diffusive effects is considered, and an estimate of l00fold multiplication is given for conditions existing in gas blast breakers. This enhancement of diffusion by turbulence is found to make the diffusion theory adequate for accounting for the circuit interrupting capacities of arcs in gas blast circuit breakers."
"That the specter of a major system shutdown is prominent in the thoughts of many operators is evidenced by the 1939 symposium, covering methods of modernization of station-switching facilities, and the 1940 symposium, discussing means of restoring service to systems after a major shutdown. In this paper, system and apparatus performances are studied, during the period between the time allotted for the functioning of the high-speed relay protection, and the point where the system becomes so unstable that a major shutdown occurs. With a view to the further improvement of system operation, the paper studies: 1. Phenomena preceding and during instability; 2. Method of lengthening the period between the fault and instability; 3. A local high-speed back-up relay scheme; 4. Means of automatically and quickly stabilizing an unstable system; and 5. In case all of the above fail, progressive isolation of the system by zones selected by degree of low voltage."
"The first mercury-are rectifiers utilized glass tubes and consequently the physical size and electrical capacity was limited. The efforts to increase the available output led to the development of water-cooled steel-tank vacuum chambers after many years of research and the solution of many problems. This paper is primarily concerned with the solution of the problem presented by corrosion. Corrosion is essentially the returning of a metal to its original state and the problem consists in finding a means to retard the return sufficiently so that corrosion will not be a limiting factor in the life of rectifiers. Analysis of the problem indicates that pitting corrosion causes the greater damage and is largely a function of the character and condition of the metal, the quantity of electricity passing, and also that it is self- propagative. The rate of corrosion is affected by the temperature of the cooling water, the chemical constituency of the water, and potential differences between points on the surface of the rectifier tank. The first efforts in the solution of the corrosion problems were directed toward finding a protective coating to isolate the steel tank from the cooling water. Various paints, varnishes and lacquers, and enamels were investigated, as well as sprayed metal, but were not found satisfactory. Chemical treatment of the water was then investigated and sodium chromate found to give excellent results."
"The varioplex method of telegraphic operation provides each pair of stations connected together by it an ever- ready two-way channel for the exchange of traffic, which occupies a band width of zero when idle and of a variable width when busy, depending upon extent of simultaneous usage by other connected stations. It possesses certain advantages over, or in supplement to, other forms of manual and machine switching or repeatering. Adapted to the use of private subscribers through telemeter service, it is finding extensive application in the telegraph plant."
"This paper describes the design and construction of a 138-kv, 1,500,000-kva air-blast circuit breaker. The construction is made possible by the use of a new interrupting device which utilizes the axial blast nozzle together with a ``conserved pressure'' chamber. The chamber receives the exhaust from the interrupting nozzle and contains the movable contact of the breaker in its open position. By means of a spring-loaded relief valve the pressure and dielectric strength of the air in the chamber are maintained at a high level. The pressure in the chamber is at the same time less than 50 per cent of the pressure above the nozzle restriction so that the air flow through the interrupting nozzle is unimpaired, being the same as through the same nozzle discharging to atmospheric pressure. As a consequence, the conserved pressure breaker is found to have the same ability to interrupt current as a conventional axial nozzle but to be capable of interrupting circuits of much higher voltage. The 138-kv three-phase breaker consists of two interrupting units in series per pole with a disconnecting device included as part of the breaker. Operation of the breaker is entirely pneumatic, opening and closing being performed by energizing the electrically operated valve."
"Heretofore it has not been commercially feasible to apply air-type breakers of the 5,000-volt class to circuits capable of producing short-circuit currents equivalent to 250,000 kva. However the continued demand for air circuit breakers of higher interrupting ratings has stimulated the development of a new breaker suitable for these applications. This achievement has been accomplished through magnetically enhanced diffusion of ionized particles, establishing dielectric strength in a gaseous region which was previously highly conducting. The interrupter consists essentially of an arc chamber of laterally spaced refractory plates embodying V-shaped slots and a magnetic circuit which imposes an intense magnetic field transverse to the slotted plates during the arcing period. The theory of arc interruption by this new air breaker is considered. Design details are described and illustrated. Complete sets of test results are given, with representative oscillograms. The test results are discussed, and it is demonstrated that the new breaker is applicable to modern metal-clad switchgear."
"The growing use of electrical equipment which causes distortion in the supply voltage and current has caused increased concern regarding the performance of watt-hour meters used to meter the energy required by such equipment. The watthour meter is designed and adjusted, in practice, to operate on practically distortionless current and voltage. An analysis of the factors involved and an experimental study of meter registration under definitely controlled conditions show that watt-hour meters should perform satisfactorily unless the degree of distortion is large. These controlled conditions included wide variations in the distortion of potential and current both individually and together. The characteristics of meters of recent design, of all the major manufacturers, were studied experimentally."
"Study of cable behavior on loadcycle tests led to the conclusion that instability of the insulation results from its deformation, leaving ionizable voids in the inner layers, where deterioration starts. This led to the conception of a cable in which the inner and outer layers of paper would have different moduli of elasticity, the outer papers having the higher modulus so that during the cooling period of a load cycle, the outer papers would compress the inner ones and so reduce or eliminate voids therein. The tension of application of the tapes is the same for all layers and does not depart from ordinary practice. It was found that cables made on this principle maintained a remarkable stability of power factor under load-cycle conditions. Finally, a study of cable impregnants showed that an essential characteristic is stability under electrical discharges. An impregnant was developed consisting of a paraffin base oil with a definite proportion of a new synthetic derivative of wood rosin, which possesses this characteristic in a marked degree. This, used in combination with the above-described structure gives the maximum stability we have been able to attain."
"The straight mathematical analysis of the damping problem on the synchronous machine leads to very complicated results. From these results, the conception of the phenomena occurring in the machine is very difficult and in addition the formulas obtained are so long that the calculation becomes tedious and errors can easily be made. In this paper, an attempt has been made to find a simple physical explanation for the positive and negative damping torques of the synchronous machine and on this basis to derive simpler formulas for the calculation of the damping torques. It has been found that the torque of the synchronous machine, as a double-fed machine, consists of three components, two dependent on the speed of the machine and the third dependent on the angle between the rotating field and the rotor. When the synchronous machine oscillates, the change of the first two components produces positive and negative damping torques of the synchronous machine. The change of the third component produces the synchronizing torque. The positive damping torque depends mainly on the primary voltage and secondary resistance; the negative damping torque depends mainly on the excitation and the primary resistance. This knowledge. made it possible to derive a simple and very accurate formula for the positive damping torque as well as a simple approximate formula for negative damping torque. On the basis of these formulas, the influence of the two axes of the machine on the damping can be easily found."
"A new transient condition unique to fuses of the current-limiting type is described and it is recommended that these fuses be designed to inherently control switching surge voltage magnitudes to meet the following conditions: 1. The transient recovery voltage should not exceed the insulation level of rotating machines √2(2E+1,000) where E is the rated terminal-to- terminal rms voltage of the lowest rated machine involved. 2. The transient recovery voltage should preferably not exceed the 60-cycle crest spark-over voltage of associated lightning arresters. 3. If the transient recovery voltage does exceed the 60-cycle crest spark-over voltage of associated arresters, the interrupting rating of the fuse should be determined and assigned to limit the arrester current to a safe magnitude."
"The protective link is a device recently developed for internal mounting in transformer of a wide variety of types and ratings. Its most common application, however, is in distribution transformers where it serves to disconnect the transformer in case of internal fault. Its action in arc extinction depends on a number of factors including a novel arrangement of the lower terminal which allows it to be expelled from the link when heavy currents are interrupted. Although simple and compact, the link is a very efficient arc-quenching device, and has a remarkably high-circuit interrupting capacity combined with high speed of operation. Power arcs of more than 250,000-kva single phase have been interrupted in one-half cycle."
"This paper describes the principles used in controlling the load in a large interconnected system. Automatic frequency controllers with time-error correction and tie-line controllers with frequency bias and time-error correction have been developed for co-ordinating the operations of interconnected systems of any size and geographical extent. Automatic control of two or more stations simultaneously within a group is described, and the relation of the auxiliary frequency controllers to the speed governors is also discussed."
"This paper outlines the application of a new three-phase, single-element induction cylinder network master relay which uses line-to-line connected potential coils. Previous network master relays were three-phase, three-element and employed line-to-neutral connected potential coils. The new relay with line-to-line connected potential coils produces far greater tripping torque during unbalanced primary feeder faults than the older relays with line-to-neutral connected potential coils. Examples are given to show the advantage of the new relay. Modern relays have materially improved tripping characteristics which extend the range of highly leading and lagging currents over which the relays will operate selectively at normal balanced three-phase voltages. The mechanical improvements of the network relays are discussed."
"The data covering five years' operating experience with 33 ultrahigh-speed reclosing breaker installations mainly on a large interconnected and integrated hightension system are presented and analyzed, and conclusions based on this experience are drawn. Out of 71 cases of flashover cited, 65 reclosure were successful and 6 cases of reclosure resulted in restrikes, a record of 91.5 per cent successful reclosures. The conclusions drawn are that not only is actual performance better than appeared possible when the development was first made but that further improvements are possible by further reducing breaker time."
"Footing resistances for transmission line towers must be low for good operation, but it appears that no benefit results from reducing them below a certain limiting value characteristic of a given construction. This is because flashover can apparently be caused not only by excessive footing resistance drop, but also by the reactive drop accompanying rapid rates of current rise when tower currents are large. The records seem to show that overhead ground wires provide better shielding than has been believed. Overhead ground wires and tower footing resistances co-ordinated with line insulation provide preventive protection which is highly efficient. Operating experience indicates that lightning outages can be predicted fairly well from simple probability calculations."
"The highest transient overvoltages on the Chicago 12-kv system occur at the inception of single line-to-ground faults. They may be thought of as resulting from the superposition of a ``cancellation wave'' on the normal steady-state voltage of the system. The transient is not a high- frequency phenomenon and is not generated by an ``intermittent-arcing'' mechanism. The maximum crest values reached are in the neighborhood of 3.5E and persist for only the first cycle or two of the fault. For the remainder of the fault, including the clearance switching, the maximum overvoltage is &$x0221A;3E. These overvoltages may cause secondary (simultaneous) failures in any part of the connected system where the insulation is unable to withstand them for the short times they persist."
"Theory based on the random occurrence of arc-backs indicates that the arc-back rate of ignitrons in series should be very low compared with the arc-back rate of the individual ignitron operating alone on its share of the voltage. To check these ideas, experiments were carried out with high-current ignitrons (350 amperes average per anode) operating in series with voltages balanced and unbalanced, and individually. The results of these tests are given and discussed."
"A review of storage battery applications in the railroad, motor bus, and aircraft transportation fields. Historical notes are recorded of events in the development of gas and Diesel-electric rail cars and Diesel-electric locomotives, especially as those events relate to storage batteries. Similar treatment is given to other battery applications-car lighting, air conditioning, busses, and aircraft. The changes made in the construction of batteries for these services are described. Physical and electrical characteristics are emphasized where they have a bearing on the application."
"Starting with the general equations of the completely transposed n-conductor transmission system expressed in matrix form, the equations are subjected to a similarity transformation. This transformation reduces the general equations to a set of n independent equations. These equations are then subjected to a Laplacian transformation and solved subject to the impression of arbitrary electromotive forces at a certain point of the lines. Expressions are obtained for the resulting traveling waves of voltage and current and the velocities of propagation are discussed."
"A general method of finding linear transformations to eliminate the coupling between substitutive networks is developed. The method is compared with that of symmetrical components and modified symmetrical components and its practical applicability is discussed."
"D-c corona discharges from pointed and sharp-edged conductors have been found to give rise to severe radio interference on aircraft under certain precipitation conditions. Laboratory studies, employing a point-to-plane arrangement, have shown that these discharges are greatly influenced not only by voltage and polarity but also by the geometry of the points. Three distinct types of positive and two of negative corona have been found. One of these types, that occurring on sharp, slender points, is essentially common to both polarities and is free from radio interference at all frequencies up to at least several megacycles. Those discharges common to rather bluntly-backed points extend out some distance from the electrodes and are made up, in general, of a steady ion-migration component plus a series, orderly or otherwise, of ionic bursts. The latter phenomena, through an impulse excitation mechanism, give rise to the radio interference. A number of oscillograms were taken with the Duddell-type oscillograph showing the simultaneous current and radio-interference characteristics of the various types of point discharges. These oscillograms, taken with carefully constructed amplifiers, show the steady component of the discharge to be free from radio interference. Each impulsive burst, however, gives rise to a burst of radio output. Cathode-ray oscillograms show these current bursts to be typical double-exponential impulses of very steep wave front, and in general, of short duration. High resistance in the discharge circuit near the ionization point has a suppressing action on the impulses and greatly reduces the accompanying interference."
"Radio reception at normal frequencies on board high-speed, all-metal aircraft suffers severe interference under certain precipitation conditions. Flight research has shown that under these same conditions, an airplane will accumulate a relatively heavy electric charge. The resulting potential difference between this charged object and its immediate surroundings creates voltage gradients of sufficient magnitude on pointed and sharp-edged extremities of the craft to produce corona discharges. Local radio disturbances of varying character and severe intensity accompany these discharges. Several different mechanisms were found to be involved in the production of the discharges, and currents of magnitudes greater than one milliampere were observed under severe conditions from a single point. Numerous graphic records were taken in flight showing the correlation between the charge and discharge currents at various points on the airplane. These records also illustrated the rapidly fluctuating magnitude of the discharges and indicated that their directions reversed rapidly under certain space-gradient conditions. Ground tests involving the research airplane mounted on insulating supports and charged by means of a high-voltage rectifier, indicated that the radio interference and discharge currents observed in flight could be duplicated under controlled conditions on the ground. Further ground and laboratory tests verified and explained the recognized efficiency of the shielded radio loop in improving to a marked degree the signal-to- noise ratio in the presence of corona discharge interference. The mechanism of the interference was studied intensively in the laboratory."
"A square-wave generator is described which covers a very wide frequency range, is compact, self-contained, and adaptable to many other uses besides the investigation of transient response. The instrument uses a positive-bias type multivibrator. The operation of the multivibrator and clipping circuits are explained. Approximate formulas for the multivibrator frequency and pulse width are derived and discussed and its increased stability against interference explained. Methods and fields for application are then discussed."
"The cross-blast principle of arc interruption has been shown to provide maximum air economy; consequently this method of interruption is well suited for use in an air-blast breaker that must conform to the rigid space requirements and small phase spacings encountered in medium- capacity metal-clad equipment. It is shown that proper co-ordination of the operating mechanism, air supply, interrupting chamber, and resistor make possible a design to meet these requirements. The principle of operation is discussed and it is shown how a resistance is utilized to provide further air economy."
"This paper describes the behavior of water as a dielectric, in particular with reference to its use in water circuit breakers. Water is generally considered to have the properties of an electrical conductor rather than those of an insulator. There are, however, a few applications where the dielectric rather than the conductive properties of water are of importance, as, for example, in its use as the interrupting liquid in circuit breakers. Here the water between electrodes must withstand full circuit voltage during the closing operation until the electrodes are in metallic contact, and also in the opening operation following extinction of the arc, until some auxiliary switch in series can open. Since there appears to be very little published information available on the subject, further knowledge of the behavior of water as a dielectric seemed to be of considerable interest and importance. To secure this information, a study of the subject was undertaken, the results of which will be reported in this paper. Experimental data are presented which indicate that electric breakdown between electrodes immersed in water is, in general, determined by the temperature rise produced by the leakage current in the water. Breakdown appears to occur when steam generation begins. Calculation of time to cause temperature rises to 100 degrees centigrade in the water agree closely with observed time between applied voltage and breakdown."
"Outline of a group of methods that will permit calculation of all the common changes on power-system networks by superposition methods having as a basis the representation of loads as fixed currents. Investigation of the errors involved, and comparison with results obtained by assuming constant-impedance loads, when applied to the average power-system networks in operation today."
"The use of two fuse elements of different rating, in series, in a high-voltage fuse device is described in this paper. The two elements are placed in a tube and the tube is filled with an arc-extinguishing substance and sealed; one end with an expellable plug. In operation the lower rated element melts first on an overcurrent and draws an arc; the energy from this arc is used to build up a pressure and forces the sealing plug out which establishes a second arc. Then the pressure in the tube blasts the arc extinguishing substance into the second arc and interrupts the circuit. For convenience, the circuit-interrupting part of the device is built in the form of a cartridge refill for insertion in a fuse tube or holder. Seven years of field experience have been obtained and is reported in this paper. The device has been applied on circuits up to 60kv."
"The historical background of the development of the vertical-flow interrupter for ``oil-poor'' circuit breakers is reviewed. A description of the interrupter and its theory of operation is given. The application of two of these interrupters to a 138-kv 1½-million-kva ``oil-poor'' porcelain-clad circuit breaker is shown, together with laboratory test results. A review is given of important field tests on a 138-kv single-pole unit, tested line to ground on a large 220-kv operating system up to approximately 2¼ million three-phase kva. Magnetic and cathode-ray oscillograms of these tests are shown."
"Good commutation is essential for the reliable performance of d-c machines with low maintenance costs. As an aid to the commutation adjustment of machines in the factory, or in the field, a systematic test procedure has been found useful on large machines to indicate certain features of the machine's adjustment, notably the commutating field strength and brush position. This information is obtained directly from curves known as ``black bands'' or ``buck and boost curves'' plotted from test observations. The significance and interpretation of these curves in terms of machine adjustments, differential between commutation-reactance voltage and voltage induced by interpole flux are presented and results of observations on machines for special service (variable-speed motors and variable-voltage generators) are also given in this paper. Included are typically shaped ``black bands,'' obtained in practice. The black-band method has proved to be an extremely powerful and useful tool in commutation adjustment and it is hoped that this discussion of it will lead to an increasing use of the method with a corresponding furtherance of knowledge about it, thus enlarging its scope of usefulness."
"In the paper are presented new data on (1) arc-voltage drop and current-limiting effects for arc faults in bar-conductor structures, (2) current-limiting effect of insulated-cable arc faults, (3) cable impedance in an iron conduit, and (4) impedance of low-voltage switchgear circuit assemblies, derived from tests at short-circuit currents in circuits with open-circuit line-to-line voltages of 208-600 volts at 60 cycles. The currents ranged from less than 10,000 amperes to values as high as 100,000 amperes rms in some cases. The new data dispel several illusions with respect to accidental faults in low-voltage bus structures and other low-voltage gear. Contrary to inferences frequently drawn from previously published data, the paper shows that (a). Faults in the typical low-voltage bus structures tested are not self-clearing. (b). Fault arcs do not show the drastic current-limiting effect which they are frequently assumed to exert upon short-circuit currents. Instances are shown where actual fault currents reach 100 per cent of the rms symmetrical values calculated for bolted faults. This study shows a self-clearing tendency for representative types of accidental faults in cable, but it was found that a large current-limiting action prior to current interruption cannot be depended on. The new data, supplementing existing impedance data, definitely indicate the possibility of reasonably accurate calculation of short-circuit currents in low-voltage circuits."
"The first of the two methods discussed in this paper is particularly applicable to a-c slip-ring motors. Seriesresonance circuits responsive to the variation in rotor frequency with motor speed provide a means of accelerating the motor automatically, while a series-parallel resonance circuit similarly connected to the rotor can be used to protect the motor when ``plugged'' or suddenly reversed. The sensitive response of the latter circuit within a narrow frequency range makes possible its use as a ``zero-speed'' switch. The second method has a more general application in that it can be used with any type of motor. A neon tube timing circuit measures the time intervals between the closures of accelerating contactors. One ``timer'' can be used for all steps of acceleration, with or without separate time adjustment. For a-c motor control, the introduction of a current transformer and a rectifying circuit makes possible the obtaining of time intervals which are increased automatically with increase in motor load. Such a scheme is often referred to as ``time-current'' acceleration in order to distinguish it from ``constant-time'' acceleration where the time interval is independent of the load."
"In all domestic motored appliances, there are certain general design factors to which more detailed design factors are related, depending upon the appliance involved. In this paper the various design factors are enumerated and explained in a way which it is hoped will be of assistance to the many thousands of engineers engaged in the design of motored appliances. Curves show typical speed-torque characteristics of motors used to drive various types of appliances. Tables show the types of motors used with different types of appliances and the principal factors causing noise. General design factors involved in motored appliances are discussed as a group."
"It is the purpose of this paper to present a rigorous analysis and description of the phenomenon which takes place in an interrupting device during the interval between the parting of the contacts and the current zero at which interruption takes place. It is to be shown that the events which take place during the arcing period prior to interruption play an important part in setting the stage for the drama of circuit interruption. This analysis has a counterpart in the phenomenon which takes place immediately following interruption; namely, circuit recovery characteristics. The knowledge of this latter phenomenon has played a dynamic role during the past ten years. With its aid, oil circuit breaker designs have advanced to the point where their excellent performance has set the high present-day standards of reliable circuit interruption.2,3 The knowledge of recovery rates4,5 laid the foundation for the displacement principle;6 namely, oil velocity multiplied by the oil dielectric (impulse) strength is equal to the maximum permissible rate of rise of recovery voltage. The stage today, however, is being set for interruptions with devices which employ air as the medium of interruption and insulation.7,8 New roles are being created. Recovery voltage, although just as important, is being assigned an easier part."
"Operating records of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., revealed the existence of irregular fluctuations in the loads on generating stations and tie feeders. Tests were conducted to determine the response of parts of the system to changes in load, voltage, and frequency. By analyzing the test results to show the relation between these three quantities under various operating conditions, it was possible to establish the origin of the load swings, as well as to determine their magnitude, duration, and recurrence. Three general types of load swings were observed: small synchronizing power oscillations, short-time swings caused by fluctuating railroad loads, and long-time swings produced by the unco-ordinated adjustments of station loads. These swings are not initiated or sustained by the turbine governors. The synchronizing power oscillations and the short-time swings do not affect system operation, but the long-time swings do affect the loading of the tie feeders and the operation of boiler equipment. It is expected, however, that the greater appreciation of the problem derived from the tests, plus the installation of a common frequency indicator in all stations, will enable the operators to reduce the long-time load swings."
"Considerable attention has been focused on the subject of load swings, turbine generator governing, and stability not only when operating a system alone but when interconnected with other systems. At a subcommittee meeting of the power generation committee, two assignments were made: One to crystallize the problem and the other to outline the desirable functional characteristics of a governing system. This memorandum, dealing with the former, has been prepared based on answers to a questionnaire submitted to a representative group of operating companies. The response to the questionnaire was excellent, practically all of the operating companies to whom it was sent having made replies. The report is divided into two parts. Part I presents the questionnaire and the replies. Part II gives a discussion of the elements of the problem of governing on power systems. Conclusions: 1. The general conclusions seem to indicate that there are no outstanding deficiencies in the modern governing systems. 2. It seems likely that full advantage is not being utilized of the inherent capabilities of many existing governors. 3. The full potentialities of governors often are not utilized until some fluctuating load or unusual incident arises which requires that action be taken. 4. A test program is required to disclose maintenance defects, wrong adjustments, and improper operation. 5. The limitations of the speed governor for interconnected operation must be recognized, and means provided to supplement the governor when close control of frequency or tie-line load is required."
"This report presents a brief history of the subject of protection of power transformers against lightning overvoltages. The nature and magnitude of these overvoltages are described pointing out which ones are the most dangerous to apparatus. The impulse voltage characteristics of transformers are given including volt-time curves, effects of (a) steepness of applied wave, (b) polarity of wave, and (c) mechanical deterioration of insulation in old transformers. Similarly, impulse voltage characteristics of lightning arresters, rod gaps, and protector tubes are shown, thereby enabling the user to intelligently apply these devices for the protection of transformers. The question of how to obtain various degrees of protection is fully discussed, ranging from the most effective protection to partial protection by using one or more of the following schemes: (a). Direct-stroke protection and lightning arresters installed. (b). Lightning arresters installed but direct-stroke protection omitted. (c). Direct-stroke protection and station gaps installed, but lightning arresters omitted. (d). Station gaps installed with neither direct-stroke protection nor lightning arresters. Finally the proper selection of surge protective devices is discussed for the purpose of enabling the user to select the protective scheme that best suits his requirements."
"The present-day demand and imperative need for higher speeds and increased outputs in every phase of industry and transportation have emphasized the tremendous importance of realizing the maximum utilization of the service capacities built into electrically-driven equipments. In a great majority of cases the predominant limitation in this direction lies in the heating capacity of the electric motors and this paper has been written to show a general method of ``mapping'' the heating performance of electric motors over their entire speed-torque operating range so that their maximum performance may be judiciously realized within their heating limitations. Many excellent papers have described methods by which, starting from design constants and losses, the temperature rise of a machine can be calculated for a given load condition. Also some of the earlier papers1 have brought out the fundamentally simple functions which govern the temperature rise of electrical machinery. In this paper, the authors show how, starting from the results of a small number of tests, it is possible to build up a complete temperature rise map of the motor applicable to any conceivable speed and torque service condition. This method was worked out in detail for the single-phase, commutator-type, traction motors which equip the modern a-c locomotives and the enlightened interest of the Pennsylvania Railroad led to the preparation by two electrical manufacturers of an unusually complete analysis of traction motor performance."
"The Rural Electrification Administration and Bell System have been carrying on co-operative studies of the inductive co-ordination of REA distribution systems and rural telephone circuits since 1939. The results of these studies have indicated that the two systems can be satisfactorily co-ordinated when (a) the influence of the power system is controlled, (b) the separation in unavoidable exposures is adequate and reasonably uniform, and (c) the susceptiveness of the exposed telephone circuits is limited by care in design and maintenance. The more important factors controlling the influence of REA distribution systems and the susceptiveness of rural telephone circuits are reviewed and certain remedial measures applicable to the power system are discussed, with illustrations from the recent joint field work. Recent trends in the design of rural telephone circuits which result in improved susceptiveness are mentioned."
"With conventional types of switchgear and customary methods of circuit operation, power arc-overs resulting from transient faults on overhead primary lines cause unnecessary burndown of conductors and undesired operation of fuses. The majority of faults on overhead distribution circuits are of transient nature. Factual data concerning arcing characteristics of covered and bare conductors were established by tests conducted under field conditions. They show that to prevent burndown of covered wire and to hold the arc damage within admissible limits, power arcs must be limited to one-half- to two-cycle (sixty-cycle basis) over-all time, depending upon size of conductor and arc current. Bare conductors are less liable to serious arc damage owing to the phenomenon of arc travel and to the self-extinguishing characteristics of arcs on such conductors. However, the duration of traveling arcs is sufficient to cause undesired operation of sectionalizing fuses unless the line is rapidly de-energized. Speeds of operation required to protect covered wire are also ample to assure against operation of fuses on transient faults. New switching devices capable of meeting the required one-half- to two-cycle initial circuit clearance have been developed as part of this project. They also provide for automatic reclosure and a sequence of timedelay openings and reclosures before lockout. Simplicity of construction, ease of installation, and self-actuating principles which dispense with auxiliary power requirements, make investment sufficiently low to bring these devices within the realm of practicability for low revenue distribution circuits as well as the more important distribution circuits."
"In March l940, a 25-ton Heroult 3-phase electric arc furnace using a 10,000-kva 1.5 volts (115-volt base) for the 66-kv system with fluctuations from 3 per hour up to 15 per minute. Precautions were taken in the design of the furnace transformer to include separate reactance to reduce the load swings. Subsequently, it was found that this additional reactance was not eneded and it was removed, thereby improving the operation of the furnace. The load swings and accompaning voltage changes, after disconnecting the reactance, due to the operation of the first furnace, slightly exceeded the Duquesne Light Company standards. However, no complaints have been received from adjacent customers nor have any difficulties arisen from excessive operation of 4-kv distribution regulators, operation of the power stations, or interconnections."
"Within recent years a new electromechanical transmission known as the \"Electrogear\" has been developed for use in gas and Diesel engine cars of all types including busses, trucks, rail cars, and track-laying vehicles. The paper describes the principle of its operation which is basically a differential action between direct mechanical power transmission and a generator-motor system, interlinked by means of a permanently engaged planetary differential gear. At the start, both the electrical and mechanical power flows are in the same direction, giving high torque multiplication. As the vehicle speed increases, the electrical power flow diminishes, goes through zero, and finally reverses its direction, leading to high speed, low torque operation with \"overdrive.\" The torque ratio is thus continuously variable as in the gas-electric drive, and is controlled independent of road conditions by a small auxiliary generator which acts as the \"brain\" of the system. The design and installation of one specific Bus Electrogear is given in detail in order to illustrate the application to public transportation, though various other models have been built and demonstrated. Extensive test data graphically describe the superior performance of this new vehicle drive which combines the ideal flexibility and low maintenance cost of the gas-electric drive with the economy of the standard gearshift transmission. Actual operation requires only accelerator and brake, both acted on conventionally by means of the conventional pedals, and a selector switch with engine starting, forward and reverse positions."
"1. Cellulose insulation will deteriorate in mechanical strength at a rate which increases with the increasing temperature of exposure. Deterioration will occur in the absence of an oxidizing atmosphere. 2. The rate of cellulose deterioration at a fixed temperature varies as the heat treatment is continued. 3. The mechanical deterioration of cellulose insulation at elevated temperature is the result of oxidation and pyrochemical decomposition. 4. When heated, cellulose passes through a ``stable period'' during which the mechanical properties are maintained. The presence of oxygen is chiefly effective in reducing the duration of this ``stable period.'' 5. The single effect of oxidation is restricted to the initial periods of treatment at temperatures lower than approximately 120 degrees centigrade. At higher temperatures, pyrochemical decomposition occurs. Even in the most favored temperature range, the effect of cellulose oxidation merges into the effects produced by pyrochemical decomposition as the deterioration progresses. 6. Heated under conditions which favor oxidation or pyrochemical change, the unimpregnated cellulose insulation deteriorates more rapidly than the same insulation after oil treatment and immersion."
"The paper makes a comparison of permissible temperature rises for short-time and intermittent ratings and permissible rises for continuous ratings. It suggests methods for the application of short-time ratings to various typical classes of intermittent load conditions and presents for each of these classes ways and means for properly co-ordinating the ratings of the major devices (motors and generators) and the ratings of the auxiliary devices and conductors."
"On the basis of classification of impulse wave shape, the paper shows that impulse spark-over characteristics of electrodes with nonuniform fields cannot be represented by single volt-time curves but must be represented by volt-time areas of considerable extent. This classification explains the large difference obtained by various laboratories when investigating sparkover between one and five micro- seconds. The effect of impulse generator discharge circuits in producing these differences is explained. The necessity of insulation co-ordination on the basis of volt-time areas is pointed out."
"This paper describes the most recent of a series of studies on the life of watt-hour meter bearing materials. It covers an investigation of the effect of jewel crystalline axis orientation upon jewel wear. Lifetime stability of meter calibration is a function of bearing wear. A study of the wear (after several years' service) of the sapphire jewel cups of meters in relation to crystalline orientation confirms predictions of another investigator; and a corroborative theory, based upon the physics of crystals, is presented."
"The purpose of this paper is to provide the engineer with co-ordinated information and data regarding the dielectric breakdown of glass which will permit him to apply this insulating material more effectively for high dielectric strength. In the discussion of the subject, particular attention has been paid to \"edge effects\" and other factors which cause wide variations in breakdown voltages-variations which are responsible for many of the seeming inconsistencies found in published results on the dielectric failure of glass and other materials. The author has concluded that it is possible to make a reasonable approximation of the breakdown voltage of glass, if the conditions of the test or of the application can be sufficiently well determined. The characteristic breakdown curves of this paper do not represent the results of any one series of tests, but are rationalized from data selected from many sources, including unpublished tests. The data curves included refer mainly to Pyrex* glass, but corresponding data have also been included on electrical porcelain because of the interesting comparisons shown."
"This is the first of a series of papers explaining the theory and principles of operation of the brush-shifting a-c motor. Operation of the machine, either as a motor or a generator, is explained on the basis of the superposition of currents. The theory of the primary current loci is developed for both high-speed and low-speed adjustments. A method of determining the primary current loci from no-load measurements is presented. Experimental data have shown the theory to be valid."
"In the preceding paper1 of this series, a simple theory underlying the circle diagram of the brush-shifting a-c motor was presented. It is the purpose of this paper to advance this theory, and to show how it can be used to determine such quantities as efficiency, current, torque, and speed for different conditions of operation. The procedures outlined and explained have been checked experimentally, and found to be accurate for both high-speed and low-speed adjustments."
"Although the three-voltmeter method for measuring the relative magnitude and phase angle of two voltages or currents is well known, the use of vacuum tube voltmeters, which draw negligible amounts of energy from the circuit, permits the use of the method for purposes which previously have not been considered. A further improvement of the scheme by balancing out one component of either voltage or current adds to the accuracy of the results. The method is considered for two purposes, namely: the measurement of the capacitance and power factor of imperfect condensers, and the measurement of the ratio and phase angle of current transformers."
"A device is described which records the ampere-squared seconds in an electrical impulse of less than 0.5-second duration. A number of these have been used in resistance-welding applications to monitor the electrical variables and have contributed greatly to the uniformity of welds. The problem of indicating 1/60-second impulses at the rate of 100 a minute with the same device that will correctly integrate a half-second impulse has been solved by the use of a moving element with an infinitely long natural period, combined with a supplementary circuit which returns the element to the starting position in a fraction of a second."
"The paper gives a general survey of the ability of glass bulb mercury-arc rectifiers to satisfactorily meet the stringent requirements of traction service. The subject matter is arranged on the assumption that engineers of the United States and Canada are not familiar with the use of this type of equipment for traction work, and the author has approached the subject from the point of view of an engineer considering the merits of different types of conversion equipment. Major features pertaining directly to glass bulbs are discussed such as plant capacity, maintenance, efficiency, robustness, etc., but no attempt is made to include wider problems common to mercury-arc rectifiers as a class, namely frequency changing, inversion, harmonics, etc."
"The principal design features, along with several typical applications, were described for a new form of mercury rheostatic element which has been designated as the ``Mercurystat''. The unique features of the Mercurystat are its large number of hermetically sealed mercury contacts and the small force and travel required for their operation. It was shown that relatively large amounts of power can be controlled by the Mercurystat and because of the small input power required for its operation, power amplification in the order of 100,000 can be obtained. The performance of this new device along with its simplicity and absence of wearing moving parts should find many applications for it in automatic control systems."
"City transit motors operated today include many new mechanical and electrical features. Modern vehicles differ greatly from those of a decade ago and propulsion motors contributed substantially to the advances achieved. Meeting presentday needs has required designs for 300 and 600 volts involving extensive use of new materials, application to new types of drive, and suitability for dynamic braking. Mechanical design includes unusual developments in frame construction, method of mounting, lead arrangement, ventilation, housings, and bearings. Compactness has led to ingenuity in brushholder arrangement to secure accessibility. Armatures require judicious selection of materials for shafts, cores, and commutators as well as special seasoning and balancing procedure. Electrical design betterments have been introduced in armature slots, armature coils, field coils, and insulation. Provision for quietness and good commutation are also salient points. The new designs have resulted in high electrical and weight efficiency for series motors used on Diesel-electric busses, trolley coaches, and street cars in comparison with old type machines. Excellent commutation has produced outstanding stability at rapid accelerating and dynamic braking rates. Vehicle performance is exceptional with respect to safety, operating efficiency, available selection of accelerating and braking rates, and the broad speed range of the dynamic brake."
"1. A method has been developed for photographing repeating traces on a cathode-ray tube which measure current in liquid and solid dielectrics with slowly increasing unidirectional voltage up to within two milliseconds of breakdown. The range of current sensitivity is from 10-8 amperes up. Current values at time intervals closer to the breakdown point could be measured by increasing the speed of motion of the film and decreasing the sweep interval. The probability of catching fast transient of the order of one microsecond duration is only 2 per cent (ratio of sweep time to sweep interval). 2. In liquids, the evidence so far obtained leads to the tentative conclusion that the final breakdown current increases from a substantially steady value to failure in fractions of a microsecond. This indicates that the final breakdown mechanism is electronic. 3. In liquids, it appears also that the pre- breakdown ionic current may be unrelated to the breakdown electronic current since the breakdown gradient appears to be affected more by the electrode surface conditions than by the ionic conductivity of the liquid. 4. In polystyrene and polyvinyl formal only one record was obtained showing any pre-breakdown current greater than 10-8 amperes up to within two milliseconds of failure at breakdown gradients of the order of 2.5 × 106 volts per centimeter."
"The paper describes the installation and operating results of a bus protective scheme, which uses a combination of high-speed directional ground relays on all sources of fault current and high-speed plunger type blocking relays on all outgoing circuits. The scheme described is independent of the ratios and characteristics of the current transformers."
"While frequency meters of prior type admirably serve the purpose for which they are intended, their construction has been such as to necessitate the use of an external reactor. This external reactor is in most cases not objectionable, but for certain applications, where space is at a premium, a self-contained instrument is preferable. This paper describes a frequency meter in which the external reactor has been eliminated by using an iron-core cross-coil instrument, the iron core serving the purpose of the normally external inductance, at the same time shortening the high reluctance air gap necessary for the moving coils."
"It has been shown that the problem of protecting permanent magnets from transient magnetic fields has been solved in a unique manner by the use of a new high- speed copper-plating process to apply a high conductivity copper shield over the conventional forged steel magnets. Desirable features of this solution are complete interchangeability between unshielded and shielded magnets; forged steel material is used, which is fairly easy to obtain and on which unlimited operating experience is available."
"Lightning to the Empire State Building in New York City has been under investigation since 1935. Boys camera photographs of 62 strokes have been taken and 99 oscillograms. Twenty of these were taken simultaneously with photographs of the same stroke. Upward step leaders were discovered and continuing strokes were shown to be in the nature of a direct current arc. A brief résumé of the more important results up to the end of the 1937 season is given. The paper is chiefly concerned with the oscillographic results of the 1938 and 1940 seasons. The low speed oscillograph in the Empire State Building recorded 17 of the 20 strokes to the building while the high speed oscillograph recorded 41 current peaks in 13 strokes. 1. Of 49 strokes recorded oscillographically during the years 1937-40, no stroke has been entirely positive although 41, or 84 per cent, were entirely negative. The first recorded current peak in stroke 13 was positive and had a crest current of 58,000 amperes. 2. Fifty per cent of the 49 strokes had charge of 25 coulombs or more, the maximum charge measured being 164 coulombs. These values are for the total stroke and not for current peaks. 3. Ninety-one per cent of all strokes recorded to the Empire State Building are classified as continuing, i.e. had a low current component. 4."
"The development of radio broadcasting in Canada has been very rapid and there are now 85 broadcast transmitters in daily operation. All broadcasting is under the control of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, an independent Government corporation, which in addition to its regulatory functions operates a coast to coast network connecting together, for a nationwide service, its own ten modern stations with almost half of the privately owned transmitters. It cannot therefore be said that radio in Canada is owned and operated by the Government as the CBC is independent and free to apply its revenues derived from licenses and commercial operation, in the best interests of its radio audience. The Canadian system is one of cooperation between a semipublic service and private ownership. Parliamentary enquiries have always found it the best suited to Canada's needs considering its vast area and relatively sparse population."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Considering commercial aviation in relation to national defense now, and its own potentialities in the future, a pioneer aircraft builder and aviator and well-known aeronautical consultant here outlines a program for the development of cargo transportation by air. Because of the immediate and vital importance of the subject, the conclusions of this expert are particularly significant; comments are invited."
"With increasing use of electric fences, insect screens, and other devices having exposed electrodes, information on the magnitude of electric current that is safe for human beings becomes of great importance in determining regulations and safety codes. The authors report the results of experiments showing the maximum 60-cycle alternating current and direct current which the average man can withstand with reasonable safety."
"Some of the problems that beset utility operating and holding companies when war is in progress are described by an official of a European company with subsidiaries both inside and outside the war area; he also discusses the long-range planning which enable such companies to continue to function after the outbreak of war."
"THE first commercial installation of coaxial cable in the Bell System now is being completed between Stevens Point, Wis., and Minneapolis, Minn., a distance of approximately 200 miles. As may be seen from the accompanying illustrations, the cable contains four coaxial units in the center and an outer layer of 18 19-gauge quads. In the central space formed by the coaxial units are two 22-gauge pairs, and in each interstice between coaxial units is a hybrid quad made up of one pair of 19- gauge and one pair of 22-gauge wires; these are required for auxiliary service. The experimental cable installed several years ago between New York, N. Y., and Philadelphia, Pa. (EE Jan. '57, p. 4–7) contained two coaxial units and four pairs of 19-gauge wires."
"For many years magnetic storms at irregular intervals have been known to interfere seriously with the operation of electrical communication systems. The storm of March 24, 1940, however, considered to be possibly the greatest magnetic storm that has ever been recorded, not only interfered widely with communication systems, but also caused numerous interruptions in electric-power systems. The latter experiences are reviewed here, followed by some notes on current theories concerning magnetic storms."
"A survey of the recent developments that have given resistance welding its present importance in high-speed industrial production"
"The various methods of solving three-phase unbalanced wye circuits, usually found separately in engineering literature, have been brought together here; each is illustrated by a specific example"
"Culminating 50 years of effort on the part of the people of Colorado to secure additional irrigation water for northeastern Colorado, the Colorado Big Thompson project entered the construction stage in December 1938. A Bureau of Reclamation project, the general plan of the complete development from the standpoint of future operation, will extend from the vicinity of Kremmling on the western slope of the Continental Divide to Julesburg and the state line on the eastern slope."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The following news items, relating to various aspects of national defense activity, are grouped here for convenience."
"The Perkin Medal, awarded annually for valuable work in applied chemistry, by the American section of the Society of Chemical Industry, has been conferred for 1940 upon Doctor J.V.N. Dorr, president, The Dorr Company, Inc. The award was made January 10, 1941, at a joint meeting with the American Chemical Society, American Institute of Chemical Engineers, Electrochemical Society, and Societe de Chimie Industrielle. Doctor Dorris a native (1872) of Newark, NJ, USA, and received the degree of bachelor of science from Rutgers University in 1894. He also has been awarded honorary degrees from that and other institutions. He spent some time as chemical experimenter in the laboratories of Thomas A. Edison, and was employed as assayer and chemist by several mining companies, before developing the group of important industrial inventions for which he is known."
"Current interest in all matters connected with aviation has prompted the Engineering Societies Library to prepare a list of references on the design and construction of airplane hangars. The list includes 100 articles selected from those published during the years 1928-40 in leading domestic and foreign periodicals, and contains material on both steel and reinforce dconcrete structures."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"The pole-top method of artificial respiration was devised by E. W. Oesterreich1 of the Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa., to give prompt aid in case of electric shock occurring while men are working on poles of power lines. When a worker receives an electric shock while working on a pole minutes elapse before he can be lowered to the ground and resuscitation started by the prone-pressure method. In the field, the elapsed time is seldom less than five minutes2 and in many cases it is considerably longer. The pole-top method of resuscitation was developed to reduce this period. Tests have shown that an operator can reach a man working alone on a pole and start squeezing his abdomen within approximately one minute.2 If there are two men on the pole and one receives a shock the elapsed time before the first pressure is applied is much shorter. While an operator is applying the pole-top method, other members of the line crew make preparation for lowering the victim to the ground where the prone-pressure method may be applied, should it prove necessary."
"Values of arc-over voltages for point gaps in air have often been considered rather inconsistent and difficult to reproduce with reasonable accuracy. Accordingly, a study was made to determine, first, if certain types of electrodes might give more consistent results than others and, if so, under what conditions, and, second, whether or not it would be possible to derive a formula which would take into account disturbing factors such as humidity. The results of this study are summarized in this paper, which, the author hopes, may be a small contribution toward a better understanding of arc-over phenomena."
"It is well known that the voltage and current wave shapes of transmission and distribution circuits are distorted more or less from a true fundamental-frequency sinusoid. Several years ago extensive tests were conducted, measuring the wave shapes for different types and voltages of circuits.1 There were however no definite conclusions drawn concerning the origin or improvement of these wave distortions."
"The purpose of an elevator buffer is to stop the elevator in event it reaches the bottom of its hoistway out of control. To prevent injury to its occupants, the rate of stopping must not exceed 2 1/2 times gravity or about 80 feet per second per second for more than 1/25 second. The tests on a buffer should be such that the velocity at which the elevator strikes the buffer and the rate of deceleration at every point in the piston stroke may be determined. If the buffer contains oil, it is important for the designer to know also the oil pressure at every point in the stroke."
"In the manufacture of electrical machines it is always desirable to calculate the performance of a machine before its construction to determine whether or not it will meet the specifications. The usual methods of predetermining performance involve the use of either a circle diagram or an equivalent circuit and since either of these methods involves considerable work there are always possibilities that errors may be introduced by slight mistakes in construction, measuring, etc. It was believed that if a method could be developed by which the quantities necessary for performance calculation could be given in the form of a set of curves considerable time might be saved provided that the accuracy so obtained was of the same degree as that given by other methods."
"Analyses of the capacitor motor operation date back to the 1920's, a pioneer effort being that of Brüderlin1 in Europe. Work by Bloch,2 Biermanns,3 and others antedates that of Morrill4 in this country whose analysis has been widely used. All of these have been based on the double revolving field theory, being extensions of that theory to the usual single-phase induction motor."
"The suggested requirements for radio-free pin-type, switch and bus, and suspension insulators, if acceptable, indicate and justify from a factory testing and production viewpoint, the following conclusions as regards existing standard designs: 1. For distribution voltages up to 4,400 or even 5,500 volts, the small one-piece pin-type insulators used require no “radio-proofing”, even on solidly grounded pins. 2. If there is 6 to 12 inches of crossarm in series with small one-piece pin-type insulators on low-voltage distribution lines up to 13 kv, no “radio-proofing” is needed on the insulators. 3. Standard untreated pin-type insulators used on 17 to 69-kv distribution and transmission lines have radio noise-influence voltages in the order of several thousand microvolts at a test potential about ten per cent above the usual line-to-ground voltages. “Radio-proofed” pin-type insulators, readily meeting reasonable requirements for freedom from radio interference, are available for use on lines in this voltage range. 4. Standard cemented pin-and-cap switch and bus insulators up to the 69-kv rating, with the exception of the 66-S-class, readily meet the suggested requirements for freedom from radio interference without any special “radio-proofing” treatment; they are inherently quiet. 5. Standard switch and bus insulators for the 66-S-class and the 115-kv and higher-voltage classes may require “radio-proofing” or other precautions to meet the suggested abnormally low requirements. These insulators with slight changes can be made to meet these requirements readily. 6. Regular cemented pin-and-cap suspension insulators of modern manufacture readily meet the suggested requirements for freedom from radio interference without any form of “radio-proofing” they are inherently quiet."
"A method of calculating the performance of repulsion motors is developed for the purpose of predetermining the torques and currents, especially for repulsion-start, induction-run motors during the starting period. The method is based on the cross-field theory presented by H. R. West. It is developed along similar lines to the single-phase calculation method presented by C. G. Veinott,2 and is intended for use in connection with it. The paper presents also the results of investigation showing the effects of varying the several motor constants, and a method of determining the effect of brush resistance."
"A method is presented whereby the equations of capacitor motor performance calculation as developed by Mr. W. J. Morrill,1 are arranged in a calculation sheet or form for use in routine design work."
"Increasing concentration of power combined with the desire for more compact switchgear assemblies has created a demand for small, totally enclosed, high-interrupting-capacity fuses suitable for potential and operating transformer protection. The current-limiting fuse meets these requirements for it is inherently a high-interrupting-capacity fuse of low current rating and can be totally enclosed in a small space. The theory and construction of previous current-limiting fuses are briefly described. The theory and construction of a new current-limiting fuse is given. The new fuse is simple in theory and construction. Its fundamental elements can be separated, studied, and tested, making it possible to predict an unusual degree of reliability and freedom from voltage surges. Test results confirm the reliability, high interrupting capacity, and freedom from voltage surges of the new fuse."
"The advantages obtained from the application of electrical methods of control to all classes of machinery, suggested to inventors the idea of regulating the speed of prime movers by electrical means. Frequent attempts have been made to accomplish this result. Many of these governors were very ingenious, but for one reason or another they never came into general use."
"The oil circuit breaker has been for many years the standard type of circuit interrupter for heavy-duty powerhouse service. Since the introduction of modern arc-rupturing devices into these circuit breakers, the occurrence of serious trouble attributable directly to oil switch-gear failure has been rare. However, the appearance on the market of various types of oilless circuit breakers of considerable interrupting capacity has encouraged the idea that the complete elimination of oil in power house switchgear may be both desirable and practicable. Further experimental investigation and development activity on the part of switchgear manufacturers seems to indicate that currents of 60,000 amperes or more at 13,200 volts can be interrupted satisfactorily in circuit breakers using either air or water as the arc-quenching medium. This paper describes the construction and operating characteristics of a high-power water circuit breaker."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"With the foresight that comes of a career closely packed with varied experience, with the courage that comes of purposeful study and relative youth, and with the forcefulness that comes of conviction and determination, Mr. Wilson presents here his realistic survey of a situation that is of vital significance to every American — in fact, to all democracy. This thought-provoking challenge, presented as a basis for discussion and action, comes from one of America's youngest and foremost industrial leaders — a man who came to the top “the hard way” in the highly competitive American free-enterprise system for which he here seeks a means of preservation. The “Letters to the Editor” columns are open for discussion of this timely topic."
"“In recognition of his distinction as scientist and inventor, and for his outstanding original contributions to the theory and application of electric circuits and apparatus” the Edison Medal for 1940 was presented to Doctor George Ashley Campbell, retired research engineer of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, at a special session of the AIEE 1941 winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 29. Highest award of the Institute, the Edison Medal is presented annually to a resident in the United States of America or its dependancies, or of the Dominion of Canada, for “meritorious achievement in electrical science or electrical engineering or the electrical arts.” At the presentation ceremonies, L. W. W. Morrow (A '13, F '25) chairman of the Edison Medal committee, briefly outlined the history of the award; and AIEE Past President Frank B. Jewett (A '03, F '12) spoke on the contributions and personal qualifications of the medalist who has been his “associate and friend for more than 35 years.” Following Doctor Jewett's remarks, AIEE President R. W. Sorensen (AW, F '19) who presided over the ceremonies, presented the medal and certificate to Doctor Campbell. Essentially full text of Doctor Jewett's address and Doctor Campbell's response follow on this and succeeding pages."
"The question as to how old the application of science to industry is I do not propose to ask, for attempting to answer it might prove tantamount to trying to pick a date so early that no one else could think of an earlier one. But while the date of the first application of what we might reasonably denote as scientific knowledge to practical affairs is undoubtedly lost in antiquity, the date at which industry first realized the practical importance of scientific knowledge sufficiently clearly to go out in active search of such knowledge, is surprisingly close at hand. In fact, I think I should be committing no great exaggeration if I said that it falls within one man's active life, and that man our 1940 Edison Medalist. I do not say that American industry was the first industry to organize itself for the discovery and application of such knowledge as would be particularly useful in its chosen field; certainly I do not wish to imply that the laboratory which George Campbell joined back in 1897 was the first industrial laboratory of applied science. But it was certainly one of the very earliest, and I have no fear of being contradicted when I say that the venture upon which he embarked was to carry him into what was then an utterly uncharted sea. Indeed, to most people at the time, it appeared not only uncharted, but decidedly threatening. To many it was absurd and some even were frankly hostile — just why I never knew."
"This report of the joint committee∗ on co-ordination of insulation of AIEE, Edison Electric Institute, and National Electrical Manufacturers Association is the culmination of more than ten years1 study to establish basic insulation co-ordination. It specifies basic impulse insulation levels in terms of a withstand voltage for a specified test wave. These values are to be the bases for various AIEE and other standards now in course of development or revision. Culminating over ten years' work on insulation co-ordination during which the fundamentals of making impulse tests were investigated and standardized, as well as basic levels set up and provisionally tried out, the joint AIEE-EEI-NEMA committee on insulation co-ordination at its meeting held in November, 1940, agreed unanimously to adopt as standard the series of basic impulse insulation levels given in table I. These are the same values given in the paper presented at the AIEE winter convention, January 22–26, 1940, “Basic Impulse Insulation Levels” by Sporn and Powel (AIEE Trans., Oct. '40 Sec., p. 596–8). The purpose of this present report is to call attention to the fact that these basic levels have now been adopted and to the general conditions under which they apply. The general principle of insulation co-ordination requires a reasonable margin between the voltage level held by the protective device (the protectable level) and the various basic levels themselves to insure that adequate protection is provided. The values in table I have been set up on this basis. It is felt that the values so set up are on a sound basis and that they are most likely to stand without change for a long time. It is the opinion of the committee, therefore, that the various technical committees working on standards can adopt the values given in this report for standardization purposes, and it is further believed that the use of these values will result in ultimate over-all benefit to the industry."
"A method of controlling aircraft through electromagnetic radiations is described here in which the controls are preset and the aircraft is flown and landed on a predetermined course in any kind of weather conditions. The operation is entirely automatic and the presence of a control operator is not needed. The solution of this problem was made possible by the development of two novel aids for fog navigation and fog landing, namely, the aircraft radio compass and the ultrahigh-frequency marker beacon. The problem of remote control of aircraft was initiated at the end of World War I. Due to lack of stability of the airplanes and the primitive status of aircraft radio at that time, the first attempts were not very successful. In the last few years, however, the great advance in both aviation and aircraft radio made the solution of this seemingly difficult problem quite simple. Two methods have been successfully developed. In the first method the control operator sends into space a definite number of electromagnetic impulses using an ordinary telephone dial. It is obvious that if the operator is on the ground the radius of action of such a device is quite limited, because the airplane must remain in full sight of the operator all the time. In order to increase the range of this aerial torpedo, it is necessary for the control operator to follow it in another airplane. It is possible, however, to navigate a pilotless airplane over a predetermined course of considerable span, and to land it safely at the end of its journey. This operation can be rendered entirely automatic; it can be performed in any weather conditions and without the presence of a control operator."
"America's program of National Defense is the prevailing topic of conversation and discussion encountered by your president in his travels about the country in the discharge of his duties of office. Last fall the question most commonly encountered was: “What is being done in other parts of the United States for National Defense?” Currently the prevailing question is: “What are we going to do to get enough engineers to assure maintaining the production required in the Defense program?” We are now enormously overdrawing our available supply of engineers. Not only are all available experienced engineers now employed, but this spring's graduating engineering students are practically all engaged for positions in industry or for Army or Navy engineering work immediately upon graduation. In fact, if every one of the 150-odd engineering colleges had senior classes triple the size of those that will graduate this spring, the present demand indicates that a shortage of qualified engineers and designers still would exist for the work the nation now has before it. Engineers are not kept in storage for use in emergencies like those now current. The Defense program now in progress indicates that the 1942 demand for engineers will be as great as if not greater than the one now facing us. A continuing supply of high-quality men for engineering work must be available without interruption both for civil and military Defense operations. These engineers and other technical experts cannot be produced quickly — by legislation or mere wishful thinking — but become qualified for the rigorous requirements of their work only through a long period of educational preparation followed by years of practical experience. The more precise the work required, the more specific and thorough must be the training of the engineer to do that work."
"Marning his listeners that the American free-enterprise system — in fact the whole democratic way of life — is in imminent peril of being lost in one way or another through the present world-wide upheaval, Charles E. Wilson, president of the General Electric Company, speaking January 29, at the 1941 AIEE winter convention, urged prompt, thoughtful, and courageous action by American industry and all liberty-loving individuals. Mr. Wilson urged realistically that the mirage of the hoped-for “return of normal times” be discarded as a goal, before it has led its self-blinded followers too far, and he challengingly presented as a basis for discussion a proposed program of step-by-step action for a more probable future. The full text of this thought-provoking address appears elsewhere in this issue."
"The National Television System Committee, at a conference on January 27, 1941, submitted to the Federal Communications Commission 22 proposed standards for commercial operation of television. Following the conference the FCC announced that a formal public hearing on television would be held March 20, 1941, “for the purpose of considering the various engineering standards that have been suggested, and also to determine when television broadcasting should be placed on a commercial basis.” The committee was created during the summer of 1940 by the television industry in collaboration with the FCC, to seek solutions of the crucial technical problems of television. Its members are the following:"
"This paper describes a new electrical control system with which a standard power-system governor may be made sensitive to system load as well as frequency. A proposed scheme of application is presented which is believed to permit electrical control of a standard governor instead of mechanical control, without any sacrifice of reliability. The frequency of a power system is governed by controlling the power input to the prime movers of the system. Consider, for example, a typical power system in which one hydraulically-driven synchronous generator is governing the system frequency. Since the remaining generating units are operating at constant loads, the power output of the governing unit must be regulated so that the unit will assume any variations of load on the system. Simultaneously, this unit is controlled to hold the system frequency at a constant value. Figure 1 is the schematic representation of a typical governing system of a hydro-electric generating unit. The power output of this unit is regulated by varying the opening of the needle valve to control the flow of water through the turbine This valve is operated by oil pressure through a control valve and piston, as shown in figure 2. The speed-sensitive element in this governing system is a centrifugal governor, driven from the turbine shaft, which operates the control valve by pivoting the beam about point P."
"A new instrument has been developed which will automatically read and record in numerals, at predetermined time intervals, the ampere loading on 50 different electric circuits. This instrument also adds the readings on groups of circuits and prints these totals in columns beside the ampere load readings. The paper outlines briefly the reasons for developing such a device. The paper also describes, with the aid of schematic diagrams, the process by which the instrument obtains and prints all the measurements and totals on a single “log sheet.” Need for Compact Ammeter Records The rating of most electrical equipment is on an ampere basis. To determine when additional capacity in lines, transformers, or generators, is required on a power system, it is necessary to have an accurate record of past ammeter loads. For maximum usefulness, these ammeter records should be as compact and legible as possible for ready determination of the shape of the load curves and rate of growth. In large power stations it is common practice for an operator to note and record on a “log sheet” the ammeter readings on all outgoing transmission lines at frequent intervals. When several of these outgoing lines supply the same load it is necessary to totalize the loads on all lines in a given group in order to estimate the load growth on the combined group. Figure 1 illustrates a typical group of substations fed by several lines from the same generating station. When 50 to 100 or more lines emanate from the same station the instrument readings must be recorded with a minimum of effort and in the most usable form. Recording instruments would be suitable for this purpose if their record could be compact enough."
"The direct transmission of pictorial matter over transatlantic submarine cable has become practical through the development of some special types of networks and amplifiers. These are required because of the rapid increase of the circuit attenuation with frequency, and in order to override certain characteristic electrical interference to which the cable is subject. A summary is presented of the fundamental theory which governs facsimile and telegraph transmission, and the methods are shown by which this is applied to meet the conditions of cable picture working. An efficient system for transmission of facsimile matter from London to New York by submarine cable was made available to the public in April 1939. This provides an important advantage over radio sending of pictorial subjects, in that the cable system is not subject to unpredictable variations in the transmitting medium. But while the path from sender to receiver is inherently constant with time, the cable possesses characteristics which provide some unusual problems of transmission. The measures which were adopted to insure an undistorted likeness of the original and to transmit the intelligence at a maximum rate within the limited frequency spectrum available through the cable, appear to be sufficiently unique to justify a description at some length. This new system should not be confused with the “Bartlane” system of picture sending which was applied to cables for several years. In the Bartlane system the picture was analyzed into small unit squares, and a code character was set up corresponding to each unit. The characters were sent by means of the equipment ordinarily serving for telegraph transmission, and were decoded, usually automatically, at the receiving end. That system was inherently slow and made inefficient use of the available cable capacity as compared with the arrangement described herein."
"When transformers are installed near inhabited districts, their noise must be limited to unobjectionable values. Consequently, means of predetermining noise levels from the design constants of the transformer and means of noise reduction become necessary. It has been determined that the audio noise of transformers originates in the change in dimensions (magnetostriction) produced in the core steel by the alternating magnetic flux. The vibration caused by the change in dimensions is transmitted to the air through the tank walls. The basic noise may be increased due to the resonant vibration of mechanical parts. Theoretical relations for the sound produced have been derived. These relations are checked by tests on commercial transformers. Introduction When power transformers are installed in locations remote from residences or other buildings used constantly by human beings, audio noise created by them is not a problem. However, as loads increase it becomes desirable to place larger transformers closer to inhabited districts. Large transformers can create sufficient noise as to make their presence in inhabited districts objectionable. In addition, the public is becoming more noise conscious and insistent on the elimination of objectionable noise of any kind. Consequently, the calculation of the noise of a transformer from its design constants in order to predict the amount of the noise and a study of means of noise reduction becomes a practical necessity."
"Results are given of an investigation of the electric strength of air at pressures up to 21 atmospheres. Sparking voltages are presented for air under pressure as measured with 60-cycle alternating voltage applied to sphere gaps. Deviation from the linear pressure-voltage relation that exists at low pressures is discussed, and certain characteristics of sparking in compressed air are noted. A study of the electric strength of air under pressure was reported three years ago.1 Because of increased interest in the subject this study has been extended, and parts of the work have been repeated with a higher degree of accuracy. Data thus obtained are of interest in the design of air-blast circuit-breakers and other types of compressed-air switches, gas-insulated transformers, power cables operating under pressure, gas-filled radio transmitting condensers, etc. The present paper presents data relating to sparking between spherical electrodes in air, the air pressure ranging from 1 to 21 atmospheres (0 to 300 pounds per square inch gauge pressure). Results obtained with spherical electrodes may be applied with reasonable accuracy to any spark gap in which the electric field is substantially uniform. The results of this investigation are therefore applicable to sparking between the parallel plates of condensers, electrostatic shields of high-voltage apparatus, and other smooth surfaces. Breakdown between points, and at sharp edges, and between small wires, is discussed in the earlier paper.1"
"This paper presents (1) a more nearly complete and exact criterion of instability or hunting of a synchronous machine as influenced by its armature or tie line resistance, (2) a general stability criterion which includes in one formula three previously separately treated cases: the usual steady state power limit, rotor hunting produced by armature resistance, and self-excitation produced by series capacitance in the armature circuit, and (3) an indication, by means of a numerical example, of the limitations of the previously used approximate criterion for hunting due to armature resistance. In previous treatments, hunting, self-excitation, and loss of synchronism have been considered only separately, neglecting their mutual interactions. The present paper, on the other hand, considers their mutual effects and thus provides a general analysis by reference to which the limitations and proper fields of application of the approximate formulas may be found. Application of the complete criterion given is however rather laborious, and it is not suggested for general use in place of the approximate forms."
"Summary Several cross sectional shapes for hollow-pipe transmission lines are described that provide lower operating frequencies for given outside dimensions than do the simple shapes heretofore proposed. The theory for one such line, the “septate coaxial cable” is derived, and experiments are reported. Cavity resonator embodying these principles are also described. Introduction The hollow-pipe type of conductor1,2 for ultrahigh-frequency electromagnetic energy, although possessing several desirable features, has the disadvantage that its transverse dimensions are relatively large; namely, of magnitude comparable to the wave length. The object of this paper is to lessen this encumbrance by describing pipes that have transverse dimensions several times smaller than those of the simple forms previously proposed.∗"
"I. Introduction Driven grounds are important in electric power transmission and distribution. In fact, they comprise one of the essential elements in the art of lightning protection. Yet, to this day, the value of protection derived from grounds under actual operating conditions of lightning discharge is difficult to state in full quantitative measure. And the reason for this situation lies partly in the lack of fundamental knowledge of the impulse characteristics of driven grounds. In part, the difficulty also is due to the complex factors that inherently make up driven grounds and ground systems. A comprehensive survey of principles and methods on driven grounds was issued in 1918 by the Bureau of Standards.1 Further contributions have appeared since, some presenting new developments and findings,2 others dealing on theoretical aspects of the problem,3 and a third group bearing on related questions.4 In recent years, progress has been centered on the immediate field of application. Here the emphasis has been to obtain effective service with such methods of grounding as lend themselves particularly to economical installation. For instance, a common practice with some utilities nowadays is to drive rods to considerable depths, even down to bedrock, so as to attain the lowest measurable resistance. A recognized practice for securing low-resistance grounds is also to place a sufficient number of electrodes in parallel (multiple grounds). Still another expedient is that of reducing the resistivity of the soil immediately surrounding the electrode by suitable treatment with common salt (NaCl) or other conducting solution. All these developments have been based largely either on 60-cycle values or on closely similar methods of testing. And from the measured 60-cycle values plus what experience would ensue there have been established present practices."
"Lightning protection of wood pole lines is a problem of wide interest among operating companies. It is therefore timely to cite the experience of the Philadelphia Electric Company during the six year period, 1935–40, in successfully renovizing its 13 and 33 kv wood pole lines to reduce trouble. In 1935 this company was faced with the problem of determining how to materially reduce lightning trouble on a variety of pole top configurations at a minimum of expense. It had been shown by Andrews and Stroup1 that wood insulation could be employed effectively. However, no information was available to indicate what reduction in trouble could be obtained for various increases in insulation. The high ridge pin configuration proposed by these authors, while reported to be very effective, could not be applied to many of the existing line structures without making major changes in construction at considerable expense. There was therefore need for an investigation into the degree of protection afforded by lesser amounts of insulation. With this problem in mind, the author set out to make a detailed investigation of the performance of the various types of structures and to correlate their insulation strength with their rate of trouble."
"D-c breakdown studies of air in a uniform field have been extended to 1,000 kv. D-c studies of Freon (CCl2F2) have been extended to over 350 kv and to 135 pounds per square inch absolute. The departure from Paschen's law at the higher values of pressure times gap is noted. The mechanisms which account for the higher insulating strength of such gaseous compounds as CCl2F2 are outlined and their possibilities and limitations in the insulation of high-voltage apparatus are briefly discussed. Introduction It has long been recognized1 that the insulating strength of air and other gases in a uniform field increases with the pressure. The classical analysis of the voltage-breakdown mechanism and its dependence on pressure and other properties of the gas was made by Townsend in 1903.2 This explanation was based on the ionization of the interelectrode gas by both electron and positive-ion collision — a process which Townsend showed would become cumulative when the positive ions produced by the electrons moving toward the anode under the influence of the field become capable, by their ionizing collisions, of producing an even greater number of new electrons. Since that time, Townsend's second coefficient β has been reinterpreted to include various other mechanisms which contribute regeneratively to the charged particles in the interelectrode space. Among these are photoelectric emission, secondary electron emission due to positive-ion impact at the cathode, photo-ionization in the gas, and ionization by excited atoms and by multiple collisions. In addition, it has become evident that any explanation of high-pressure breakdown must also take into account the several processes of ion removal and the important influence of space charge and the myriads of tiny self-healing electron avalanches in modifying the electric field.3 Recognition of these various ion-producing, ion-removing, and field-modifying mechanisms has clarified the general picture of breakdown in gases but at the same time has shown it to be too intricate for full quantitative description. Because of this complexity, knowledge of gaseous insulation continues to depend to a large extent on the experimental determination of the breakdown strength and pre-breakdown behavior of the various gases as a function of pressure and electrode geometry, and on the investigation — both under simplified and under practical conditions — of the relative importance of the several mechanisms involved in gaseous breakdown. This paper extends d-c break-down studies in air and in Freon 12 (dichlorodifluoromethane) at high pressures and in a uniform field to higher voltages than have been reported previously, and indicates reasons for the observed departures from Paschen's law and for the relatively high insulating strength of the Freon."
"The modified Bessel function of the first kind, In(x), where X is a real quantity, is of widespread application, but it is of particular interest to electrical engineers, since the current and voltage for a traveling wave on an electric line can be expressed as a series of these functions."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This discussion, based upon an address delivered before Professor Philip Cabot's Business Men's Group at the Harvard Business School, is presented here for the purpose of stimulating thought among AIEE members on a problem of importance to all engineers; the “Letters to the Editor” columns are open to contributions on this current topic. Engineers are well schooled in the distinction between statics and dynamics. Hence a title has been chosen which suggests that the problem of maintaining employment is dynamic in character and involves the discovery of reactions which can be used to balance certain varying social forces. The cycle of availability of work followed by scarcity has doubtless operated as unremittingly down through the ages as peace and war. And at long last, as in the case of war, we are beginning to realize that any considerable and sustained degree of unemployment presents a serious threat to the foundations of liberal society. The discovery of adroit means to damp employment oscillations is a first-line problem in every industrial nation. In fact, there are cogent reasons for believing that the threat of war is itself inherent in insecurity of employment. Peace both within and without are therefore mutually at issue."
"Aircraft lighting consists of: landing lights, position lights (wing and tail), formation lights, cabin lights (dome and worktable), indicator lamps, bomb-release signal light, interaircraft control-lamp assemblies, and instrument light. Landing Lights. The first landing lights on aircraft were attached to the lower surface of the airfoil or to the fuselage. These lamp assemblies used 240- or 420-watt 12-volt lamps, depending on the size and type of airplane. Later, to reduce the aerodynamic drag, the lamp assemblies were built into a mount, which was fastened to the leading edge of the wing. The next improvement was the insertion of the lamp assembly in the wings and the use of a curved cover glass to conform to the contour of the airfoil. Because of the increasing use of deicers and the use of the front surface of the wing to carry load, the leading-edge lamp assembly has been superseded by the present standard electric retractable-type landing-lamp assembly, which is mounted in the lower surface of the airfoil. Experimental tests are being conducted on sealed-beam lamps for aircraft landing lamps. The use of these lamps would permit increased wattage and light output and eliminate reflector maintenance. Position Lights (Wing and Tail). The Air Corps recently has standardized on the single-unit-type position light which will meet the requirements of the Civil Aeronautics Administration airline forward position lights and which will also meet the Air Corps formation flying requirements when used with a dimming resistor. The Civil Aeronautics Administration requirements for tail light is not met by the Air Corps because increased airplane performance can be accomplished by the use of a lamp assembly using a three-candlepower, T-3 1/4 miniature bayonet-base lamp."
"Lightweight radio transmitting equipment, carried aloft by balloons, is being used to obtain remote indications of meteorological elements, from the stratosphere. Such equipment also makes possible periodic observations from unattended stations in remote locations. In the past few years there has been increasing application of radio to the extension of the geographical boundaries within which routine weather observations may be made. Heretofore, weather observations were limited to those which could be obtained by human observers near the weather instruments. The use of special measuring devices which automatically translate the variations of the meteorological elements to be measured into corresponding radio signal variations has removed many of the practical limitations. Measurements may be obtained from any point where it is possible to locate the measuring and auxiliary equipment, and they may be recorded (automatically, if desired) at any convenient point within radio contact of the measuring point. Thus, upper-air observations may be obtained economically well into the stratosphere by sending aloft, attached to small balloons, meteorological instruments with associated miniature radio transmitting equipment. Also, periodic observations may be had from isolated locations such as mountain peaks, small islands, floating buoys, and the like, where unattended equipment may be serviced at infrequent intervals but where it would not be practicable to maintain an observation staff. The government's meteorological services are already making extensive use of the balloon-carried equipment (radio sondes), daily upper-air observations being obtained at a large number of land stations in continental United States, Alaska, and the Caribbean, and at shipboard stations in the Atlantic and Pacific. The use of automatic weather stations at remote isolated locations is just beginning, but already quite a number of installations are in project."
"Any graphic art seems to involve an element of the dimension of time. For example, printing allows us to review in our imagination the happenings of previous times or the prediction of future happenings; paintings indicate to us things that happened in the past, and to happen in the future; likewise sculpture seems to contain that “mysterious” element of either preserving or reproducing happenings in time. In the motion picture, which may be called a graphic art, certainly the element of time is more intimately involved than in any of the other three arts mentioned. A reel of film may contain pictures of the dead villain, the live villain, and the unborn villain; it contains the beginning and the end; and that is all contained in that one reel of film at that very same time. In that reel of film those things have happened or they are going to happen. You can make it go backward or frontward. You can cut out a piece in the middle; you can stick it together and have that which happened previously happen today and then show the retrospect. You can delay the action and shift it further along in the story. You can take the element of time and just move it anywhere you wish. Time without geographic solidity and actual physical body would be as listless as physical body would be without time, so in the motion picture we have to put something tangible on the screen. We have to make an entertainment out of it. I believe the question of appeal of motion pictures to the general public is based on two main factors: One might be called the “mysterious” element of time involvement, and the other the presentation of realistic geographic records. That is, when you see a motion picture you feel that you are seeing something that either did happen, or could happen if it is a good one."
"Leaders in the engineering profession and in the Army and Navy agree that the engineering colleges of the United States should maintain strong educational programs and increase their research efforts, in addition to making special facilities available for emergency training, according to this distinguished educator and consultant on the Government's program."
"When the second 1940–41 AIEE presidential tour ended February 17th, its president in fulfillment of the business of his office had travelled 27,600 miles, visited 24 Sections and 16 Branches, attended 4 conventions, and addressed more than 50 gatherings; whereupon he said to himself: “I shall spend the next four weeks at my beloved and somewhat neglected California Institute of Technology teaching classes and contributing my bit to the research problems in which I have an interest.” In these days man proposes but Defense disposes. Only ten short days, used in “catching up” the things to be done that had accumulated while attending the highly successful winter convention and making the second tour of Section visits, have elapsed and as we begin this message, we are reluctantly speeding eastward across the continent (a round trip of 5,380 miles) for the purpose of spending two days working as a member of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education committee on acceleration of regular undergraduate engineering programs. That committee was appointed to study data submitted by the engineering colleges of the United States and prepare a report which SPEE may use to inform the advisory committee on engineering defense training of the United States Office of Education regarding “the feasibility and advisability of accelerating the regular undergraduate programs of the engineering colleges of the country.”"
"The North Eastern District meeting will be held in Rochester, N. Y., April 30 to May 2, 1941, with headquarters at the Sagamore Hotel. An interesting and varied program of technical sessions, inspection trips, entertainment, and special features has been arranged."
"From a variety of sources, the following items reflect various aspects of the power supply situation in the United States as it relates to the national defense program."
"The primary purpose of rating an electrical machine is to give the user an idea of what he may expect from the unit which he purchases. It is the purpose of this paper to propose a method of rating arc-welding generators and transformers which will give a truer picture of their working ability than is afforded by the present one-hour rating. Such a method of rating will be beneficial both to the customer who buys and uses arc welders and to the manufacturers who produce and market the units. The user will be better able to select a machine which will do the job to be performed, and at the same time he will be assured that he is not purchasing a machine unduly large for his requirements. The present custom is to give welding transformers and generators a one-hour rating, specifying the current they can deliver for a one-hour period, starting cold, without exceeding the permissible temperature rise. The plan here proposed is to give them a current rating indicative of their normal operating capacity, or short-time welding ability; and an additional service factor rating, indicative of their continuous current capacity, as limited by thermal considerations. All electric apparatus has these two major limitations on its output, one a “size” limit expressed by breakdown torque, commutation limit, or voltage drop; and the other a thermal limit expressed by the degrees temperature rise permissible for the type of insulation used. These two limits are usually quite independent of each other, so that no single number, such as a one-hour rating, can fully describe the usability of the apparatus. The proposed service factor rating gives both of these limits, and therefore gives the user the data for applying the apparatus to a variety of duty cycles. In conclusion, it is suggested that welding generators and transformers be designed for a service-factor rating of 75 per cent, since this corresponds best to typical welding duty cycles. It is also proposed that the standard AIEE values of temperature rise by resistance for continuous rated machines, 60 degrees centigrade for class A, or 80 degrees centigrade for class B insulation, be recognized as the limiting values in continuous operation at the service-factor rating. Rating for Welding Service Before proposing a method of rating, it is advisable to consider the purpose of rating. “The rating of a machine or other equipment is a set of performance characteristics which are subject to verification by test under specified conditions and which by mutual agreement between buyer and seller may serve as a basis of specifications and contracts covering the purchase and sale of the machine or other equipment. The rating is used by the manufacturer in the design and fabrication of the equipment and is used by the purchaser as the basis for application; therefore, the terms in which the rating is stated should be definite, easily verified, of such a nature as to permit intelligent use of the equipment, and as far as possible inclusive of usual conditions as found in practice.”1"
"Present-day program networks are reviewed from the standpoints of engineering, design, and operation as developed to meet the needs of the broadcasters. The factors requiring consideration in the further development of program networks in anticipation of future needs are also discussed. The presentation of the paper is supplemented by a demonstration of the quality obtainable by transmission over various types of telephone facilities. Introduction The growth of radiobroadcasting to the magnitude of a major national industry within the last 20 years has been accompanied by the development of a nation-wide system of wire-line networks interconnecting hundreds of broadcasting stations. Papers have been presented before this Institute from time to time1,2,3 describing the types of plant used for these networks and discussing important features of their design and operation. With these 20 years of experience as a background, it should now be of interest to review how the various requirements of broadcasting have influenced the development of the networks and to consider some of the factors which have determined the point to which transmission and operating features have so far been carried."
"System operating requirements, from the standpoint of frequency and tie-line loading, are continually becoming more rigorous and receiving more widespread attention. Supplementary controls have been developed to assist in the solution of these problems — but the speed governors of the prime movers still constitute the backbone of system control. This paper outlines the general problems encountered; gives definitions of terms for both steam and hydro governors and discusses the performance characteristics of these two general classes of prime movers. As a result of discussions with several operating groups certain definite conclusions were reached for prime-mover governor characteristics on the larger systems, viz., dead band should be as small as practicable; uniform incremental regulation desirable; adjustable regulation not necessary; similar rates of response not necessary and accurate response to supplementary control desirable. These conclusions are supported by the analytical work presented in the companion paper.7 A summary of the reasoning supporting these conclusions under the subjects of stability, dead band, regulation, response, short circuits, and tie-line swings is included. Introduction During the past several years the interconnected power system has come into being and has expanded rapidly to the point where some of these systems now comprise several million kilovolt-amperes of connected capacity. Many problems have appeared and of these, two important and closely associated ones, speed and load control, have continued to receive increased attention. In most cases large portions of these systems are tied together by tie lines of relatively small capacity and as a result power flow across the ties must be carefully controlled. Frequency control is being widely used in varying degrees of refinement and automatic tie-line control is being used in more and more locations.1,12,13,14 The control associated with these two problems is usually applied in the form of relatively slow supplementary adjustments to the normal action of the basic speed governors, which still constitute the backbone of system control. It is logical, then, as system operation becomes more refined and the requirements more rigorous, that more attention2,3,4 be given to the characteristics of the speed governing mechanisms. During this same period special instruments8,9,10 for accurately measuring small changes in system frequency have been developed and these instruments have been used to advantage by several groups in analyzing governor performance."
"The design of distribution systems for industrial plants will always constitute individualized problems. There is little hope that any particular form of distribution will be applicable to all industrial plants because the processes of manufacture and the arrangement of buildings differ widely depending on circumstances. There are, however, certain fundamental advantages to the network system of distribution which justify a much wider use than it has found to date. By far the greater part of factory distribution is still of the radial type and the network system must compete with the radial system in economy, reliability, and flexibility. The purpose of this paper is to show that it can do so successfully. Assuming that the product of the factory is such that a relatively large number of small and medium-sized motors are required rather than a few large ones, it will be found that the physical location in the factory of the various machines is not of such importance in the layout of the distribution scheme as the total connected load, the diversity factor and the over-all power factor, and it is on its ability to take advantage of diversity that some of the economy of the network system rests. The information available on the load density of factories is quite fragmentary. For the more common products of manufacture it varies from 5 to 30 kw per 1,000 square feet, 10 to 20 being the value mostly encountered, although in exceptional cases it may go as high as 100 kw. Load density should not be confused with the rating of the installed motors and utilization devices. The diversity between the various loads will considerably reduce this figure, and the “demand-factor,” that is, the ratio of the maximum demand over a period of time to the sum of the utilization device ratings, which is of significance in determining the transformer capacity to be installed, may be 50 per cent or less."
"Direct observation of extremely minute objects is of great value to both science and industry. Consequently a great deal of time and effort has been spent developing and perfecting optical instruments for making such observations. The modern light microscope is capable of rendering visible detail which is as fine as 0.00002 centimeter. Since the limit of resolving power of the normal eye is between 0.01 and 0.02 centimeter, the maximum useful magnification with these instruments is 1,000 to 2,000 diameters. Where ultraviolet light is used, the useful magnification can be increased to about 3,000 diameters."
"The displacement and diffusion theories of arc extinction in flowing fluids are defined and contrasted. The question as to the possibility according to hydro-dynamical principles of the formation of the wedge required by the displacement theory is considered and decided in the negative. Photographic evidence is also found to contradict the displacement theory. How turbulence will multiply diffusive effects is considered, and an estimate of 100 fold multiplication is given for conditions existing in gas blast breakers. This enhancement of diffusion by turbulence is found to make the diffusion theory adequate for accounting for the circuit interrupting capacities of arcs in gas blast circuit breakers. I. Introduction The important large effect which motion of the circumambient fluid has upon the circuit interrupting ability of an a-c arc has long been known, but there are still widely diverging theories as to how this effect comes about. Slepian,1 in discussing the influence of gas motion in self-generating gas blast devices such as oil circuit breakers and expulsion fuses stressed the effect of turbulence in causing a more rapid mixing of hot and cold gas volumes, thus speeding the spread of heat, and a more rapid mixing of highly ionized with unionized gas volumes, thus speeding the dilution of the ions into larger volumes. The theory here, then seems to have been that the function of the gas motion is to intensify or enhance diffusive effects, and more particularly, thermal conduction and ion diffusion. This type of theory which makes the powerful arc extinguishing effect of the fluid flow depend entirely upon its creating conditions where diffusive effects are greatly enhanced shall be called in this paper the “diffusion theory”."
"That the specter of a major system shutdown is prominent in the thoughts of many operators is evidenced by the 1939 symposium, covering methods of modernization of station-switching facilities, and the 1940 symposium, discussing means of restoring service to systems after a major shutdown. In this paper, system and apparatus performances are studied, during the period between the time allotted for the functioning of the high-speed relay protection, and the point where the system becomes so unstable that a major shutdown occurs. With a view to the further improvement of system operation, the paper studies:1. Phenomena preceding and during instability; 2. Method of lengthening the period between the fault and instability; 3. A local high-speed back-up relay scheme; 4. Means of automatically and quickly stabilizing an unstable system; and 5. In case all of the above fail, progressive isolation of the system by zones selected by degree of low voltage."
"The first mercury-arc rectifiers utilized glass tubes and consequently the physical size and electrical capacity was limited. The efforts to increase the available output led to the development of water-cooled steel-tank vacuum chambers after many years of research and the solution of many problems. This paper is primarily concerned with the solution of the problem presented by corrosion. Corrosion is essentially the returning of a metal to its original state and the problem consists in finding a means to retard the return sufficiently so that corrosion will not be a limiting factor in the life of rectifiers. Analysis of the problem indicates that pitting corrosion causes the greater damage and is largely a function of the character and condition of the metal, the quantity of electricity passing, and also that it is self-propagative. The rate of corrosion is affected by the temperature of the cooling water, the chemical constituency of the water, and potential differences between points on the surface of the rectifier tank. The first efforts in the solution of the corrosion problems were directed toward finding a protective coating to isolate the steel tank from the cooling water. Various paints, varnishes and lacquers, and enamels were investigated, as well as sprayed metal, but were not found satisfactory. Chemical treatment of the water was then investigated and sodium chromate found to give excellent results. The action of this chemical is reviewed and both laboratory and field evidence of its effectiveness submitted, followed by a discussion of the various factors to be considered in the application of this chemical to prevent corrosion. Introduction With few exceptions, all machines for the generation and conversion of electrical energy have been mechanical in nature. During the early part of the present century, Cooper-Hewitt and Steinmetz presented to the electrical world a conversion unit for transforming alternating current to direct current which was nonmechanical, but electronic in nature. This conversion unit known to us as the glass-bulb mercury-arc rectifier, has since its introduction won wide acclaim as an efficient, practical converter. Because of the fragility of glass, the physical size and current rating of the mercury-in-glass rectifier has been essentially limited. The desirable features of this particular type of converter are as follows: (a). High operating efficiency (b). Silent operation (c). Absence of moving parts (d). Comparatively long life"
"In the calculation of transients in linear electrical and mechanical systems by the classical methods of differential equations, the constants of integration which arise in the solution are ordinarily evaluated from the initial values of the dependent variable and its derivatives.1,2 The process of finding the initial derivatives is sometimes difficult for even rather simple systems, and the difficulties are particularly pronounced when the system of equations has undergone a change of variable to remove variable coefficients, as for example in Park's equations for the synchronous machine.3 The purpose of this paper is to present a new method by which the initial derivatives can be found for an initially relaxed system (all currents in inductances and all charges on condensers initially zero) by a manipulation of the final differential equation itself. The solution for a nonrelaxed system can be found from the relaxed solution by superposition or by means of a systematic change in the original differential equations themselves, as is commonly done in operational calculus.1,4,5"
"The varioplex method of telegraphic operation provides each pair of stations connected together by it an ever-ready two-way channel for the exchange of traffic, which occupies a band width of zero when idle and of a variable width when busy, depending upon extent of simultaneous usage by other connected stations. It possesses certain advantages over, or in supplement to, other forms of manual and machine switching or repeatering. Adapted to the use of private subscribers through telemeter service, it is finding extensive application in the telegraph plant. A good deal of current effort in the telegraph engineering field is being directed toward the solution of problems of trunking and switching. Basically, these problems arise from the circumstance that important trunking centers, like Boston, Atlanta, or Los Angeles, have tributary to them most of the less important telegraph offices in their respective surrounding areas. That this is so with respect to the many branch telegraph offices and tie-line connections which dot the larger American cities requires no explanation; the growth of commerce along the railroads has made it no less true of cities and towns many miles from trunking centers. The existence of fanned-out local telegraph circuits around Boston as a hub, to take that city as an example, is inherent in the commercial relationship of most New England towns to its dominating city. It can be appreciated, then, why the Boston office, in years past, has acted not only as the terminal for a considerable day-to-day traffic between Taunton and Boston but also as the relay point for the less frequent messages between Taunton and New York. This situation exists the country over. Of recent years, improvements in the transmission qualities of these tributary circuits have made it possible to terminate them, almost universally, in printing telegraph equipment."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Because it contains so much food for thought for all students, whether in college or out, this address, originally delivered to a student group at the institution of which Doctor Doherty is president, is presented here for the benefit of all “students” in the AIEE audience"
"Although the public is becoming increasingly conscious of the fire and explosion hazards presented by static electricity, development of precautionary measures has been seriously impeded by lack of understanding of the nature of the problem. This study of the fundamental elements of static electricity on rubber-tired vehicles is intended to provide a basis for developing methods of control."
"Information on the height of the cloud ceiling, vitally important to airplane pilots, now may be obtained during the day as well as at night. The use of the “ceiling projector” has been extended to daytime measurements by means of a photoelectric detector developed by the National Bureau of Standards for the United States Weather Bureau."
"The 1940 edition of the National Electrical Code recognizes 19 different types of building wire. Only 7 of these are rubber-covered building wires, yet when an electrical engineer thinks of building wire he almost instinctively calls to mind rubber-covered wire. This is because rubber insulation has been so generally satisfactory that it is produced and used in a volume vastly in excess of all the other types of wires combined. Within its temperature and voltage limits it has no peer. Most of this article therefore will be devoted to rubber-covered wires, although other types will be mentioned briefly."
"The paper “Voltage-operated earth-leakage protection” by T. C. Gilbert, deals with the problem of protection of low-voltage distribution systems from the standpoint of practical experience rather than from a purely theoretical basis, particularly for secondary systems on customers' premises. The author discusses the protection of secondary systems quite thoroughly and sets up the relative importance of the various factors in the problem, such as fire risk, shock hazard, cost of the installation, etc., but with greatest emphasis on the fire risk, since in rural areas this presents the greatest menace."
"Hearing the word “research”, the layman pictures a serious-faced individual in a laboratory, surrounded by mysterious apparatus. Popular conception has a laboratory the essential background, even though that is not the most important or most fertile field for research in many branches of science today."
"As a national defense problem of primary importance, the needs of the aviation industry offer a challenge to the designers and manufacturers of electrical equipment. The author lists the following as some of the important needs already recognized, and warns that others may be expected to develop."
"The AIEE summer convention, to be held in Toronto, Canada, June 10–20, 1941, offers members and guests unusual opportunities to combine business and pleasure. The technical program, which is scheduled to appear in the June issue, will include outstanding papers on a variety of timely subjects, as well as technical conferences and committee meetings. United States visitors, their Canadian hosts claim, will find novel touches in the entertainment, unusual opportunities to make their stay in Canada a high spot among long-to-be-remembered holidays. Sports and entertainment programs are now complete. Extensive plans have been made for the special benefit of women guests. Convention headquarters will be in the Royal York Hotel. No difficulties will be experienced in crossing the Canadian border (EE, March '41, p. 134)."
"The electric-power industry was termed a key industry in national defense by George A. Davis, vice-president, Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company, in an address at the 13th annual engineering conference of the Missouri Valley Electric Association, of which he is president. He said that the United States in its present defense effort is more dependent on adequate power supply than in perhaps any other period of its history, and for that reason the electric-power industry is vital in national defense."
"An adequate power supply is one of the requisites of present-day, high-production resistance welding. A major part of the power supply system of any industrial plant lies within the plant itself and consists of the plant wiring and transformer substations. It is the purpose of this report to show how to properly lay out such a plant distribution system for serving welders. Much of the fundamental data included in the tables and charts is not new but is included in order that the layout engineer will have complete information available in one compact report and will not have to refer to various articles and handbooks, copies of which may not be readily available."
"This paper describes the design and construction of a 138-kv, 1,500,000-kva air-blast circuit breaker. The construction is made possible by the use of a new interrupting device which utilizes the axial blast nozzle together with a “conserved pressure” chamber. The chamber receives the exhaust from the interrupting nozzle and contains the movable contact of the breaker in its open position. By means of a spring-loaded relief valve the pressure and dielectric strength of the air in the chamber are maintained at a high level."
"Heretofore it has not been commercially feasible to apply air-type breakers of the 5,000-volt class to circuits capable of producing short-circuit currents equivalent to 250,000 kva. However the continued demand for air circuit breakers of higher interrupting ratings has stimulated the development of a new breaker suitable for these applications. This achievement has been accomplished through magnetically enhanced diffusion of ionized particles, establishing dielectric strength in a gaseous region which was previously highly conducting. The interrupter consists essentially of an arc chamber of laterally spaced refractory plates embodying V-shaped slots and a magnetic circuit which imposes an intense magnetic field transverse to the slotted plates during the arcing period."
"The growing use of electrical equipment which causes distortion in the supply voltage and current has caused increased concern regarding the performance of watt-hour meters used to meter the energy required by such equipment. The watt-hour meter is designed and adjusted, in practice, to operate on practically distortionless current and voltage."
"Study of cable behavior on load-cycle tests led to the conclusion that instability of the insulation results from its deformation, leaving ionizable voids in the inner layers, where deterioration starts."
"The straight mathematical analysis of the damping problem on the synchronous machine leads to very complicated results. From these results, the conception of the phenomena occurring in the machine is very difficult and in addition the formulas obtained are so long that the calculation becomes tedious and errors can easily be made. In this paper, an attempt has been made to find a simple physical explanation for the positive and negative damping torques of the synchronous machine and on this basis to derive simpler formulas for the calculation of the damping torques. It has been found that the torque of the synchronous machine, as a double-fed machine, consists of three components, two dependent on the speed of the machine and the third dependent on the angle between the rotating field and the rotor. When the synchronous machine oscillates, the change of the first two components produces positive and negative damping torques of the synchronous machine. The change of the third component produces the synchronizing torque. The positive damping torque depends mainly on the primary voltage and secondary resistance; the negative damping torque depends mainly on the excitation and the primary resistance. This knowledge made it possible to derive a simple and very accurate formula for the positive damping torque as well as a simple approximate formula for negative damping torque. On the basis of these formulas, the influence of the two axes of the machine on the damping can be easily found. A comparison between the results obtained by using the simple formulas and the long accurate formulas as well as a comparison between calculation and test on a small machine have been carried through."
"A new transient condition unique to fuses of the current-limiting type is described and it is recommended that these fuses be designed to inherently control switching surge voltage magnitudes to meet the following conditions:"
"The elimination of oil in indoor circuit breakers, particularly for powerhouse use, has been insistently demanded to reduce fire hazard. In an effort to meet these requirements, various types of breakers not containing oil have been built and studied. Self-contained breakers of the “De-ion” type1 have been available for several years, and the potentialities of water breakers2 have been carefully investigated. Compressed-air breakers3 for this service have been successfully developed, particularly to meet high kilovolt-ampere interrupting requirements, and the circuit-rupturing ability of these devices has been so amazingly efficient that experimental breakers using this principle have now been built and tested for high-voltage outdoor application."
"The glow-switch1 is an automatic switch for starting fluorescent lamps.2 It is unique in that it is a thermal switch without a heater element, the heat being supplied by a glow discharge. The glow-switch functions as a time-delay relay yet it is a single-element switch with only two leads. At one value of applied voltage its resistance becomes a fraction of an ohm, while at a voltage only slightly lower, its resistance is measured in megohms. Before proceeding with the story of the development of the glow-switch, it is in order to discuss briefly the task which it performs."
"The protective link is a device recently developed for internal mounting in transformer of a wide variety of types and ratings. Its most common application, however, is in distribution transformers where it serves to disconnect the transformer in case of internal fault. Its action in arc extinction depends on a number of factors including a novel arrangement of the lower terminal which allows it to be expelled from the link when heavy currents are interrupted."
"It has long been recognized that with increase in altitude the density of air decreases and influences the voltage rating and temperature rise of electrical apparatus. However, different standards for apparatus do not give the same weight to these factors. Examination of Weather Bureau data shows that there is a decrease in average atmospheric temperature with altitude, which should compensate to some extent for the influence of the decrease in air density on the rate of cooling at higher altitudes. This led to a study of temperature records of the United States for the purpose of presenting a summary of the variation of mean temperature with altitude."
"This paper describes the principles used in controlling the load in a large interconnected system. Automatic frequency controllers with time-error correction and tie-line controllers with frequency bias and time-error correction have been developed for co-ordinating the operations of interconnected systems of any size and geographical extent. Automatic control of two or more stations simultaneously within a group is described, and the relation of the auxiliary frequency controllers to the speed governors is also discussed."
"This paper outlines the application of a new three-phase, single-element induction cylinder network master relay which uses line-to-line connected potential coils. Previous network master relays were three-phase, three-element and employed line-to-neutral connected potential coils."
"The data covering five years' operating experience with 33 ultrahigh-speed reclosing breaker installations mainly on a large interconnected and integrated high-tension system are presented and analyzed, and conclusions based on this experience are drawn. Out of 71 cases of flashover cited, 65 reclosures were successful and 6 cases of reclosure resulted in restrikes, a record of 91.5 per cent successful reclosures. The conclusions drawn are that not only is actual performance better than appeared possible when the development was first made but that further improvements are possible by further reducing breaker time."
"The inductor-loop principle of operation has been employed successfully for many years in building single-phase directional relays of the high-speed type. This principle of operation has now been extended to obtain a high-speed polyphase directional relay of a radically different type of construction than has been employed heretofore, which has such features as simplicity, compactness, low burden, high sensitivity, and nonbounce contacts."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"It is widely recognized that a “system of priorities” is necessary to assure proper control and ready availability of the enormous variety of raw materials and complicated military equipment essential to adequate national defense in these dangerous times. However, the parallel and equally vital need for assuring adequate supply and most effective use of the nation's limited supply of specially trained technical manpower seems to be not so widely recognized. Hence, Doctor Davis' strong and thoughtful plea for a system of “priorities in men.”"
"Investigations of the structure of atoms have shown that each atom possesses at its center a small, dense, positively charged core, or nucleus. Outside the nucleus the atom consists only of a small swarm of electrons, which are negatively charged and whose number is just sufficient to provide enough negative charge in the atom to balance the positive charge on the nucleus, so that the complete atom is electrically neutral. It is possible to modify the structure of atomic nuclei and thus to produce new atoms having unusual properties. In many cases these artificial atoms are radioactive and can be usefully applied in engineering, physics, chemistry, geology, and medicine."
"ANEW silicon steel having a magnetic saturation value approximately one third greater than conventional silicon steel has been announced by the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company. The new material, which has been named Hipersil (high-permeability silicon steel) reaches this higher saturation at the same magnetizing force as conventional silicon steel; its other characteristics are such that the core losses in transformers in which it is being used are no greater at the increased flux densities than they are in transformers using conventional steels"
"In order to get a better picture of the progress that has taken place with fluorescent-lamp equipment, it perhaps would be well to indicate where we started and how far we have gone since the fluorescent lamp first came into being. The fluorescent lamp first was made commercially available about 2 3/4 years ago. This new source was radically different in shape, size, method of operation, efficiency, brightness, and color quality from anything we ever had had before. We had little or no experience with sources of this type and therefore no precedents were available to help guide us. In 2 3/4 years the public has placed into operation between 8,000,000 and 10,000,000 of these new lamps. Considering that we started out with very little knowledge as to where, how, or in what quantity these new lamps would be used, I believe that it is not bragging too much to say that the industry has done a remarkable job."
"It is common observation that numerous installations of fluorescent lighting violate illuminating-engineering principles that have been built up arduously through the years. In many instances where competent design could have taken advantage of the higher efficiency of these new illuminants to produce excellent light-makes available the following information. It must be dated as of 1940."
"The fluorescent tube has certain desirable characteristics not possessed by its predecessors. Fundamentally, it is a low-brilliancy, large-area source, and good diffusion may be secured without the use of elaborate equipment. For high-level, localized general illumination, or uniform general lighting where low ceilings prevail, these characteristics are desirable. However, the light flux from this lamp cannot be projected great distances without loss which more than counterbalances its inherently high efficiency. The fluorescent lamp has the further advantage of being able to create a reasonably accurate reproduction of daylight, a characteristic which is a necessity in many specialized operations. Furthermore, a wide variety of colors may be secured without the use of absorption screens. In some cases this means nearly 200 times the usable light per watt."
"A detailed example illustrates the application of a method of calculating fault currents, knowledge of which becomes increasingly important as the rate of industrial expansion accelerates"
"WHAT happened to a Hochstadter compression-type cable in London, England, when an aerial bomb struck nearby may be seen from the accompanying illustration. Other than being forced slightly out of its original position and the enclosing pipe being dented in one place, the cable was not damaged and continued in service without interruption. The inset shows a closeup at the point where the cable enclosure was dented, the corrosion-protective covering having been removed over a short length. Adjacent cables were put out of commission, leaving the compression cable to carry the entire load for the areas it serves, and other underground structures were badly damaged. The bombing occurred near the point where the cable enters the substation"
"The president of the United States, according to the daily press, has declared there is need for still greater acceleration in the manufacture of machines and other defense requirements and that it may become necessary if that need is to be satisfied to withdraw from military service some of the engineers and others with specialized skills now engaged therein and assign them to work in factories making defense equipment."
"Although the Selective Service Act provides that no deferment of military service shall be made for occupational groups or groups of individuals in any plant or institution, constructive efforts are being made by Selective Service officials and by many local draft boards to defer from routine military service those men who are necessary in the production of National Defense materials and those students who are preparing themselves for service in defense industries and other activities vital to the national safety. This general subject has been discussed by AIEE President R. W. Sorensen in his messages to the Institute membership published in the March issue (pages 127–8), the April issue (pages 175–7), and again in this issue (page 279). The subject also was discussed by President Harvey N. Davis of Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, N. J., in an address delivered at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Rochester, N. Y., May 1, 1941, full text of which is included elsewhere in this issue (pages 247–50); and by W. S. Fielding (A '38) in the “Letters to the Editor” columns of this issue."
"Footing resistances for transmission line towers must be low for good operation, but it appears that no benefit results from reducing them below a certain limiting value characteristic of a given construction. This is because flashover can apparently be caused not only by excessive footing resistance drop, but also by the reactive drop accompanying rapid rates of current rise when tower currents are large."
"BUSHINGS are a very important part of over — all system insulation. Since all of the power transmitted from station to station and station to consumer passes through a great many bushings the majority of which are a part of vital equipment such as transformers, breakers, etc., it is immediately apparent that system — service continuity depends, to a large degree, upon satisfactory bushing operation. Early bushing designers were handicapped by a lack of operating history and high-voltage testing facilities. However, in spite of these handicaps they developed some sound designs as evidenced by the many 25 — to 30 — year — old bushings in satisfactory service today. In these early bushings porcelain was one of the principal dielectrics"
"Voltage surges on the 12-kv system of Commonwealth Edison Company have been recorded and studied for 20 years. This paper presents the Chicago data and outlines a theory for the explanation of system overvoltages that is in good agreement with the observations."
"The AIEE joint committee on bushings presented a report at the 1940 winter convention in which the committee proposed uniform requirements for the electrical characteristics of outdoor apparatus bushings. Since that time the committee has continued its work and has now completed a tabulation of proposed requirements for indoor and outdoor apparatus bushings rated 2,500 volts and higher."
"In a series of accelerated life tests1 on laboratory samples of impregnated-paper insulation of the type commonly used in high-voltage cables, certain methods have been employed for limiting the breakdown current and thereby the attendant burning of the insulation. In this way it has been found possible to obtain partial failures in which the breakdown is limited to only a portion of the insulation wall, say one-half or one-third of the total number of layers, the remaining layers being apparently unaffected. In these partial failures, the burning is very slight and it is possible to obtain a very good idea as to the location of the initial point of failure and the nature of its subsequent progress. With one of the methods used it has been possible on occasion to limit the breakdown to only two layers of paper and to study the extension of the failure through adjacent layers. The method gives great promise for the study of the mechanism of breakdown under laboratory conditions. In this paper we are reporting some of the preliminary results of a more extended program of study still under way."
"In the course of the past 25 years Heaviside's direct operational method of solving differential equations has, to a large extent, been replaced by solutions involving functional transformations. While mathematically sound this trend has resulted in placing a powerful analytical tool far above the mathematical equipment of the average engineer. With the exception of the celebrated expansion theorem or the method of partial fractions no direct method appears to have been discovered by which the average engineer or engineering student could solve even relatively simple differential equations by Heaviside's calculus. Several expansion theorems have been developed1,2,3,4 to cover cases where repeated roots are present but none of these have been set up in a form which could be used by undergraduates. It does not appear that any direct general procedure has ever been suggested to cover the usual type of asymptotic solutions which appear in problems in electrical engineering."
"Much has been accomplished in the past few years in understanding the problem of transformer noise. It has been definitely established that magnetostriction discovered by Joule in 1842 is the principal source of transformer noise. The various harmonic vibrations generated in the core by magnetostriction have been analyzed. Methods of calculating sound levels in terms of the standards prepared by the American Standards Association have been developed. A large number of modes in which different core structures may vibrate have been determined experimentally and analytically. As a result, methods for determining the correct design proportions of the core have been developed so that the natural modes of vibration may not coincide with the harmonic vibrations generated by magnetostriction. These methods have been successfully applied to actual designs of transformers including the largest ratings."
"The constant striving for improvement in over-all economy in the generation of electric power by steam has resulted in the last three or four years in a rather rapid increase in the capacity of steam turbine generators built to operate at 3,600 rpm. One of the factors contributing to this growth was the progress made in the use of high-pressure and high-temperature steam which led to the application of a number of such turbines for superposition on existing comparatively low-pressure steam plants, as well as for straight through condensing operation. The operating experience with such recently developed 3,600-rpm generators ranging in capacity up to 66,667 kva has been unusually good. The troubles which have been experienced, either mechanical or electrical, have not been of a serious nature."
"Manufacturers of electrical apparatus and appliances are aware of the value of high-potential insulation tests and have endeavored constantly to improve testing facilities and methods. Practical circumstances very early gave rise to the practice of applying a short-time test voltage substantially above the normal excitation of the apparatus or appliance. Because of the availability and simplicity of amplitude control, alternating voltage of ordinary power frequency has been used and the test voltage levels have been developed through operational experience. Occasionally circumstances have made the use of power frequency impractical; hence higher frequencies and direct voltage have been resorted to. Also, surge voltage tests have been used increasingly in an effort to simulate transient voltages which occur in field circuits."
"Theory based on the random occurrence of arc-backs indicates that the arc-back rate of ignitrons in series should be very low compared with the arc-back rate of the individual ignitron operating alone on its share of the voltage. To check these ideas, experiments were carried out with high-current ignitrons (350 amperes average per anode) operating in series with voltages balanced and unbalanced, and individually. The results of these tests are given and discussed."
"Electrolytic action is BY no means new or unfamiliar. It is as old as electricity itself and has been evidenced in many ways throughout the entire application and use of electricity. One of the early applications of electrolytic action pertaining to metals was employed in the refining of copper and similar metals. Also, electrolytic action was employed in the plating of metals on surfaces requiring a high finish or protective coating, which, of necessity, should be very thin. This application is best evidenced in nickel plating and chromium plating which has been widely used for a number of years."
"Enclosed bus-bar distribution systems have come into common usage to meet the needs of industry for the greater availability of electrical power in production areas. Beginning in 1927 the automotive industry pioneered the application of enclosed bus-bar systems as a solution to the frequent recurring problem of modifying the electrical distribution system incidental to mass production changes. Since that time there has been an increased utilization of bus-bar systems by all branches of industry."
"A review of storage battery applications in the railroad, motor bus, and aircraft transportation fields. Historical notes are recorded of events in the development of gas and Diesel-electric rail cars and Diesel-electric locomotives, especially as those events relate to storage batteries. Similar treatment is given to other battery applications — car lighting, air conditioning, busses, and aircraft. The changes made in the construction of batteries for these services are described. Physical and electrical characteristics are emphasized where they have a bearing on the application."
"The periodic cleaning, inspection, and testing of equipment plays a very important part in obtaining service continuity. The cost of the labor and equipment involved in locating and eliminating defective apparatus by the above procedure may well be charged to that hypothetical account known as “preventive maintenance.” The economics of the procedure, however, must be governed by the results obtained."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"MODERN theories of direct-stroke protection premise that the ground wires are so located as to intercept the stroke and provide perfect shielding. In spite of the fundamental importance of this question there still exists considerable doubt as to the correct position of the ground wires relative to the transmission conductors. Two avenues of approach are suggested for the attack of this question; first, the collection of statistical information regarding actual line performance, and second, the use of laboratory models. Line performance is, after all, the final criterion. However, it is difficult to isolate the shielding effect from other factors which may produce outage due to lightning. Studies with models eliminate this difficulty but always contain the element of doubt as to whether the laboratory conditions are sufficiently representative of actuality as to justify general conclusions. Perhaps the best course, that which is attempted in this paper, is to try both and co-ordinate the results so obtained."
"IT has for many years been recognized that voltage surges of considerable magnitude could be produced under certain system conditions by switching operations or by arcing faults. Such voltage surges have been studied in some detail in the past, and various theories have been developed to explain their occurrence and to predict their magnitude. The theories were in most cases sound, but the prediction of surge magnitude was on a rather insecure basis."
"Starting with the general equations of the completely transposed n-conductor transmission system expressed in matrix form, the equations are subjected to a similarity transformation. This transformation reduces the general equations to a set of n independent equations. These equations are then subjected to a Laplacian transformation and solved subject to the impression of arbitrary electromotive forces at a certain point of the lines. Expressions are obtained for the resulting traveling waves of voltage and current and the velocities of propagation are discussed."
"A general method of finding linear transformations to eliminate the coupling between substitutive networks is developed. The method is compared with that of symmetrical components and modified symmetrical components and its practical applicability is discussed."
"D-c corona discharges from pointed and sharp-edged conductors have been found to give rise to severe radio interference on aircraft under certain precipitation conditions. Laboratory studies, employing a point-to-plane arrangement, have shown that these discharges are greatly influenced not only by voltage and polarity but also by the geometry of the points."
"Radio reception at normal frequencies on board high-speed, all-metal aircraft suffers severe interference under certain precipitation conditions. Flight research has shown that under these same conditions, an airplane will accumulate a relatively heavy electric charge. The resulting potential difference between this charged object and its immediate surroundings creates voltage gradients of sufficient magnitude on pointed and sharp-edged extremities of the craft to produce corona discharges. Local radio disturbances of varying character and severe intensity accompany these discharges."
"A square-wave generator is described which covers a very wide frequency range, is compact, self-contained, and adaptable to many other uses besides the investigation of transient response. The instrument uses a positive-bias type multivibrator. The operation of the multivibrator and clipping circuits are explained. Approximate formulas for the multivibrator frequency and pulse width are derived and discussed and its increased stability against interference explained. Methods and fields for application are then discussed."
"Differential protection, employing percentage-differential relays, has1 long been the accepted method of fault protection for large power transformers. This method, illustrated by the schematic diagram, figure 1, is quite satisfactory in most respects but is subject to false tripping on the transient magnetizing-inrush current which flows when the transformer is energized. This current, since it flows in only one winding of the transformer, causes a differential current to flow which, to an ordinary relay, “looks” the same as the current due to an internal fault. One method of preventing operation on magnetizing inrush in the past has been to use slow-speed induction-type relays with long time and high current settings. This is undesirable because of the slow-speed, insensitive protection it affords on internal faults. Other methods, applied to high-speed relays, involve desensitizing the relay during a time period covering the maximum inrush transient controlled by auxiliary relays operating on the transformer voltage.2 These methods have the disadvantage that they usually require the purchase of additional potential transformers, involve one or more auxiliary relays with the attendant circuit complication, and seriously reduce the sensitivity of the protection against faults present when the transformer is energized or which occur during the inrush period. In this paper a new type relay is described which, using the principle of harmonic-current restraint,3 is able to distinguish between the differential current due to an internal fault and that due to magnetizing inrush by their difference in wave form, operating with high speed on the fault current and being restrained from operating by the magnetizing-inrush current. Being entirely current-operated, this relay does not require the purchase of potential transformers. It is entirely self-contained and the only moving part is the single relay armature which operates the tripping contacts. Minimum desensitization during the inrush period is obtained, depending on the relative magnitudes of the inrush and the fault currents."
"The cross-blast principle of arc interruption has been shown to provide maximum air economy; consequently this method of interruption is well suited for use in an air-blast breaker that must conform to the rigid space requirements and small phase spacings encountered in medium-capacity metal-clad equipment."
"This paper describes the behavior of water as a dielectric, in particular with reference to its use in water circuit breakers."
"Outline of a group of methods that will permit calculation of all the common changes on power-system networks by superposition methods having as a basis the representation of loads as fixed currents. Investigation of the errors involved, and comparison with results obtained by assuming constant-impedance loads, when applied to the average power-system networks in operation today."
"The use of two fuse elements of different rating, in series, in a high-voltage fuse device is described in this paper. The two elements are placed in a tube and the tube is filled with an arc-extinguishing substance and sealed; one end with an expellable plug."
"Considerable literature has appeared in the technical press during the past few years describing and analyzing the application of capacitors. Naturally, each author has treated the particular phase of the subject that best accomplished his objectives. It is felt, however, that a large majority of the potential users, and probably a good many of the actual users of capacitors, do not fully appreciate the change effected in the fundamental circuit characteristics when capacitors are applied. And the literature referred to does not seem to supply the demand for this type of information. This opinion has evolved through answering such queries as: “What should I use here, shunt or series capacitors?” “Should I put on shunt capacitors or regulators to fix up my bad voltage condition?” and “I guess a series capacitor is the thing to use here because it balances out all the inductance of the line and with that out, the voltage is bound to be good.”"
"Acceleration tests on motors may yield very interesting and valuable information. These tests show the behavior of the motor in that region between zero speed and full speed through which each motor must pass every time it is started. The usual tests do not cover this range. In fact, it is difficult or impossible to obtain the actual motor characteristics in this range on many motors by any other means. The accelerating characteristics of a motor determine the margin by which that motor is able to start and bring its load up to speed in a reasonable length of time under the least favorable conditions which might be encountered. Acceleration tests may also be used in checking theories of operation, correctness of design constants, the presence of any peculiarities in the performance curves, and, in the case of induction and synchronous machines, any tendency to lock in at a subsynchronous speed. Where the motor has been installed and connected to the load, the characteristics of the load will affect the curves obtained. Tests made under these conditions may be of special value, since they represent operating practice."
"The demand for speed variation and power-factor compensation in a-c motors led to the development of the polyphase commutator types. In their simplest form these motors consist of two windings; a stator winding which is identical with that of the polyphase induction motor and a rotor winding of the closed type provided with a commutator and similar to the winding of a d-c armature. The field and armature windings are connected in series or shunt and give load characteristics similar to their d-c counterparts."
"The function of a braking magnet for a watt-hour meter is to produce a retarding torque acting to balance the electromagnetic driving torque. This retarding torque must be strictly proportional to the velocity of the disk for the watt-hour meter to register accurately. This is readily seen from a consideration of the fundamental watt-hour meter equation.1"
"The historical background of the development of the vertical-flow interrupter for “oil-poor” circuit breakers is reviewed. A description of the interrupter and its theory of operation is given. The application of two of these interrupters to a 138-kv 1 1/2-nillion-kva “oil-poor” porcelain-clad circuit breaker is shown, together with laboratory test results."
"Good commutation is essential for the reliable performance of d-c machines with low maintenance costs. As an aid to the commutation adjustment of machines in the factory, or in the field, a systematic test procedure has been found useful on large machines to indicate certain features of the machine's adjustment, notably the commutating field strength and brush position. This information is obtained directly from curves known as “black bands” or “buck and boost curves” plotted from test observations. The significance and interpretation of these curves in terms of machine adjustments, differential between commutation-reactance voltage and voltage induced by interpole flux are presented and results of observations on machines for special service (variable-speed motors and variable-voltage generators) are also given in this paper. Included are typically shaped “black bands,” obtained in practice. The black-band method has proved to be an extremely powerful and useful tool in commutation adjustment and it is hoped that this discussion of it will lead to an increasing use of the method with a corresponding furtherance of knowledge about it, thus enlarging its scope of usefulness."
"The electrical properties operated by the Columbia system are located in the southwestern quadrant of Ohio and in northern Kentucky. These properties are shown in figure 1. The actual operations are carried on by the Dayton group, and the Cincinnati group."
"The general technique of applying short-wave diathermy has become firmly entrenched in the therapeutic repertoire of the medical profession during the past eight years. The clinical effectiveness of this particular physical treatment, along with the commercial development of apparatus suitable for applying this form of energy at an economical cost, has given it wide usage. In spite of the general acceptance of short-wave diathermy in medicine there seems to be no universally accepted theory regarding the action of the electrical fields or currents in the body tissues themselves. In this country the most widely held theory is that the heating effects created in the tissues by the currents account for all the therapeutical results.1,2 In Europe there is a school of physicians which holds that athermic treatments are clinically effective.3"
"Although the great majority of commercial heat sources deliver an appreciable portion of their energy in the infrared spectrum, most industrial heating processes now rely on heat transfer by convection. With the intermediate heating of the air between the source and the point of useful work, two or more energy transfers result with consequent loss in speed of transfer and efficiency while the available radiant energy is largely converted into convected heat by the heat transfer system before it is usefully employed."
"Since the development of the ignitron several papers have been presented which pertain to the theory of operation1,2,5 and explain its contribution to the recent advancement in the field of resistance-welding control.7,8,9,12 The object of this paper is to review the ignitron characteristics and to point out the operating principles, which should be considered in order to insure successful applications."
"In the paper are presented new data on (1) arc-voltage drop and current-limiting effects for arc faults in bar-conductor structures, (2) current-limiting effect of insulated-cable arc faults, (3) cable impedance in an iron conduit, and (4) impedance of low-voltage switchgear circuit assemblies, derived from tests at short-circuit currents in circuits with open-circuit line-to-line voltages of 208–600 volts at 60 cycles. The currents ranged from less than 10,000 amperes to values as high as 100,000 amperes rms in some cases."
"The first of the two methods discussed in this paper is particularly applicable to a-c slip-ring motors. Series-resonance circuits responsive to the variation in rotor frequency with motor speed provide a means of accelerating the motor automatically, while a series-parallel resonance circuit similarly connected to the rotor can be used to protect the motor when “plugged” or suddenly reversed. The sensitive response of the latter circuit within a narrow frequency range makes possible its use as a “zero-speed” switch."
"Recent literature indicates a considerable interest in the subject of single-phase induction motors which use split-phase starting. In the available motors condensers are often used as auxiliary impedances in the starting circuit and may also be used in the running circuit. Much of the existing literature on these machines deals with the condenser required and the torque developed. For the purposes of this analysis ideal conditions of balancing will be assumed. If the auxiliary impedances are properly chosen the motor windings will be subjected to balanced polyphase voltages. Under these conditions the motor will operate as a polyphase motor and the analysis may be carried out using standard polyphase motor theory and a-c circuit theory. The first machines analyzed will be of symmetrical two- and three-phase design. Following this, motors having unsymmetrical windings will be considered. Some observations on the related subjects of motor size and motor rating will also be included."
"In all domestic motored appliances, there are certain general design factors to which more detailed design factors are related, depending upon the appliance involved. In this paper the various design factors are enumerated and explained in a way which it is hoped will be of assistance to the many thousands of engineers engaged in the design of motored appliances. Curves show typical speed-torque characteristics of motors used to drive various types of appliances. Tables show the types of motors used with different types of appliances and the principal factors causing noise. General design factors involved in motored appliances are discussed as a group."
"The revolving field theory of single phase induction motor operation resolves the total flux crossing the air gap into two components rotating in opposite directions but constant in magnitude. The cross field theory resolves the total flux into two components of varying magnitude but constant direction with reference to the stator."
"This paper presents the design of a condenser type indicator and associated electrical equipment, together with the technique of measuring pressures in internal-combustion engines."
"It is the purpose of this paper to present a rigorous analysis and description of the phenomenon which takes place in an interrupting device during the interval between the parting of the contacts and the current zero at which interruption takes place. It is to be shown that the events which take place during the arcing period prior to interruption play an important part in setting the stage for the drama of circuit interruption. This analysis has a counterpart in the phenomenon which takes place immediately following interruption; namely, circuit recovery characteristics. The knowledge of this latter phenomenon has played a dynamic role during the past ten years. With its aid, oil circuit breaker designs have advanced to the point where their excellent performance has set the high present-day standards of reliable circuit interruption.2,3 The knowledge of recovery rates4,5 laid the foundation for the displacement principle;6 namely, oil velocity multiplied by the oil dielectric (impulse) strength is equal to the maximum permissible rate of rise of recovery voltage."
"This investigation of the series circuit shown in figure 1, consisting of resistance, capacitance, and nonlinear inductance, was undertaken with a view of determining the behavior of the subharmonic current which may result when a sine-wave voltage of fundamental frequency is applied. The magnetization characteristic of the inductor is given in figure 2, and all results, therefore, are associated with this one particular inductor. All values of resistance are ohmic values."
"Operating records of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., revealed the existence of irregular fluctuations in the loads on generating stations and tie feeders. Tests were conducted to determine the response of parts of the system to changes in load, voltage, and frequency. By analyzing the test results to show the relation between these three quantities under various operating conditions, it was possible to establish the origin of the load swings, as well as to determine their magnitude, duration, and recurrence."
"Considerable attention has been focused on the subject of load swings, turbine generator governing, and stability not only when operating a system alone but when interconnected with other systems. At a subcommittee meeting of the power generation committee, two assignments were made: One to crystallize the problem and the other to outline the desirable functional characteristics of a governing system. This memorandum, dealing with the former, has been prepared based on answers to a questionnaire submitted to a representative group of operating companies. The response to the questionnaire was excellent, practically all of the operating companies to whom it was sent having made replies."
"In the normal steady-state operation of a power system, proper load division, frequency, and time are maintained by manual or automatic system control, while the transient swings occasioned by load changes are absorbed by the inertias and speed governors of the individual generating units. With improvements in reliability and performance of systems and their interconnections, it is a natural development that further careful attention and study be given to the basic speed governors and their effects on system operation.1,5,6 It is desirable to determine the requirements which a good governing mechanism should fulfill, and the effects of specific governor and system characteristics on over-all system performance. Moreover, under certain conditions some governors may accentuate rather than reduce the magnitudes of the frequency swings, and it is desirable to know the conditions for which this may occur."
"This report presents a brief history of the subject of protection of power transformers against lightning overvoltages. The nature and magnitude of these overvoltages are described pointing out which ones are the most dangerous to apparatus."
"The present-day demand and imperative need for higher speeds and increased outputs in every phase of industry and transportation have emphasized the tremendous importance of realizing the maximum utilization of the service capacities built into electrically-driven equipments."
"The Rural Electrification Administration and Bell System have been carrying on co-operative studies of the inductive co-ordination of REA distribution systems and rural telephone circuits since 1939. The results of these studies have indicated that the two systems can be satisfactorily co-ordinated when (a) the influence of the power system is controlled, (b) the separation in unavoidable exposures is adequate and reasonably uniform, and (c) the susceptiveness of the exposed telephone circuits is limited by care in design and maintenance. The more important factors controlling the influence of REA distribution systems and the susceptiveness of rural telephone circuits are reviewed and certain remedial measures applicable to the power system are discussed, with illustrations from the recent joint field work. Recent trends in the design of rural telephone circuits which result in improved susceptiveness are mentioned."
"With conventional types of switchgear and customary methods of circuit operation, power arc-overs resulting from transient faults on overhead primary lines cause unnecessary burndown of conductors and undesired operation of fuses. The majority of faults on overhead distribution circuits are of transient nature."
"One requirement of a field test on transformers is that weaknesses which develop in bushing or winding insulation be readily located and failures prevented. This has been effectively accomplished in the American Gas and Electric Company system by a power-factor testing program of transformer insulation which was initiated in the fall of 1933. For some 18 months prior to this time, a field testing program for oil circuit-breaker insulation had been in progress. As pointed out in previous publications,1,4 these tests had proved satisfactory particularly in locating faulty bushings and bad oil circuit-breaker insulation. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the tests we have made on transformer winding insulation, the methods used in locause of progressive faults has been detected and eliminated without need of major repairs. This procedure has helped materially in keeping equipment in first-class operating condition, in preventing failures, and in realizing substantial monetary savings."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–107 by C. F. Wagner, G. D. McCann, and G. L. MacLane, Jr., presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 313–28."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–106 by C. Concordia and H. A. Peterson, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 340–6."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–105 by Edith Clarke, H. A. Peterson, and P. H. Light, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 329–39."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–109 by Louis A. Pipes, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 351–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–108 by Louis A. Pipes, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 346–51."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–110 by H. M. Ferree, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (January section) pages 8–12."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–85 by W. M. Leeds, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (February section) pages 85–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–125 by R. M. Bennett and B. W. Wyman, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 383–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–86 by Joseph Slepian, C. L. Denault, and A. P. Strom, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 389–95."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–88 by Paul MacGahan, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940 and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (January section) pages 4–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–97 by John H. Miller, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Swampscott, Mass., June 24–28, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (January section) pages 37–40."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–114 by B. P. Baker, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 440–5."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–127 by J. H. Neher and A. J. McConnell, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (January section) pages 12–17."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–115 by Joseph Slepian, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (April section) pages 162–7."
"Discussion of paper 40–129 by R. M. Smith and S. L. Goldsborough, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (January section) pages 23–7."
"Discussion of paper 40–126 by J. W. Butler, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 408–15."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–134 by G. Leslie Hill, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 402–07."
"Discussion of paper 40–130 by J. B. Hodtum, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (January section) pages 28–30."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–133 by V. G. Rettig, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 396–401."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–120 by Raymond W. Ager, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 416–22."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–131 by J. V. Lebacqz, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (February section) pages 44–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–128 by I. F. Kinnard and J. H. Goss, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Los Angeles, Calif., August 27–30, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 431–9."
"Discussion of paper 40–148 by O. R. Schurig, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 479–87."
"Discussion of paper 40–146 by M. E. Bivens, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 471–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–142 by John D. Leitch, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 487–93."
"Discussion of paper 40–137 by J. W. Butter and E. B. Pope, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (February section) pages 49–53."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–144 by Charles J. Miller, Jr., presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (February section) pages 62–6."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–158 by H. L. Rawlins, A. P. Strom, and H. W. Graybill, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (February section) pages 77–80."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–138 by T. W. Schroeder and J. C. Aydelott, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 446–51."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–150 by W. B. Kouwenhoven, D. R. Hooker, and O. R. Langworthy, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (February section) pages 41–4."
"Discussion of paper 40–139 by Raymond W. Ager, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 494–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–153 by P. H. Trickey, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (February section) pages 73–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–151 by C. T. Button, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 507–12."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–154 by L. C. Packer, and presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 500–07."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 40–141 by F. S. Himebrook, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (February section) pages 55–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–140 by A. F. Puchstein and T. C. Lloyd, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (February section) pages 58–62."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–32 by R. C. Dickinson and R. H. Nau, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 197–201."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–54 by L. R. Ludwig and B. P. Baker, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 217–22."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–58 by W. R. Rankin and R. M. Bennett, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 193–7."
"Discussion of paper 41–61 by E. W. Boehne, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 524–32."
"Discussion of paper 41–37 by P. C. Cromwell, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 273–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–9 by J. G. Trump, F. J. Safford, and R. W. Cloud, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (March section) pages 132–5."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–21 by H. H. Skilling and W. C. Brenner, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (March section) pages 112–15."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–60 by E. A. Williams, Jr., and C. L. Schuck, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 214–17."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–59 by J. K. Hodnette and M. G. Leonard, presented at the AlEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941 (May section) pages 226–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–62 by Bert V. Hoard, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 246–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–81 by D. L. Beeman, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 237–41."
"Discussion of paper 41–34 by Roland White-hurst, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 303–07."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–29 by Fremont Felix and H. G. Jungk, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 578–86."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–45 by G. A. Matthews, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 596–604."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–52 by Philip Sporn and C. A. Muller, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 241–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–51 by F. O. Wollaston and H. J. Plumley, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 260–5."
"Discussion of paper 41–76 by the AIEE joint committee on bushings, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) page 266."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–66 by T. F. Brandt and H. L. Rorden, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 255–60."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–48 by C. A. Powel and H. G. Barnett, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (April section) pages 154–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–64 by E. T. Carlson, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 297–302."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–36 by S. K. Waldorf, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 249–54."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–71 by Wm. A. Del Mar, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS (May section) 1941, pages 206–10."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–5 by P. L. Bellaschi, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (March section) pages 123–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–14 by H. N. Ekvall, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (March section) pages 128–32."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–11 by J. D. McCrumm, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 533–40."
"Discussion of paper 41–70 by R. F. Hays, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 223–6."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–19 by K. J. Plucknett, W. T. Smith, and T. A. Taylor, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 586–95."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 40–157 by E. J. Martin, C. E. Grinstead, and R. N. Frawley, presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 9–11, 1940, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 513–23."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–33 by R. C. Freeman and A. U. Welch, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (April section) pages 137–41."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–78 by H. W. Tenney, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 230–2."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–24 by R. J. Caughey and J. B. McClure, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (April section) pages 147–51."
"Discussion of paper 41–15 by Thomas E. Curtis, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (March section) pages 89–92."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–68 by J. J. Dougherty, A. P. Hayward, A. C. Monteith, and S. B. Griscom, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 547–58."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–23 by C. Concordia, S. B. Crary, and E. E. Parker, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 559–67."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–16 by H. A. Bauman, O. W. Manz, Jr., J. E. McCormack, and H. B. Seeley, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 541–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–80 by Earle Wild, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 232–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–49 by F. W. Gay, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (April section), pages 168–73."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–31 by E. W. Whitmer, presented at the AlEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AlEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 605–11."
"Discussion of paper 41–72 by C. C. Baltzly and E. L. Schlottere, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 308–12."
"Discussion on paper 41–10 by W. C. Sealey, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (March section) pages 109–12."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–39 by A.L. Penniman, Jr. and H. D. Taylor, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 283–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–53 by H. Fahnoe, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 277–83."
"Discussion of paper 41–79 by the AIEE transformer subcommittee, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 568–77."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–12 by C. Concordia and G. K. Carter, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (March section) pages 116–19."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–2, by W. W. Kuyper, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (April section) pages 151–3."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–25 by Emil J. Remscheid, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (April section) pages 173–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–18 by J. W. Milnor, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (March section) pages 105–08."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–55 by C. M. Summers, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 289–92."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–3 by T. G. Le Clair, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (March section) pages 93–9."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–43 by C. A. Keener, M. A. Faucett, and M. S. Helm, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (May section) pages 202–05."
"Discussion of paper 41–27 by J. B. Whitehead and M. R. Shaw, Jr., presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 267–72."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–77 by H. W. Neblett, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (June section) pages 294–6."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"All too thoughtlessly and all too commonly democracy has come to be regarded as being a one-way proposition — just an intangible “something” which somehow automatically establishes and guards individual freedom, individual rights, and individual privileges. That this careless point of view may be understandable makes it no less tragic and at least potentially devastating. True democracy connotes co-operation and interdependence — a definite responsibility for each citizen if there is to be any democracy. There must be a general awakening — “or else!”"
"Irrespective of the extremities of individual opinions about it, Engineers' Council for Professional Development admittedly occupies a position of strategic potentialities in the very broad field of engineering endeavors. Because of the magnitude and the magnificence of its accomplishment in the surveying and accrediting of engineering curricula throughout the United States, ECPD is all too widely thought of as being primarily an accrediting agency. Quite to the contrary, as Doctor Doherty here points out, ECPD provides a channel for the effective coordination of engineering efforts in many directions of public as well as professional significance. AIEE President Sorensen also comments on this topic in his message to the Institute's membership that appears elsewhere in this issue. THE engineering profession faces a great challenge and opportunity. It faces the imperative challenge of the unstable new world it has helped to create, and the opportunity to take a hand in stabilizing that world. But if it plans to meet this clear obligation and assume such a role in the life of the country, it should look ahead, measuring the implied responsibilities alongside its capacities for discharging them. Doing this, it would find one fundamental deficiency to be in the capacity for joint action, and another in the character and extent of the engineer's preparation. It is my conviction that these deficiencies are vital and that concerted thought must be given to their correction; otherwise the profession will probably receive and justly deserve the unhappy distinction of having let its next generation down and failed in its national mission."
"THE AIEE constitution prescribes a president's address at an annual convention. Two weeks ago, we realized the import of that prescription and cast about for a subject worthy of our members' attention and a few of those precious premium pages in our publications. Following the usual practice of an engineer, we did a little research and spent a long day reading the addresses of past presidents to see what they had done under like conditions. Have any of the rest of you ever read all the presidents' addresses? Out of that study, several harvests were gathered. Two of the direct ones were an interesting and satisfying day, and the knowledge that there is no pattern for such an address, beyond the quite frequent use of an opening sentence equivalent to the one I used. Among the indirect harvests was the conception of the subject for our address, “The Old Order Changes, but Men Run True to Form”. Both parts of that are borrowed, as are probably, though unintentionally, other things that will be said. The words of the first part of the title, “The Old Order Changes”, were stored in my mind many years ago when I was a boy in school. They are found in Tennyson's “Coming of Arthur” and also “The Passing of Arthur” and read:"
"Advances in application of high-voltage fluorescent tubing are making it increasingly useful not only as a sole light source but also as a complement to other sources. Presented here is the scheduled conference discussion on the subject given at the AIEE 1941 winter convention, supplementing other scheduled discussions from the technical session and conference on fluorescent lighting which appeared in the June issue. HIGH-VOLTAGE fluorescent tubing is the logical development of the simple cold-cathode low-pressure discharge tube. Transformers, glass, and wiring methods have not materially changed but the fluorescent coating has been added to the inside walls of the tubing. Advances have been made, however, in the techniques of use, and the inherent characteristics of the light source offer wide possibilities for future exploitation."
"USE of extension cords with special 50-watt transformers to reduce the supply voltage to six volts, by the Public Service Electric and Gas Company of New Jersey, has eliminated the electric-shock hazard in the use of portable hand lamps in damp locations, according to a recent number of Public Utilities Safety issued by the National Safety Council, which reported as follows:"
"THE Engineers' Council for Professional Development has completed its eighth year and issued its eighth annual report. Every electrical engineer has an interest in the work of ECPD because the AIEE is one of its eight sponsoring bodies. Each of the eight participating bodies has three representatives. Our representatives are:"
"When the United States embarked on its “all out” National Defense Program last year, the first problem was to expand as rapidly as possible the nation's manufacturing capacity. This involved the construction of hundreds of new manufacturing plants and facilities, expansion of many existing plants, and production of new machinery for both. The first period of plant expansion and tooling is rapidly nearing completion and quantity production is getting under way on a greatly expanded basis."
"ELECTRIC arc furnaces are desirable loads for power systems, and are becoming more and more used for producing high-grade alloy steels, as well as for other types of steel. The authors believe that the data in this article will be of value and assistance to others in the solution of similar problems. It is necessary in connecting large electric arc furnaces onto power systems that it be done in such a manner that neither the voltage changes, caused by the violent and rapid load swings of these furnaces, will interfere with other load of the furnace customer nor be permitted to reflect back into the system in such a manner as to interfere with service to adjacent customers. Also precautions must be taken so that such widely fluctuating loads will neither interfere with the operations of any of the equipment on the power system nor interfere with any interconnection with adjacent power companies. Further, precautions must be taken so that voltage regulation caused by large short-time loads will not be too great."
"Within recent years a new electromechanical transmission known as the “Electrogear” has been developed for use in gas and Diesel engine cars of all types including busses, trucks, rail cars, and track-laying vehicles. The paper describes the principle of its operation which is basically a differential action between direct mechanical power transmission and a generator-motor system, interlinked by means of a permanently engaged planetary differential gear."
"CELLULOSE insulation, like mineral oil with which it is usually associated in high-voltage electrical apparatus, is subject to deterioration in an increasing degree as the temperature of exposure is raised. This deterioration is a manifestation of the chemical instability of the cellulose. For a proper understanding of this change, it must be recognized that the fundamental chemical reactions involved are of two types. There are those changes which result from the oxidation of the cellulose and those which arise from the decomposition of its molecule. These changes are invariably intermingled in the normal commercial use of cellulose dielectric materials. To prevent dangerous deterioration and to secure the maximum service life of cellulose insulation, the effect produced by each type of reaction, the probability of its occurrence, and the means for its control must be carefully evaluated. Summary 1. Cellulose insulation will deteriorate in mechanical strength at a rate which increases with the increasing temperature of exposure. Deterioration will occur in the absence of an oxidizing atmosphere. 2. The rate of cellulose deterioration at a fixed temperature varies as the heat treatment is continued. 3. The mechanical deterioration of cellulose insulation at elevated temperature is the result of oxidation and pyrochemical decomposition. 4. When heated, cellulose passes through a “stable period” during which the mechanical properties are maintained. The presence of oxygen is chiefly effective in reducing the duration of this “stable period.” 5. The single effect of oxidation is restricted to the initial periods of treatment at temperatures lower than approximately 120 degrees centigrade. At higher temperatures, pyrochemical decomposition occurs. Even in the most favored temperature range, the effect of cellulose oxidation merges into the effects produced by pyrochemical decomposition as the deterioration progresses. 6. Heated under conditions which favor oxidation or pyrochemical change, the un-impregnated cellulose insulation deteriorates more rapidly than the same insulation after oil treatment and immersion. 7. The effect of oxidation is accelerated when pure oxygen gas is in contact with the insulation. No substantial difference in the rate of mechanical deterioration is observed when the oil-treat ed and oil-immersed insulation is aged in contact with nitrogen gas as compared to aging in contact with air."
"Introduction THE rotor of a squirrel-cage induction motor is an extremely simple and rugged piece of mechanism; and due largely to this simplicity, it resists accurate analysis of its behavior by ordinary testing technique. Its design has been perfected by cut and try methods, making assumptions with respect to rotor current to simplify the theory; but the actual current in the bars has remained a mystery. The purposes of this paper are: first, to present oscillograms of rotor-bar currents; second, to extend the theory of induction motors to include the computation of rotor-bar currents; and third, to show the effect of the rotor current harmonics upon the efficiency of the motor."
"The paper makes a comparison of permissible temperature rises for short-time and intermittent ratings and permissible rises for continuous ratings. It suggests methods for the application of short-time ratings to various typical classes of intermittent load conditions and presents for each of these classes ways and means for properly co-ordinating the ratings of the major devices (motors and generators) and the ratings of the auxiliary devices and conductors."
"I. Introduction IN practically all electrical apparatus use is made of the insulating properties of air. The electrical breakdown strength of air, for the electrode arrangements found in apparatus, depends upon air temperature, pressure and moisture content. This condition has long been appreciated and recognized in various standards for testing and for determining insulation ratings. However, the range and significance of the extreme conditions encountered, is not always appreciated. It is proposed, therefore, to consider the variations found in actual service and determine how well current standards and application practices cover these variations. In addition, the desirability of uniform application practices and reference ranges for different apparatus is suggested."
"On the basis of classification of impulse wave shape, the paper shows that impulse spark-over characteristics of electrodes with nonuniform fields cannot be represented by single volt-time curves but must be represented by volt-time areas of considerable extent. This classification explains the large difference obtained by various laboratories when investigating sparkover between one and five microseconds. The effect of impulse generator discharge circuits in producing these differences is explained. The necessity of insulation co-ordination on the basis of volt-time areas is pointed out."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"“For his contributions to the theory and design of a-c machinery and his work in the field of electric welding”, the AIEE Lamme Medal for 1940 was presented at the Institute's recent summer convention in Toronto to Doctor Adams who now is consulting engineer for the Edward G. Budd Manufacturing Company of Philadelphia, Pa. Th is was the thirteenth presentation of this medal, which was established by the will of the late Benjamin Garver Lamme for the recognition of “meritorious achievement”. THE purpose of giving any one a medal is to focus public attention on the recipient, so that his achievements may gain greater public appreciation, and young men may be inspired to emulate them. During the quarter of a century I have known Professor Adams, his qualities of mind and attitude toward life have been to me a continual source of inspiration, so it is of them that I wish to speak today. He has first and foremost been a teacher — not merely of his students, but of his associates. There are two ways of learning, of teaching, or of doing — the superficial way and the fundamental way. The first way is the most impressive. I remember well a professor who could answer almost any question immediately. If, however, he were asked a second question, going deeper into the subject, and then a third and a fourth, his answers became slower and less sure, until finally he could give no further information. His knowledge was only about six layers deep."
"Whether we have a world of chaos growing out of propaganda and blind thoughtlessness or a world of peace based upon fact and common sense, depends upon the individual, and the type of education to which he has been subjected, as Doctor Adams points out in his response to the presentation of the AIEE Lamme Medal at the summer convention in Toronto. DEEP down in the hearts of most of us is an ideal, towards which we are striving. We sometimes stumble and fall by the wayside, pick ourselves up and carry on. We often refer to this ideal as the spirit of the man, or the divine urge to be something better and finer than shows on the surface. A good portrait painter is the one who is able to bring out this spirit rather than to reproduce merely the superficial appearance. Mr. Alger is a good portrait painter, as he has given you a picture of what I would like to be. In other words, he has emphasized the best."
"Although Franklin conducted his famous lightning experiments about the middle of the 18th century, little more was learned until about a generation ago when lightning outages on expanding electric-power systems made an intensive study of the phenomena imperative. Many investigators in different parts of the world have studied lightning during that period, many special instruments have been devised for recording various characteristics of the phenomena, and from information obtained through the use of these instruments remedial measures have been devised — to the end that in spite of the continuously expanding network of electric-power lines, outages caused by lightning have been greatly reduced. In a series of three articles, the authors have reviewed and described: (I) the general characteristics of lightning, the accumulation of the charge, and the mechanism of the discharge; (II) instruments available for measuring the properties of lightning; and (III) results of field investigations in which the instruments described in part II were used. Part I appears on this and the following pages; parts II and III are scheduled for subsequent issues. THE physical manifestations of lightning have been with us from the remotest times, but only comparatively recently have the phenomena become even partly understood. Franklin in his electrical experiments between 1740 and 1750 succeeded in identifying lightning as the static electricity of his time. Beyond this fact little was learned until within the past 25 years. The real incentive to obtain additional knowledge lay in the necessity of the electrical industry to protect against its effects. As longer transmission lines were built the need for reduction in outages due to lightning became more acute. This placed more stringent requirements upon lightning arresters and other protective devices. Largely through the co-operation of the utilities and manufacturers and through the use of special instruments such as the klydonograph, cathode-ray oscillograph, surge-crest ammeter, Boys camera, and fulchronograph, information of a very valuable character has been obtained regarding stroke mechanism and the voltages and currents associated with lightning."
"More and more industrial applications are being found for the recently developed high-pressure tubular mercury-vapor lamps which are now available in lengths over five feet and with wattages greater than 4,000; some of these are described by the author, who discusses the advantages of these lamps over previously known sources of ultraviolet radiation. THE ADVENT of the high-pressure vapor lamp with self-lighting activated electrodes1,2 has made possible the development of new types of ultraviolet generators of high power and large size, which have become a very important tool for a number of industrial applications. First introduced in ultraviolet lamps for therapeutic and prophylactic use, the high-pressure quartz mercury-vapor lamp has been developed considerably further in size and power in recent years and is finding new and interesting uses in commercial irradiation processes. This development was facilitated by several important advantages which the self-lighting, high-pressure lamp offered over the previously known types of ultraviolet light sources; namely, mercury-vapor lamps of the pool type and carbon-arc lamps."
"American cities can profit by European experience to plan air-raid precautions that will permit traffic movement without creating undue hazards"
"The PCC trolley car, designed several years ago by a committee of street-railway-company executives, has now been in operation long enough to appraise its contribution to the industry. Its quietness, higher speed, improved operating characteristics, and greater passenger convenience and comfort as compared with older cars have attracted new passenger traffic, with the result that the general downward trend of traffic has been reversed on lines where these cars have been substituted for older ones. NOTHING in recent years has so completely changed the outlook of the transit industry as the PCC car. From 1931 to 1934 relatively few city surface cars were purchased. During the last six years almost 2,000 PCC cars have been purchased, as well as similar types which have essentially the same electrical equipment and represent similar improvement over the older vehicles. On May 1, 1941, 1,467 PCC cars were in operation in 14 cities of the United States and Canada. These cars had accumulated a total mileage of more than 146,000,000, or 100,000 miles per car. The 100 cars in Brooklyn, N. Y., had an average mileage of 188,000; the first 201 cars in Pittsburgh, Pa., 206,000; and the 83 cars in Chicago, Ill., 173,500. It is evident that sufficient experience covering a wide variety of conditions is available to form a reliable basis of judgment."
"IT goes without saying that I appreciate the great honor which the membership of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers has conferred upon me by electing me its president. In ordinary times we might let it go at that, but these are not ordinary times. The world is in flames and the instrumentalities that are being used to set it on fire are man-made by engineers. That throws down before all of us a double challenge. First, we must engineer adequate fire-fighting equipment; then, after the fire is out, we must construct a more fireproof world — one that is not full of “have nots” ever ready to destroy because they themselves have nothing to lose."
"A description of the nature and functioning of the National Roster of Scientific and Specialized Personnel, furnished through the courtesy of Doctor James C. O'Brien, executive officer of the Roster. Along with others, AIEE is actively co-operating in the development of the Roster."
"This paper describes the most recent of a series of studies on the life of watt-hour meter bearing materials. It covers an investigation of the effect of jewel crystalline axis orientation upon jewel wear. Lifetime stability of meter calibration is a function of bearing wear. A study of the wear (after several years' service) of the sapphire jewel cups of meters in relation to crystalline orientation confirms predictions of another investigator; and a corroborative theory, based upon the physics of crystals, is presented."
"The purpose of this paper is to provide the engineer with co-ordinated information and data regarding the dielectric breakdown of glass which will permit him to apply this insulating material more effectively for high dielectric strength. In the discussion of the subject, particular attention has been paid to “edge effects” and other factors which cause wide variations in breakdown voltages — variations which are responsible for many of the seeming inconsistencies found in published results on the dielectric failure of glass and other materials. The author has concluded that it is possible to make a reasonable approximation of the breakdown voltage of glass, if the conditions of the test or of the application can be sufficiently well determined. The characteristic breakdown curves of this paper do not represent the results of any one series of tests, but are rationalized from data selected from many sources, including unpublished tests. The data curves included refer mainly to Pyrex∗ glass, but corresponding data have also been included on electrical porcelain because of the interesting comparisons shown."
"Introduction IN the course of the starting, reversal, or normal operation of a polyphase wound-rotor induction motor, it occasionally happens that either the stator or the rotor or both may be allowed to operate single phase. In some cases it has been noted that the voltage of the open terminal or terminals under these conditions has a steady-state peak value well above its normal maximum. While scattered references to this effect may be found in the literature, and though the general subject of single-phase operation of polyphase induction motors has been discussed from time to time, apparently the magnitude of these voltages has not been the subject of a thorough and organized investigation. This paper is based on the results of a study, undertaken to determine analytically the maximum theoretical voltages of a three-phase induction motor under single-phase operating conditions, and, so far as possible, to check these calculated figures against actual test results."
"I. Introduction THE importance of fluid flow in aiding arc extinction in circuit interrupters has long been known. Two general types of explanation of the large effect found have been offered. Slepian1,2,3 who seems to have been the first to stress the importance of the motion of the gases liberated by the arc from the surrounding oil or solid insulation in oil breakers and expulsion fuses, sought the explanation in reduced arc section at current zero, and increased diffusion rate of ions and molecules arising from the turbulence. Other investigators have expressed similar views, at least in part.4,5"
"This is the first of a series of papers explaining the theory and principles of operation of the brush-shifting a-c motor. Operation of the machine, either as a motor or a generator, is explained on the basis of the superposition of currents. The theory of the primary current loci is developed for both high-speed and low-speed adjustments. A method of determining the primary current loci from no-load measurements is presented. Experimental data have shown the theory to be valid."
"In the preceding paper1 of this series, a simple theory underlying the circle diagram of the brush-shifting a-c motor was presented. It is the purpose of this paper to advance this theory, and to show how it can be used to determine such quantities as efficiency, current, torque, and speed for different conditions of operation. The procedures outlined and explained have been checked experimentally, and found to be accurate for both high-speed and low-speed adjustments."
"Although the three-voltmeter method for measuring the relative magnitude and phase angle of two voltages or currents is well known, the use of vacuum tube voltmeters, which draw negligible amounts of energy from the circuit, permits the use of the method for purposes which previously have not been considered. A further improvement of the scheme by balancing out one component of either voltage or current adds to the accuracy of the results. The method is considered for two purposes, namely: the measurement of the capacitance and power factor of imperfect condensers, and the measurement of the ratio and phase angle of current transformers."
"A device is described which records the ampere-squared seconds in an electrical impulse of less than 0.5-second duration. A number of these have been used in resistance-welding applications to monitor the electrical variables and have contributed greatly to the uniformity of welds. The problem of indicating 1/60-second impulses at the rate of 100 a minute with the same device that will correctly integrate a half-second impulse has been solved by the use of a moving element with an infinitely long natural period, combined with a supplementary circuit which returns the element to the starting position in a fraction of a second."
"The paper gives a general survey of the ability of glass bulb mercury-arc rectifiers to satisfactorily meet the stringent requirements of traction service. The subject matter is arranged on the assumption that engineers of the United States and Canada are not familiar with the use of this type of equipment for traction work, and the author has approached the subject from the point of view of an engineer considering the merits of different types of conversion equipment. Major features pertaining directly to glass bulbs are discussed such as plant capacity, maintenance, efficiency, robustness, etc., but no attempt is made to include wider problems common to mercury-arc rectifiers as a class, namely frequency changing, inversion, harmonics, etc."
"Introduction IN many regulating and control systems, the primary or actuating stimulus is available only at a low power level and must be amplified to obtain sufficient power output for the various control functions. This requirement, along with the increased use of automatic controls during the past few years has resulted in many industrial applications which require a simple, reliable power amplifier. Electronic tubes and special designs of rotating machines have been used for amplification where a continuous type of control is required, but in most applications it is difficult to justify the use of tubes or rotating amplifiers. Summary The principal design features, along with several typical applications, were described for a new form of mercury rheostatic element which has been designated as the “Mercurystat”. The unique features of the Mercurystat are its large number of hermetically sealed mercury contacts and the small force and travel required for their operation. It was shown that relatively large amounts of power can be controlled by the Mercurystat and because of the small input power required for its operation, power amplification in the order of 100,000 can be obtained. The performance of this new device along with its simplicity and absence of wearing moving parts should find many applications for it in automatic control systems."
"City transit motors operated today include many new mechanical and electrical features. Modern vehicles differ greatly from those of a decade ago and propulsion motors contributed substantially to the advances achieved. Meeting present-day needs has required designs for 300 and 600 volts involving extensive use of new materials, application to new types of drive, and suitability for dynamic braking. Mechanical design includes unusual developments in frame construction, method of mounting, lead arrangement, ventilation, housings, and bearings. Compactness has led to ingenuity in brushholder arrangement to secure accessibility. Armatures require judicious selection of materials for shafts, cores, and commutators as well as special seasoning and balancing procedure. Electrical design betterments have been introduced in armature slots, armature coils, field coils, and insulation. Provision for quietness and good commutation are also salient points. The new designs have resulted in high electrical and weight efficiency for series motors used on Diesel-electric busses, trolley coaches, and street cars in comparison with old type machines. Excellent commutation has produced outstanding stability at rapid accelerating and dynamic braking rates. Vehicle performance is exceptional with respect to safety, operating efficiency, available selection of accelerating and braking rates, and the broad speed range of the dynamic brake."
"A. Introduction IN order to obtain more information regarding the mechanism of electrical breakdown in insulating liquids, a number of experimenters1,2,3 have studied current flow as a function of applied voltage, using high-sensitivity d-c amplifiers with indicating instruments having relatively long-time constants. Such instruments will not follow rapid changes in current where the time intervals are of the order of milliseconds or less. Therefore we decided to investigate the possibility of using a cathode-ray tube as a current detector to follow current changes just preceding breakdown. This paper describes current measurements in liquids with 200-microsecond impulse voltage waves and current measurements in liquids and solids with gradually increasing unidirectional voltage applied to the specimens."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Application of Interrupting Devices. The method of calculating system short-circuit currents developed by the AIEE subcommittee on circuit breakers, switches, and fuses consists of determining the highest value of symmetrical short-circuit current for any type of fault as obtained by dividing voltage by subtransient reactance, and assigning multiplying factors according to the basis of rating and speed of operation of the equipment concerned (Transactions pages 877–81). To facilitate the use of this method in the application of circuit breaker, the short-circuit ratings of breakers should be correlated so that a breaker selected for adequate interrupting capacity automatically has ratings adequate for other related requirements (Transactions pages 882–4). Lightning Protection. The combination of overhead ground wires, transformer-mounted arresters, and line entrance gaps that has been found to provide effective protection from direct lightning strokes for high-voltage high-capacity stations usually is not economical for stations on sub-transmission systems where wood insulation is employed throughout; for these a high degree of protection can be achieved by the use of a reactor to compensate for the “turn-up” of the gap. (Transactions pages 898–900)."
"This first article in a series of four on the historical background of the metering art, sponsored by the AIEE committee on instruments and measurements, deals with origins and development up to 1900; the others, covering respectively (II) progress in the art from 1900 to 1925, (III) special applications, and (IV) calibration and installation of meters, will appear in future issues AN INDUSTRIAL ART is the adaptation through change or combination of material things both new and old to the accomplishment of some desired end. An essential ingredient is skill. Progress in an art is the integrated result of three major influences. First and most vital, there are the men who for one reason or another have become so deeply interested in accomplishing a given result that there is created a reservoir of human ingenuity sufficient to insure success. Second, there are the technological discoveries in other fields which give these men new materials, tools, and methods by means of which progress in their own art is accelerated. Third, there are the sociological trends, economical, political, and otherwise, which are largely responsible for charting the course to be followed. There is probably no better example of the working of these forces than the creation and subsequent progress of the art of metering electric energy. In the year 1879, through the genius, initiative, and industry of Thomas A. Edison, the incandescent electric lamp became a commercial reality. Three years later, on September 4, 1882, Edison put in operation the Pearl Street generating station in New York City."
"INDICATIVE of the rapid growth of the fluorescent-lamp industry is the $3,000,000 “black-out” plant completed in August at Fairmont, W. Va., by the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company. Built in less than five months, the first units of this plant comprise a single-story main factory building 224 feet wide and 885 feet long, auxiliary buildings, bus terminal, parking lot, and water reservoir, all fenced and floodlighted for protection. Initial production is scheduled to be 50,000 fluorescent lamps daily; ultimate 200,000."
"Maintenance of electrical equipment in a manner appropriate to its importance is urged as a means of combating an increasing proportion of industrial fires of electrical origin NO ONE will question the statement that electricity in its various uses is a potential source of fire hazard. It usually is kept well under control, but too frequently it “kicks over the traces” and so-called breakdowns occur, many times attended by excessive local heating which ignites insulation, and fire spreads to near-by combustible materials. After a fire starts, conditions determine its extent. Usually it is quickly put out, but sometimes it causes serious loss. It has been said that the lack of a horseshoe nail caused Napoleon to lose the Battle of Waterloo. A case is known where the breaking of some small washers needed to limit the travel of the movable contacts of an oil switch finally resulted in a fire which so damaged an exceptionally large manufacturing plant that 80 per cent of its power requirement was interrupted for about 1 1/2 days. Electricity is by far the principal cause of fire in the properties insured by the Associated Factory Mutual Fire Insurance Companies. For the year 1940, of all fires reported to them for which claim was made, 21.9 per cent were of electrical origin, and this figure does not include the losses to electrical equipment when lightning was the initial cause. About 5 per cent can be added if lightning losses are included. The amount of all electrical losses in 1940 was 13.9 per cent of the total loss occasioned by fires of all causes. No exceptionally large single electrical loss occurred last year, so the percentage happens to be fairly low. In 1939 it was 65 per cent of the total."
"Development of a cold-cathode X-ray tube makes it possible to make records on film of distortion inside objects opaque to visible light, thus supplementing high-speed photography THE interesting results attained by ultrahigh speed or flash photography are well known to newspaper and magazine readers everywhere. Distortion due to momentary strain can be shown in many familiar objects, such as golf balls and rapidly vibrating open relays. A new technique using X radiation instead of visible light makes it possible to record distortion or change in the interior of opaque objects as well as that visible on the outside. To make such radiographs at speeds of about one microsecond, enormous currents must be passed through the X-ray tube for that very short time interval. In the conventional hot-cathode X-ray tube, the available electron current is definitely limited by safe cathode temperature and space-charge effects. These limitations are avoided by the use of a cold-cathode X-ray tube recently developed in the Westinghouse lamp research laboratories at Bloomfield, N. J. In place of the conventional filamentary cathode, this tube employs a pair of cold electrodes G and H (figure 1). G is the true cathode and is so shaped and located with respect to its auxiliary electrode H that enormous potential gradients are built up when voltage is applied between these electrodes. Under the influence of these high gradients, a copious supply of electrons is obtained by cold emission from electrode G. Currents of from 1,000 to 2,000 amperes pass through the tube for periods of about one microsecond. The X-ray energy produced under these conditions is sufficient to produce radiographs of many objects in this short time interval, and consequently rapidly moving objects may be radiographed without blur caused by motion."
"Gases are being used to an increasing extent as insulating media for high-voltage equipment; this article reports the results of tests of the chemical stability of Freon, which has been found most satisfactory in such applications. PERHAPS the most effective means of increasing the compactness of high-voltage apparatus is the use of insulating media of higher dielectric strength. With the development of ultrahigh-voltage equipment1,2 a number of gases have been examined as to their qualifications as dielectrics. Among these is Freon, CCl2F2, a gas having a dielectric strength about three times that of air at the same pressure3,4,5 and a vapor pressure of 85 pounds per square inch absolute at 20 degrees centigrade. It is nonpoisonous, nonflammable, and noncorrosive under normal conditions."
"IN recent years, the application of vacuum-tube amplifiers in many fields has greatly increased. Amplifiers capable of handling frequencies in the range of from 40 to 15,000 cycles per second are common, and in the many applications where it is necessary to amplify signals of frequencies much less than 40 cycles per second, the low-frequency response has been obtained by rather elaborate compensating devices. However, even with compensation, there exists a still lower limit of frequency, below which satisfactory amplification with allowable phase distortion cannot be obtained. One solution of the problem has been the employment of some method of direct-coupling between the amplifier stages. In addition to direct coupling, modern design dictates that the amplifier should be capable of operating from a single a-c power supply. Figure 1 is a diagram of the circuits that have been used in the development of direct-coupled amplifiers particularly suited for use with the cathode-ray oscilloscope. This method of obtaining direct-coupled amplification uses neon tubes as the coupling elements. The necessity for an amplifying circuit which is inherently stable leads to the use of the degenerative cathode resistor. This circuit is particularly applicable where several amplifying stages must be operated from the same power source. The stabilized amplifier and its power supply are shown in figure 2."
"A number of special instruments have been developed to secure the information about lightning which utility system engineers must have if they are to devise adequate protection for the system. Such instruments are described in this second part of a series of three articles on lightning, of which part I appeared in the August issue, and part III is scheduled for next month. OF primary importance in the lightning protection of transmission lines is a knowledge of the magnitude, duration, and wave shape of the voltage and current surges appearing on utility systems. The characteristics of the stroke itself determine the resulting surges which occur on the electrical systems. Thus it becomes desirable to have instruments capable of measuring not only the system voltages and currents, but also the properties of the stroke. One difficulty encountered in the development of such instruments is the wide recording range both in magnitude and time that must be covered. Currents vary from a few amperes to 200,000 amperes. Portions of the wave change so rapidly that time intervals of the order of a microsecond need be measured, while at the same time the duration of the complete stroke may be longer than one second or 1,000,000 microseconds."
"Not only increased safety but added capacity for traffic is conferred on highways by adequate lighting. This seems proved by a report by W. P. Walker, assistant highway economist of the Public Roads Administration, published in “Highway Research Abstracts”, December 1940."
"A DIVERSIFIED PROGRAM has been arranged for the South West District meeting to be held at St. Louis, Mo., October 8–10, 1941. Seven technical sessions, a technical conference, and a general session are planned, in addition to various trips, sports, and entertainment. Meeting headquarters will be at the Coronado Hotel, which is centrally located and specializes in convention accommodations."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"“To provide adequate power supply for the Defense program in 1943, 1944, 1945, and 1946,” the Federal Power Commission presented to the President in July a program calling for the installation of nearly 13,500,-000 kw of new generating capacity over the four-year period. The Commission recommends that a subsidiary of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation be set up to place and finance orders for the necessary generating equipment. The 13,500,000 kw of new generating capacity is divided roughly into 8,600,000 kw for steam, chiefly for private companies, and 4,900,000 kw for hydroelectric power, mostly government-owned, 900,000 kw of which is assigned to the St. Lawrence Seaway project. Presented with the report was a tentative list of projects, a summary of which appears in the accompanying tabulation."
"The paper describes the installation and operating results of a bus protective scheme. which uses a combination of high-speed directional ground relays on all sources of fault current and high-speed plunger type blocking relays on all outgoing circuits. The scheme described is independent of the ratios and characteristics of the current transformers."
"INDUSTRIAL distribution systems to meet the needs of expanding plant facilities for war and defense production are a very live issue today, both in Canada and in the United States. A great deal has already been written on the subject in a general way, as a guide to the proper tailoring of plant distribution to the type of plant and plant production. The purpose of this paper is not to generalize, but to offer a short description of the distribution system installed in the recently expanded facilities of the Peterborough plant of the Canadian General Electric Company, with reasons for the choice made. Many plants at the present time must be faced with distribution problems similar to ours and we feel that our solution has possibilities of wide adoption. It is obviously equally applicable to a new plant."
"While frequency meters of prior type admirably serve the purpose for which they are intended, their construction has been such as to necessitate the use of an external reactor. This external reactor is in most cases not objectionable, but for certain applications, where space is at a premium, a self-contained instrument is preferable. This paper describes a frequency meter in which the external reactor has been eliminated by using an iron-core cross-coil instrument, the iron core serving the purpose of the normally external inductance, at the same time shortening the high reluctance air gap necessary for the moving coils."
"THE papers heretofore presented before the Institute on the subject of air blast circuit breakers have covered primarily their advantages in comparison with oil circuit breakers, the principles involved in current interruption by air blast, descriptions of interrupters developed by several manufacturing companies, the results of tests and related data. It is considered opportune to give an account of several other types of air blast circuit breakers ranging in voltage from 4 kv to 230 kv as developed and built by certain manufacturing companies in Canada and the United States in collaboration w th a large power company. The first machine of this general type was a 138-kv air blast breaker placed in service in 1934 at the Beauharnois generating station on lines to Montreal, this breaker having continued in service for six years successfully interrupting all faults; three additional breakers of the same general design with improved details have been placed in service at this station in later years. Breakers of four types built by three manufacturing companies, all breakers having certain general features in common, will be illustrated by photographs and diagrams. In all of the breakers described, the general design of interrupting contacts is the same. This arrangement of contacts is suitable for the use of arc chutes utilizing any one of the elementary principles of pneumatic arc extinction or combinations of such principles."
"CONSIDERABLE progress has been made toward the development of permanent magnets which are immune to disturbing conditions, such as temperature variation, mechanical vibration, natural aging, and extraneous flux fields. Contributions to this progress include new materials, improved processing techniques, and better manufacturing controls. Constancy of flux is in most applications quite essential. This is particularly true of electromagnetic damping, in which the damping torque varies as the square of the air gap flux. The permanent magnet of a watthour meter is an example. Despite the fact that the modern permanent magnet is remarkably stable, there have been cases in which the magnets showed changes in strength, generally becoming somewhat weaker. Isolated instances of such changes in watthour meter magnets have been found by the electric utility companies. Summary It has been shown that the problem of protecting permanent magnets from transient magnetic fields has been solved in a unique manner by the use of a new high-speed copper-plating process to apply a high conductivity copper shield over the conventional forged steel magnets. Desirable features of this solution are complete interchangeability between unshielded and shielded magnets; forged steel material is used, which is fairly easy to obtain and on which unlimited operating experience is available."
"THE current flowing in a short circuit in a simple a-c system can be expressed as a function of time in the form of three exponentially decaying components and a term which is substantially constant. These components are termed the subtransient, the transient, the d-c components, and the steady-state component. In actual systems all these terms are affected to some extent by the number of machines and the phase angles between them and also by their excitations. The phase relations between machines may change during the period of short circuit and thus introduce further complications. Automatic voltage regulators also introduce another factor which tends to increase the short-circuit current, since their action causes increase in machine excitation. Consequently, the accurate determination of short circuit current at any instant may be and usually is quite difficult."
"CIRCUIT breaker application is being simplified. A subcommittee of the protective devices committee of the AIEE has studied methods of calculating short circuit currents and has prepared a report which presents a simplified procedure based on standardized contact parting times and typical current decrements.1 To facilitate the use of this method, circuit breakers should have ratings which conform to the short circuit characteristics assumed in the calculations. At the present time, while the industry is preparing a revised list of short-time current ratings for circuit breakers, an opportunity exists to correlate the short circuit ratings so that a breaker selected for adequate interrupting current by the new method automatically has ratings adequate for the other short circuit currents. The rating of a power circuit breaker as given by AIEE Standard 19–200 includes the following items:"
"Lightning to the empire state building in New York City has been under investigation since 1935. Boys camera photographs of 62 strokes have been taken and 99 oscillograms. Twenty of these were taken simultaneously with photographs of the same stroke. Upward step leaders were discovered and continuing strokes were shown to be in the nature of a direct current arc. A brief résumé of the more important results up to the end of the 1937 season is given."
"DIELECTRIC strength is the property of insulation that is most important to the operating power companies. The factor of safety determined by the ratio of breakdown voltage to operating voltage must be maintained. Yet this breakdown voltage cannot be measured on a finished piece of insulation. Actual breakdown, except in the case of liquids, destroys the insulation. Overvoltage less than that required for breakdown has been found to injure the insulation and leave it with a reduced factor of safety. Non-destructive testing at overvoltage is feasible only if some electrical quantity, such as current, is measured and used as a sensitive indicator of incipient damage. The use of d-c overvoltage from a tube rectifier for cable testing is an example. Non-destructive testing of insulation, as currently practiced, is the measurement of certain electrical characteristics of the insulation, such as capacitance, dissipation factor,∗ and leakage resistance, at a voltage not greater than the operating voltage. Ordinarily a relatively low voltage at the operating frequency is used, 100 volts to 10 kilovolts. Of these three characteristics, dissipation factor has come to be considered the most reliable indicator of the condition of insulation. The standard practice is to measure the dissipation factor of insulation at the operating frequency at stated intervals of time after installation. A progressive increase of dissipation factor with time is believed to indicate deterioration of the insulation. Certain limiting values are set depending on the type of insulation. When these limits are exceeded, the insulation is removed from service. Frequently, greater weight is placed upon continual change in the value of dissipation factor than upon its absolute magnitude."
"The development of radio broadcasting in Canada has been very rapid and there are now 85 broadcast transmitters in daily operation. All broadcasting is under the control of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, an independent Government corporation, which in addition to its regulatory functions operates a coast to coast network connecting together, for a nationwide service, its own ten modern stations with almost half of the privately owned transmitters. It cannot therefore be said that radio in Canada is owned and operated by the Government as the CBC is independent and free to apply its revenues derived from licenses and commercial operation, in the best interests of its radio audience. The Canadian system is one of cooperation between a semipublic service and private ownership. Parliamentary enquiries have always found it the best suited to Canada's needs considering its vast area and relatively sparse population."
"THE AIEE transformer sub-committee has recently sponsored a paper1 on the protection of power transformers against lightning surges. The most effective method given combines overhead ground wires, line entrance gaps, and transformer mounted lightning arresters. Such a method does give a high degree of protection, but it is primarily applicable to high voltage, high capacity stations where the overhead ground wire system is justified for both line and station. The conditions noted above are seldom fulfilled on subtransmission systems from 23 kv to 34.5 kv. Effective ground wires and low ground resistances are uneconomical, and the protection provided is usually a more or less modern arrester, not always located and grounded to the best advantage. On the 23-kv subtransmission system of the Duquesne Light Company, the average transmission distance is approximately two miles. This means that most direct strokes will contact the line not more than one mile from some substation. Much of this transmission is now equipped with wood cross arm braces and guy insulators, and at some stations several spans adjacent thereto are carried on unguyed poles."
"A COLD cathode tube is a gas discharge device capable of serving as a relay, a rectifier, or a voltage regulator.1,2 It depends for its action upon the properties of gas discharges. The salient property employed is the fact that there is a difference between the breakdown voltage, or voltage necessary to initiate a discharge, and the sustaining voltage, or voltage drop across the tube when conducting. The principles involved are not new but a practical device capable of operating on voltages of 150 volts or less has awaited the relatively recent development of suitable cathode coating materials. The cathode surface employed at present consists of a coating of barium and strontium oxides applied to a nickel base. These oxides are partially broken down to barium and strontium metal during exhaust. During the operation of the tube the barium is continually removed from the cathode by sputtering and is replaced by further reduction of the oxide reservoir. The life of the tube is limited, therefore, by the amount of material present and by the rate of sputtering."
"THE purpose of this paper is to report on work undertaken in response to a request, made to the Institute, to determine the minimum dielectric strength of oil for high potential testing of oil circuit breakers. Many tests were made with 60-cycle and impulse voltages. The tests were made with a rod to plane gap, cone to disc gap, and on oil circuit breakers of commercial types and sizes. The results of these tests have been collected, analyzed, and are included in tabular form in the paper. The impulse strength of oil circuit breakers was found to be practically unaffected by the 60-cycle breakdown strength of the oil within the range of 16 to 30 kv, as measured in a standard test cup. The 60-cycle dielectric strength of oil circuit breakers is shown not to be changed in direct proportion to the differences in the dielectric strength of oil as measured in a test cup with 60-cycle voltage. The effect of low dielectric strength oil on voltage breakdown is discussed and conclusions are drawn which show that it is desirable to test all oil circuit breakers with oil having dielectric strength of 22 kv or higher."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Progress in the art since 1900 is discussed in this second in a series of four articles on the historical background of the art sponsored by the AIEE committee on instruments and measurements, the first of which appeared in the September issue DURING THE YEARS from 1900 to the present, the art of metering continued to develop. This period may be divided roughly into two parts: from 1900 to 1925; and from 1925 to the present. During the first part of the century progress was mainly in the direction of improvements in methods; after 1925 the art might be said to have reached its majority, but this does not imply that progress ceased. Meters were adapted to changing sociological requirements, and improvements in accuracy, accessibility, and durability continued to be made."
"In the development of new insulating materials, those which have large-scale application in other fields will prove most economical. Styrene, one such material, has decreased steadily in cost. IN 1937 the writer reviewed in some detail the history of polystyrene as an insulating material from 1913 onwards.1 The intervening four years have shown a marked increase in the use of styrene in the electrical field, as well as decided progress in technical control and application. In view of these achievements, it seems desirable once again to review the general situation. The question is sometimes asked, “Why concentrate on polystyrene?” There are undoubtedly other polymeric materials of undisputed merit, among them polythene and polyisobutylene. One can only point out that high-grade characteristics alone are not sufficient to cause commercial development and interest. Economics must be considered."
"A helpful tool not very generally known among engineers is the use of approximation methods for the solution of equations which cannot be solved algebraically; the author describes and illustrates two such methods. IN engineering work many of the equations or systems of equations that are encountered may be solved explicitly for the unknowns. Some of these solutions are well known, such as the formula for the roots of a quadratic equation in one unknown and the use of determinants in solving a system of linear equations in any number of unknowns. If it is very difficult or impossible to solve explicitly for the unknowns of a system of equations, some approximation method may be used. The first and perhaps best known of these approximation methods is the graphical method,1 which is easily understood but may be quite tedious and inaccurate, especially if more than one unknown is present. Horner's method is well known and is used to approximate the real roots of algebraic equations. Two other approximation methods are Newton's method1,2 and the iteration process.1 Although Newton's method is really an iteration process, the two will be considered separately in this article, the purpose of which is to explain the use of these two methods and to illustrate by means of typical engineering examples their application to the numerical solution of equations."
"In this concluding article in a series of three, field studies of lightning disturbances on electric-power systems, made with the aid of instruments described in part II (September issue), are reviewed. (Part I, in the August issue, reviewed the general characteristics of lightning phenomena.) The qualitative and quantitative information obtained in these studies has enabled remedial measures to be devised and the lightning performance of systems improved, thereby reducing the system outages from this cause. FROM the standpoint of the lightning performance of electrical systems the frequency of occurrence, as well as the magnitude and wave shape of the voltages and currents produced on systems, is important."
"A SUCCESSFUL Pacific Coast convention was held in the Canyon Hotel at Yellowstone National Park, August 27–29, 1941. The meeting was attended by 321 members and guests, a total which exceeds by 13 the average total attendance for the past 17 Pacific Coast conventions, not including those combined with the summer conventions. A conference on “After the Emergency, What?” was the feature of the program, which also included three technical sessions, two technical conferences, one general session, two student sessions, as well as a dinner and conference on student activities, and an informal convention dinner and dance."
"At a recent gathering of trade-journal editors in New York, N. Y., Robert E. McConnell, chief of the conservation unit, production division, Office of Production Management, Washington, D. C., outlined the situation regarding present and expected shortages of “critical” minerals and metals now being used in such large quantities in the National Defense program. The essential substance of Mr. McConnell's remarks follows."
"The paper is a theoretical treatment of the torsional damper which has been applied effectively to the protection of transmission line conductors from fatigue failures due to aeolian vibrations. The formulae of the energy dissipation are derived for three cases, viz., a single rigid damper, two rigid dampers at one end of a span, and a single damper with a resilient joint at the centre of gravity. The results are valuable in understanding the mode of operation of the torsional damper and point to certain optimum features of design. The formulae can be used for numerical calculations when the physical constants are known."
"Introduction THE protection of distribution transformers or other apparatus against lightning involves the basic problem of limiting the voltage applied to the insulation to a value adequately below the insulation strength. The effect on insulation of chopped waves and full waves of standard impulse wave shapes such as 1.5×40 microseconds has been thoroughly investigated in the past. However, there has been a lack of the information necessary to compare the effect of chopped waves with the effect of voltages of other than standard wave shape resulting from arrester breakdown followed by the impedance drop that occurs during the impulse current discharge. Also there have been little data available on the failure of low voltage insulation. For these reasons an investigation has been made using oil immersed solid insulation of a type used in distribution transformers. The puncture voltage and number of shots to failure were determined when the insulation was in parallel with lightning arresters or gaps which controlled the wave shape of the voltage applied to the insulation. These results have been correlated with the single shot puncture voltage determined from tests in which failure occurred on the wave front. It was found that repeated applications of voltages in excess of approximately 70 per cent of the single shot puncture voltage may damage the insulation."
"This paper describes the application of Hipersil to three 40,000 Kv-a units for the Philo generating station of The Ohio Power Company. Because of Hipersil's ability to carry one-third more magnetic flux, appreciable savings in weight and dimensions are possible — in fact, the transformers will be shipped in oil completely assembled with bushings in place, ready to operate. Forced-oil and forced-air cooling are provided, with proper relays for protection in the event of excessive copper temperature or failure of auxiliaries. Reliability, economy, ease of installation, and low maintenance have been the objectives sought in the design."
"IN these days of supersensitive amplifiers and recording apparatus, it is very tempting to define life and death in terms of electrical activity. Whether or not this concept is accurate, we can, on present knowledge liken living tissue to a B-battery and dead tissue to a burned out generator. The function of living tissue, however, is so closely allied with its electrical activity that knowledge of the latter has given us better understanding of the working of the human body. Great names in electrical engineering contributed to our knowledge of the physiology of tissues. Galvani in 1780 made the really startling observation that the muscle of a frog's leg could be made to contract when stimulated with the voltage from the crude Voltaic pile. That the muscle itself, on contracting, gave off a charge of its own was shown in 1870 by D'Arsonval, who noted the deflection of the needle when the muscle contracted across the poles of his galvanometer. Summary D.C. potentials are associated with static cellular life and are a product of metabolism. A.C. potentials are associated with many tissues controlling or responding to movement. Brain tissue is the most highly developed and exists normally in a state of constant, irregular electrical activity."
"I. Introduction THE double-fed asynchronous machine has become important in recent times as fan drive with wide speed range. The system consists of five main machines and the fan (see figure 1). It has many springs, masses, and dampings and therefore many natural frequencies. In order to determine these frequencies, i.e. the dynamic stability of the system, the damping and synchronizing torques of all parts of the system have to be known. Some papers have been published concerning the torques of the synchronous machine. It is easy to determine torques for the D.C. machines of the system. The object of this paper is to derive formulas for the damping and synchronizing torque of the double-fed asynchronous machine. As in the case of the synchronous machine, a complicated derivation and complicated results cannot be avoided."
"This paper grades several three-phase combinations of instrument transformers and watthour meters under various conditions according to their approach to the best standard practice. The combinations are described and sources of uncertainty or of error are discussed. Diagrams are included to show the schematic connections of the component transformers and meters, both separately and in combination and of the power systems to be metered."
"Testing cables by means of the impulse generator, originally developed for use in studying the effect of lightning on cables, is becoming recognized more and more as a useful method for determining cable quality. It is felt that the amount of data accumulated during the past ten years is sufficiently large to be used in formulating a theory concerning the factors governing the impulse strength of cables. It is indicated in this paper that maximum rather than average stress should be taken into account when impulse test results are evaluated, since the maximum stress at breakdown is a measure of the quality of the insulation alone. This view is contrary to that generally accepted in this country although some workers in this field abroad have accepted this theory for some time."
"THE use of dielectric loss and power factor for testing the insulation of electrical equipment in service position in the field with one side grounded began with the advent of the apparatus and method described in this paper. Through its use, tables of standard values have been set up indicating when insulation is “good” for continued operation with an adequate factor of safety or when it is “bad” to a degree that warrants investigation and possible replacement in order to insure continuity of service until the next scheduled test. Types of insulation that were being discarded as inherently bad, judged by their high failure record, now are being re-established as good insulation after the tests have shown the defects to be largely of a secondary nature and removable or curable."
"MORE complete information on the dielectric characteristics of high-voltage bushings has been obtained from power-factor tests by extending the test voltage above the values generally used and by supplementing the ordinary power-factor tests with laboratory examinations of deteriorated bushings. Most power-factor tests on high-voltage bushings have been made at a relatively low voltage, about 10 kv, regardless of the operating voltage of the bushing. These tests have been valuable in determining the general condition of the insulation. But by extending the test voltage to higher values, even above the operating voltage, it has been possible to detect defects in new bushings which would shorten their useful life and to detect certain types of deterioration in older bushings, both of such a nature that they are not shown by a low-voltage test. Laboratory examinations of deteriorated bushings have been valuable in determining the nature, extent, and cause of bushing deterioration. Such information is needed to properly evaluate power-factor test results. Summary The value of power-factor tests on bushings at higher voltages has been demonstrated. Tests at low voltages, while valuable, are inadequate. The power-factor and capacitance vs. voltage characteristics at voltages up to or above the operating voltage are important in judging the condition of the insulation. The nature of bushing deterioration and the significance of high power factor have been shown by laboratory examinations. The findings help to establish a basis for power-factor limits, and for improvements in design and maintenance."
"THE development of the ignitron type of mercury arc rectifier, with its outstanding advantage in efficiency, introduced the need of a new type of excitation circuit. For the theory of how the arc is initiated, the reader is referred to the previous papers on ignitrons.1,2 Associated with each anode of an ignitron rectifier is an ignitor for initiating the arc. Each ignitor requires a positive impulse of current once each cycle to start the arc at the beginning of the conducting period of the main anode. In order to accomplish control of the output voltage of the rectifier, it must be possible to adjust the phase position of these impulses with respect to the supply voltage, either manually or by automatic provisions. Although the instantaneous current and power of the impulses are quite high, the impulse duration may be such that the average power is low and does not seriously affect the efficiency of rectifiers with the ratings usually encountered. If an excitation system such as “main anode” is used with which only enough energy is applied to the ignitor each cycle to ignite the arc, the average power is very small. However, with separate excitation systems, every impulse must have the same energy and this must be adequate to ignite the arc under the most adverse conditions encountered."
"Up to the present time current transformer performance has been described by curves which show ratio error and phase angle over a range of current at various values of burden, (ohms) power factor, and frequency. The number of curves that are required to cover all possible conditions is so great as to render them, by their very bulk, practically useless. Another limitation is that they do not describe performance under transient conditions. Performance of other types of transformers and certain other apparatus is invariably calculated from a few easily measured constants, according to simple standard formulas. Up to the present time, available methods for calculation of current transformer performance have had the disadvantage of either being difficult to use, or of depending on constants difficult to measure, or else they have not been sufficiently accurate for general use. A method is described which depends on the following constants: 1. Open-circuit saturation curve measured in the usual way. 2. Secondary coil resistance. 3. Equivalent leakage reactance calculated from the voltage of an exploring coil enclosing the maximum value of leakage flux. The method includes several important short cuts in the calculation which reduce the numerical work to a practical minimum. Curves are plotted which allow direct reading of the exact components of exciting current which cause ratio error and phase angle. The objects of the paper are: 1. To present a practical method of calculation. 2. To establish constants (1), (2), and (3) as the fundamental quantities which determine real excellence of the transformer."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This is the first of a series of three related articles which together will present a review of the progress made in the past decade in the protection of electric power-system circuits and equipment This article, concerned with circuit-interrupting devices, has been prepared under the auspices of the AIEE committee on protective devices. The other two articles, dealing with protective relaying and lightning protection respectively, are scheduled for later issues Power Circuit Breakers PROGRESS in the last ten years in power circuit breakers has been rapid and has been principally along the following lines: 1. Development of increased interrupting capacity to meet the increasingly severe duties imposed by the large power concentrations. 2. Increased serviceability to permit automatic reclosing and more operations between maintenance periods. 3. Reduction of interrupting time, which increases interrupting capacity and reduces system disturbances under fault. 4. Development of ability to handle severe reclosing duty cycles at large fractions of maximum rating. 5. Improved bushing designs, increased usefulness of bushing current transformers, and the introduction of bushing potential devices for relaying and other purposes. 6. Introduction of oilless types, especially for indoor service."
"TWO self-powered cars, Diesel-electric driven, make up a new kind of train which the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad is putting into operation between Denver, Colo., and Salt Lake City, Utah. Called the “Prospectors”, these small trains, with a capacity of 62 passengers, contain the full range of accommodations provided in full-length trains. Designed and built by the Edward G. Budd Manufacturing Company, each car is 75 feet long and weighs approximately 130,000 pounds ready to run. Two more cars may be added to each train if desired. Two Diesel engines suspended beneath each car supply power, each engine driving a generator which in turn feeds two of the four propulsion motors on the car. The engines, each rated at 192 horsepower at the top operating speed of 1,600 rpm, are six-cylinder four-cycle full Diesel engines of the horizontal type. They are started by special windings in the traction generators, no separate starting motors being required. The motors are truck-mounted, co-supported by axle through the gear case and by spring at motor end, drive being by means of spiral bevel gears."
"FLUORESCENT LAMPS, because of their high efficiency and good color characteristics, are ideal for lighting airplane cabins, especially because many ships are equipped with 400-cycle 120-volt generating plants. Efficiency of low-voltage fluorescent lamps at 400 cycles is approximately 20 per cent greater than at 60 cycles, or about four times as great as the efficiency of incandescent lamps ordinarily used in airplanes. Power factor is roughly 7 1/2 per cent higher at 400 cycles than at 60; lamp control apparatus becomes simple, small, and relatively light in weight. Using the lamps at this increased efficiency makes possible reductions in the weight of wiring, power plant, and fuel that must be carried for operating the power plant. Probably these weight reductions offset the added weight of fluorescent lamps and controls. As planes increase in size, and consequently have greater lighting loads, fluorescent lamps should contribute to reductions in both weight and operating cost."
"This third in a series of four articles on the progress of the art, sponsored by the AIEE committee on instruments and measurements, deals with specialized applications of the basic energy-metering unit; the concluding article will appear in December THE BASIC energy-metering unit, the single-element meter containing one potential coil and one current coil, has been discussed in the first two sections of this report. A report of this nature, however, requires that certain specialized applications of this basic unit be given consideration. Such applications are: its modification in order to measure energy in three-wire circuits; its use in multiple to measure energy in polyphase circuits; and, with further modifications, the development of a demand meter that would differentiate between varying types of customer use and more accurately reflect the cost of furnishing service."
"“One of the most important tools necessary to plants directly or indirectly affiliated with the national defense program is good and sufficient lighting.” So states Plant Engineer Edward C. Bertram of North American Aviation, Inc., in an article “Vital Need of Modern Lighting in Industry” published in The Magazine of Light, issue number 4, 1941. Representative of the lighting intensities used in Mr. Bertram's plant, the following are reported:"
"A THREE-DAY MEETING of the AIEE Southern District will be held in New Orleans, La., December 3–5, 1941. Headquarters will be in the St. Charles Hotel, which is centrally located within the business and theatrical section of the city and within a few steps of the historic Vieux Carre."
"Representatives of 125 prime contractors of national-defense products and 4,600 subcontractors met September 22–24 in New York, N. Y., in a subcontracting “clinic” held under sponsorship of the Office of Production Management. Some 2,600 subcontracts are expected to develop out of the contacts made between the larger and smaller firms."
"Two methods of identifying three-phase conductors, voltages, and currents are in general use today. One method, used extensively on power systems and based on 30° voltage relations, is called “standard” nomenclature.1,2,3 The other method, used frequently for analytical purposes and based on 90° voltage relations, is called “symmetrical” nomenclature.4"
"Widespread interest in transient recovery voltage phenomena has led to the development of a device for determining the recovery characteristics of circuits and apparatus. The problem was solved by making use of the multiple surge testing technique which, in turn, involves the use of a low voltage repeating type surge generator. This paper describes the method and necessary equipment and indicates the range of conditions to which they may be applied. Demonstration tests on miniature and full scale circuits are also shown."
"IN the modern interconnected power system the steam turbine governor plays a very important role. Its performance has an important bearing on system stability, effect of load swings, tie line load control, frequency regulation, and other related phenomena. Consequently, within the last few years there has been an increasing interest in the subject of steam turbine governor performance. Numerous papers1 dealing with this subject presented at recent AIEE and ASME meetings provide ample evidence of this increased interest. These papers and the discussions which they have elicited reveal a need for improved means of obtaining complete and accurate measurements of turbine governor performance characteristics. Operating engineers and turbine governor designers alike have felt the need for better measuring instruments. The principal concern of the central station engineer is the maintenance of a high quality of service for his consumers with the minimum operating cost. Accurate measurements of governor characteristics will often reveal imperfect operation and suggest means for improving performance or for increasing operating efficiency. The designer, on the other hand, is concerned with meeting the customer's requirements as to the operating characteristics of the governor. He must also contend with such design problems as the stability of the governor as a speed regulator, and the elimination of spurious effects such as may be caused by friction, mechanical imperfections in fly-ball governors, and by fluctuations in oil supply pressure in hydraulic governors. As a result of the designer's more recent efforts, the modern turbine governor has been developed to a point where existing measuring instruments are no longer adequate for determining its performance. The art of turbine control has, in fact, progressed to a stage where further major improvements are dependent to a considerable extent upon greatly improved instrumentation."
"If ground fault coils are used in high tension overhead systems and underground cable networks, earth leakage relays may be employed to indicate the location of single ground faults. The influence of the contact resistance at the point of the ground is explained. Earth leakage relays in compensated networks, their operation in radial and meshed networks, and the means for determining their correct operation by tests, are described. The paper is based on the practical experiences gained from such installations in England and in Continental Europe."
"FOREST protection in the United States is a job of considerable magnitude. There are, roughly, 550,000,000 acres, which are equal to the area east of the Mississippi River, exclusive of Wisconsin and Illinois, under intensive protection against forest fires. Moreover, there are an additional 138,000,000 acres needing organized forest protection. Of this vast area, state and private agencies are responsible for about 279,000,000 acres, the U. S. Forest Service for about 208,000,000, and other Federal Government agencies for about 60,000,000 acres."
"PRODUCTION requires power. The urgent necessity of meeting the immediate demands for electric power — due to national defense and natural growth — has created a challenge to the planning engineers. Local loads are increased and additional loads established, resulting in shifting of load centers. Such changes require increased generating and transmitting facilities. To provide for this expansion in power supply requires accurate planning to avoid waste of time, materials, or effort. The first step is the quick solution of all the electrical problems. The A-C. network calculator provides accurate means for solving these problems. Therefore, it is appropriate to present the newly perfected features of the latest A.C. network calculators. These provide the means and methods for faster and more accurate analysis of existing or planned power systems and the solutions of electrical design and operating problems. The essential elements of a power system are reproduced in miniature replica, as illustrated pictorially in figure 1 for a simple radial feed from generator to load. The calculator reproduces systems with many generators or generating stations, transformers, lines, and loads. Readings of the miniature network on the calculator are readily converted into actual system quantities."
"THIS report contains the performance data for the line type arresters rated 20 to 73 kv. The characteristics of line type arresters were submitted as a committee report in AIEE Transactions, volume 57, 1938 (November section), pages 661–2. The lightning arrester subcommittee felt that it was desirable to bring the data up to date at this time; also, that the characteristics of the arresters should be made available for discharge currents up to 20,000 amperes, as well as a curve showing the volt-time gap breakdown characteristics. The data in this report were obtained from the data submitted by the manufacturers for their respective products. The average values in the report are the average of the manufacturer's average values. The tolerance from average curve was found to be &pm;25% for arrester breakdown and &pm;20% for arrester IR discharge voltage."
"THE equipment and methods to be described have been developed to meet a need for a simple and effective means of photographing recurring or non-recurring waves viewed on the screen of the cathode ray oscillograph. The recording camera is simple and easy to operate and very economical of film. The recording method also provides for photographing any number of voltage or current waves, and later comparing the phase angles of all the waves. This oscillograph is designed primarily for slow speed work, particularly on waves of 60 cycle fundamental frequency, and in this feature is entirely different from the high speed cathode ray oscillograph described by Kuehni and Ramo.1 The cathode ray tube used is a high vacuum, seven inch screen tube. The screen is of the “fast” type with a highly actinic spot of short persistence. A suitable enclosing sheet steel case and a separately boxed 3,000 volt d-c power supply unit were constructed. When the equipment is used for visual work, sweep voltage is applied to one pair of deflecting plates from an independent sweep circuit."
"HIGH-voltage apparatus insulated by compressed gas requires the use of solid insulating supports. It is generally recognized that even in a uniform field the flashover voltage of such solid insulation is considerably lower than for the gas-filled gap of equal length. An increase in the allowable gradient along such insulators would in general result in a reduction in the size, weight, and cost of gas-insulated apparatus, and must therefore be considered an important and fundamental objective of high-voltage engineering. It is probable that the flashover strength of solid insulators may be brought closer to that of the gases in which they are immersed, or to their inherent volume breakdown strength, through a better understanding of the influence on insulator flashover of such factors as material, surface condition, corrugations, and gas pressure. Most of the scant literature on this subject is restricted to relatively low alternating voltages, small samples of solid dielectrics, or to special insulator shapes in non-uniform fields.1 Reher studied the flashover of plain cylinders of ebonite, paraffin, and porcelain in dry air at pressures up to 15 atmospheres, using alternating voltages up to 140 kv maximum.2 Goldman and Wul3 have investigated the flashover of plain ebonite cylinders in nitrogen with alternating voltages up to 125 kv maximum and pressures up to 20 atmospheres. The present paper reports d-c flashover values up to 250 kv across short cylindrical insulators placed in the uniform field between metallic electrodes. These studies were made on both plain and corrugated cylinders of three dissimilar insulating materials immersed in dry nitrogen at gauge pressures up to 400 lbs. per square inch."
"Introduction IN September 1932, the writer presented a method of designing capacitor motors, known as the “balanced” method. Since that time an improvement on that method has been devised which has certain definite advantages."
"THE problem of controlling and restricting the temperatures of motor windings, is of vital importance to the motor manufacturer, the motor user, and the general public. The motor manufacturer is anxious to have winding temperatures restricted to a safe value, so that his products may have customer acceptance. The motor user is interested in winding temperatures because they affect motor life and maintenance cost. The general public is not conscious of any interest in the matter, but is certainly affected in all cases where excessive temperatures result in fire hazards. In the early days of the industry, motors did not have adequate protection against overheating, because suitable protective equipment was not available. Motor circuits were fused, but the fuses had to be large enough to accommodate the motor starting current and were, therefore, too large to properly restrict the running current or protect the windings. However, the lack of proper protection was partially offset by the special attention which was given motors by their owners and attendants. Summary Motor protectors are selected and applied so that they restrict the motor winding temperature to specified values at normal voltage and frequency and a room temperature of 40 °C. The accompanying table shows the probable increase (or decrease) in winding temperatures which may occur on account of abnormal voltages, frequencies, or ambient temperatures, or with restricted ventilation."
"This paper presents the results of an investigation made to determine and evaluate the effect of the factors affecting neutral instability of Y-grounded potential transformer circuits. The method used employs the medium of miniature system representation. The results therefore include the effect of saturation. The effects of the shape of the saturation curve, normal operating voltage, resistance of the winding, system capacitance, and impedance in the broken A secondary or across each phase are illustrated. Regions of instability are shown which should be avoided in applying Y-connected potential transformers as ground fault detectors. The analysis shows by means of oscillograms the conditions under which incorrect indications of faults may be obtained."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"AIEE Standards Pamphlet No. 1A entitled “General Principles for Rating of Electrical Apparatus for Short Time, Intermittent, or Varying Duty,” recently was issued in report form for study and comment. In this article, the chairman of the committee that prepared the report discusses its significance, for the purpose of stimulating discussion of this important topic. Contributions to the Letters columns are invited."
"THREE DEVELOPMENTS of co-ordinated research stand out as major factors in the General Electric Company's noteworthy achievement of a 1,000-kv portable industrial X-ray equipment: (a) dichlordifluormethane (“Freon”) instead of air or oil as an electrical insulating medium; (b) a compact air-core resonance transformer; (c) a multisection X-ray tube small enough to be accommodated within the core space of the transformer. The result of the development and combination of these and other elements is the 1,500-pound self-contained million-volt equipment shown on the front cover and these pages. An extended investigation of the electrical insulating properties of many gases and chemical vapors disclosed that some of them not only were far superior to air at equivalent pressures, but also provided better insulation than oil and were much lighter in weight. One of these special gases which is readily available and which has good physical and chemical properties is dichlordifluormethane (Freon). It has 2.5 times the insulating strength of air at equivalent pressures."
"From tungsten ore to assembled lamp, the production of a Mazda lamp at the Westinghouse lamp factory at Bloomfield, N. J., is here surveyed"
"At Broadacres Farm in Lebanon, N. J., extensive use of ultraviolet radiation is reported to be producing milk of a superior quality — a bacteria count of less than 1,000 per cubic centimeter whereas grade A pasteurized milk allows for 30,000 bacteria per cubic centimeter and grade B 100,000. Two two-hour sunbaths per day — one beginning at five in the morning and the other beginning at six in the evening — are given to all milk cows through the medium of S-4 lamps hung o n six-foot centers eight feet above the floor down the main aisle of the barn."
"This article concludes the series on the metering art sponsored by the AIEE committee on instruments and measurements; the complete report is being issued in pamphlet form for immediate distribution, details on page 597 A VITAL ASPECT of the art of metering electric energy is the calibration, installation, and maintenance of the meter that measures this energy. This constitutes an important contact between the utility company and its customers. The diligence with which, since the origin of the art, methods and techniques have been developed and pursued to insure a high degree of accuracy has done much to create on the part of the customer a feeling of confidence in the meter by means of which his charge for the service rendered is computed."
"This is the second of a series of three related articles which together present a review of the progress made in the past decade in the protection of electric power-system circuits and equipment. This article, concerned with protective relaying, has been prepared under the auspices of the AIEE committee on protective devices. The first article of the series, concerned with circuit-interrupting devices, was published last month; the third, dealing with lightning-surge protective devices and the protection of systems against lightning, is now in preparation and is scheduled for publication in a later issue. JUDGING from the external appearance of relays, one might conclude that protective relaying was an unromantic and prosaic subject. Here are a lot of little devices that spend most of the time sitting still, with not even the little eye-appeal of the moving pointer of an instrument or the passing black spot on the disk of a watt-hour meter. Yet compacted within these small cases is the fruit of the labor of many minds, in such form that, when called upon to function, relays take a set of observations, perform a lightning calculation, and act, all within 1/20 of a second. Put in more technical terms, the general objectives of protective relaying are: (a) the limitation of damage to electric equipment, and (b) the maintenance of adequate service with reasonably low investments in generation, transformation, transmission, and distribution equipment. In order to obtain these objectives, the protective-relay system must detect positively the occurrence of a short circuit, determine enough about its location to permit selection of the breakers which must be opened, and control the opening of only those breakers necessary to remove the fault from the system — all in a time short enough to limit equipment damage and reduce system disturbances to a reasonably low value."
"Recently installed at the Denver, terminal of the Public Service Company of Colorado, this 13,800-volt synchronous condenser is hydrogen-cooled, and operates at 900 rpm"
"Supplementing the technical papers that have been preprinted from the 1941 volume of AIEE Transactions in the monthly Transactions sections of Electrical Engineering for July to December inclusive, a December 1941 “Supplement to Electrical Engineering — Transactions Section” is being issued. This is the second supplement to be issued in 1941, the first being the June 1941 supplement. Both represent the operation of the improved publication procedure adopted at the 1940 AIEE summer convention (EE, Aug. '40, p. 331–2)."
"Speaking at the recent annual dinner of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development, AIEE Representative J. F. Fairman considered his own experience and in that light proffered some pertinent suggestions as to the respective responsibilities of Council, the participating organizations, and the representatives of the latter. The essential substance of Mr. Fairman's address is contained in the following report."
"I — Introduction NEED for a practical as well as a reliable nondestructive test that will determine the condition of generator insulation has long been recognized by the industry. Simple methods now in general use, the high voltage proof test and the insulation resistance test, do not accurately or positively disclose the overall condition of windings, indicate the degree of deterioration, or necessarily locate weak spots. This lack of suitable insulation tests has been emphasized recently by the return to service of a number of machines either after long shutdown periods during the depression years or from standby service to low pressure elements used in connection with topping units; in these cases knowledge of insulation condition is vital. As a result of this situation the Edison Electric Institute electrical equipment committee undertook active work on the problem in 1935.1 In 1937 a special subject committee was appointed on “Generator Insulation and Testing,” with the ultimate object of developing a reliable test procedure for determining the condition of generator insulation. The investigation has been carried out by various member companies of the EEI and others in the industry interested in the problem, under the guidance of the subject committee. Close contact has also been maintained with the manufacturers who have made many valuable suggestions, assisted in testing, and given aid in analyzing data. The study is by no means complete and this paper should not be construed as a final report with definite conclusions, but rather as a progress report on an investigation still under way."
"The quality of electric service as reflected through variations in motor speeds resulting principally from voltage surges is about as important to many manufacturing processes as is the continuity of such service. This paper sets forth the effects of voltage surges on an extremely speed-sensitive manufacturing process and describes how the effect can be minimized to the extent of becoming harmless. Test data are given which show the effects of voltage surges, of varying duration and magnitude, on the process, and the voltage surge is shown engraved in the finished product as the purchaser sees it. The maximum tolerable driving motor speed variation, without impairment to the product, is established and means are described for preventing a greater variation irrespective of the voltage surge intensity. An alarm system is described which is capable of instantly responding when variations in speed exceed tolerable limits. Use of a synchronous condenser, to supply energy during the interim of severe voltage disturbances or brief power failures, is effective in preventing motor-speed variations from exceeding the tolerable limits. These and other recent improvements will provide highly reliable electric service for the requirements of those manufacturing processes which are very exacting as to speed variations."
"Impulse and 60-cycle breakdown strength of sphere gaps, rod gaps, and of samples built up of solid and fluid dielectrics are reported. The tests were made in nitrogen up to 200 pounds per square inch gauge pressure and in Freon up to 70 pounds per square inch gauge pressure. Dielectric strength values were compared with the breakdown of transformer oil between the same electrodes. Gap conditions were found for which the 60 cycle breakdown was twice its impulse breakdown."
"The increasing spread of distribution systems in which fault protection is afforded by fuses has resulted in long outages and high maintenance costs. Excellent coordination is possible with modern fuses, but their inability to differentiate between a permanent and a temporary fault results in frequent outages and costly service trips. A new automatically reclosing circuit breaker with pronounced inverse time current tripping characteristics makes possible an improved radial distribution system in which outage and maintenance are reduced to a minimum. The effectiveness of coordination is increased to a point where an outage is confined to the immediate neighborhood of a permanent fault. Service trips are no longer necessary unless there is a permanent fault condition to be removed from the system."
"An approximate solution is obtained for the current in a short-circuited coil or group of coils in the armature of a synchronous machine operating under load. The solution is expressed as the sum of a series of harmonics whose terms are in geometric ratio. The results obtained are similar in form to those previously obtained for the short circuit of a complete phase winding, and they reduce to that for the single-phase short circuit in the limiting case when the coil group comprises a complete phase. An experimental check of the theory is given for the case of a short circuit of a single armature coil, and it is shown that close agreement is obtained between theory and test with respect to the fundamental component of current, though not with respect to the small higher harmonics of current."
"A transient swing above synchronous speed has been observed when a certain standard squirrel cage induction motor was started without load. This paper presents an explanation of the phenomenon based on the frequency modulation of the power supply caused by the rapid variation of the power taken from the line. Mathematical relations are developed and applied to the operating conditions of this motor. The agreement of the mathematical and test curves indicates that the explanation is basically correct although some secondary effects, not considered, may be present."
"Complex periodic functions, when transformed into a corresponding voltage wave, may be analyzed with the use of a cathode ray oscillograph. The complex wave is represented upon the fluorescent screen of the cathode ray tube by a vertical displacement at the same time that a sinusoidal horizontal oscillation exists. If the frequency of the sinusoidal oscillation bears an integral relation to the fundamental frequency of the complex wave, a Lissajous figure is viewed on the screen. The areas of these Lissajous figures are directly related to the coefficients of the Fourier series of the complex wave. The area is determined by measuring a photograph of the figure using a polar planimeter. The method is based on the theory developed by Mr. L. W. Chubb in connection with the Chubb Polar Analyzer.4 Advantages of the method are that it is quick and convenient, only standard laboratory equipment is necessary, and with special equipment, it promises to make possible the analysis of ultrahigh frequency waves."
"In the past several years there have been offered a number of calculation methods to be used in connection with predetermining the performance of single-phase induction motors. While such methods are usually based upon either the cross field or the revolving field theory, they differ from each other according to individual preferences. In the present paper there is proposed a method which seems to be convenient and simple, and which, because of symmetry, involves a minimum of charts in carrying out the necessary calculations. The method is proposed because it has been used in one design department for a number of years and found to be very satisfactory as a practical method."
"This paper describes a reclosing relay for oil circuit-breaker control which is new in design, new in function, and new in operation. It was designed and built with additional features to meet certain reclosing requirements which cannot be obtained by use of standard reclosing relays. These reclosing requirements, brought about by complete automatization of high-voltage oil circuit-breakers in transmission networks and on lines containing automatic sectionalizing air-break switches, are herein described. Also several schemes of time-sequence-coordination are given for the operation of oil circuit-breakers with automatic line sectionalizing air-break switches. Of special interest is a scheme for materially reducing fuse outages, which utilizes the described reclosing relay for coordinating the operations of a breaker with fuse operations on the line served by the breaker."
"THE formula for the inductance per unit length of two parallel conductors of rectangular cross section, obtained by using the formal expressions for the geometric mean distance of a rectangle to itself and the geometric mean distance between two rectangles with sides parallel, is exceedingly cumbersome. More than a score of logarithms and arc tangents must be evaluated when computing the inductance for a given conductor spacing and cross section. To circumvent such lengthy calculations when computing the reactance of like parallel rectangular strap conductors, Dwight1,2 has published curves, each plotted for a certain conductor spacing and cross section, from which the reactance can be obtained. Unless, however, the conductor spacing and the ratio of conductor thickness to breadth coincides with those values for which the curves are plotted, interpolation is necessary. Recently Roth3 has expressed the inductance of such lines in the form of a rapidly converging series, the parameters of which are the spacing and dimensions of the conductors. Usually, a few terms of this series suffice to yield a value of inductance sufficiently accurate for all design purposes. As regards rectangular tubular conductors, the only analytical literature is a paper by Dwight and Wang4 giving formulas for thin square tubular conductors. These are derived on the assumption that the conductor walls are so thin that the sides can be considered as but line segments. The geometric mean distances for such segments are then used to calculate the inductance. Such a procedure is equivalent to asserting that the current flows solely on the surface of the conductors. It follows, then, that the values of inductance computed on this basis will be less than the actual values. Consequently, while these formulas suffice for many calculations on square tubular conductors, if accuracy is a desideratum of design this minimization of thickness restricts the range of application of these formulas to very thin square tubular conductors. Recognizing this restriction and noting, further, that commercial conductors have rounded corners, Dwight and Wang give formulas, empirically deduced, from which corrections for thickness and for rounded corners can be calculated."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Conventional methods of transmission are analyzed and discussed both for existing transmission distances up to about 300 miles and for greater distances up to a full wave length; also eight different methods that have been proposed for increasing the loading per circuit or distance to which a-c power can be transmitted are discussed. Of these methods, series compensation of the line reactance appears to be the most favorable for straightaway distances up to about 600 to 700 miles at 60 cycles. The problem is analyzed mathematically and with the aid of an a-c network analyzer. Curves are included which give the power limits and reactive kilovolt-ampere requirements for a large number of parameters, including the effect of distance, voltage, conductor size, series and shunt compensation, terminal impedances, and stability margin. This analysis indicates that the limitation of the transmission of a-c power greater straightaway distances than has been accomplished heretofore is primarily that of the cost of the line, the stability limitation can be overcome by a comparatively small increase in cost."
"A LARGE capacitor bank recently installed at Winchester, Virginia, is supplied with a series reactor to tune it to the fifth harmonic of the power frequency. This is the pioneer installation in the United States of this novel means of reducing the fifth harmonic voltage over a broad expanse of system — 33 kv in this case. The paper defines the field of application for this arrangement in comparison with other better known methods of harmonic control. A technique of system study at harmonic frequency has been developed, based on these findings. Analysis of measurements of lower system harmonics on power systems under varying conditions has shown their chief source to be transformer magnetizing current when power rectifiers are not present. This makes possible analytical determination of the harmonics of interest in the application of shunt capacitors. It involves first, the laboratory determination of the internal voltage and reactance comprising the transformer equivalent circuit, second, the setup of the actual system on the a-c network calculator, using the equivalent circuit, and third, field tests to verify the findings of the network calculator studies, and to prove the adequacy of the tuned capacitor installation. This method of analysis is presented together with confirming tests."
"AT present there is a definite need in small theaters, such as those in colleges and universities, for a flexible, highly advanced system of stage lighting control. During recent years such systems capable of supplying the relatively tremendous loads of the large muscial comedy houses — up to about 25 kilowatts individual circuit capacity — have been developed. However, little attention has been paid to the needs of the small legitimate theater, which requires just as much flexibility of light control and perhaps almost as many circuits but of much smaller individual capacity — perhaps a kilowatt or two maximum. It is with circuits appropriated for this use that the present paper deals. Experimental circuits employing thyratrons as power rectifiers, supplying uni-directional current directly to a lamp load, were developed as part of the investigation and proved satisfactory. The fundamental problem in stage lighting is that of supplying voltages of proper magnitude to appropriate lamp circuits in the required sequence. Although it may be difficult to decide which single feature is most desirable in a satisfactory theater lighting control system, a number of characteristics are agreed to be essential, and their comprehension lies in a brief analysis of a few typical examples of the operator's task."
"A REVIEW of the literature has revealed very little information regarding the effects of small 60-cycle electric currents on man. These currents are not sufficient to produce unconsciousness or death but they are sufficient to produce involuntary muscular contractions. The hazard to the public has been increased because of the recent development and application of electrical devices with exposed electrodes, such as the electric fence, the electric fly panel, the electric insect trap, the electric cattle prod, and the a-c welding apparatus. The fatal accidents that have occurred due to these devices have emphasized the importance of obtaining additional knowledge on electric shock. This report is based on experiments just completed on 120 men. A preliminary investigation had been made during 1936–37 on 56 men.1 Some of the data collected then have been included in the body of this paper, but not in the statistical analysis. It is hoped that the results may help to improve the design and safety of some of the new electrical devices and may be useful in clarifying the widespread misunderstanding of electric shock."
"THE communication problems of rural areas offer an unique opportunity for the application of automatic switching methods. In no other situation is the combination of factors so favorable. Automatic exchanges are particularly suited to rural needs, especially when they are installed as unattended units in connection with nearby attended exchanges. The principal benefit springs from the fact that in a small manual exchange the number of operators cannot be adjusted to take care efficiently of the maximum traffic, because too often there is not enough traffic to occupy the time of even one operator. The low traffic factor in rural areas therefore results in a twofold handicap — a handicap which only automatic equipment has been able to remedy. Experience has shown first that it is the infrequency of calls in an exchange, rather than high traffic, that makes the operator inattentive, and often causes delay in putting through calls. Service being the essence of all telephone facilities, this is a condition which cries aloud for a remedy."
"A 220-kv line, 150 miles long has been constructed between Powerton Station near Peoria, Illinois, and Crawford Station in the city of Chicago. This line will probably operate continuously near the static stability limit and will deliver 150,000 kilowatts to the city from Powerton Station near the coal fields of southern Illinois. This line has the highest capacity of any in this area and includes several novel features, such as a unique carrier current system for tripping the breakers at the remote end of the line, for telemetering, load control, and communication. The 180,000-kva transformer bank at Powerton has two 22,000-volt primary windings connected to different busses. The Crawford transformer bank has a 150,000-kva winding at 220-kv, a 75,000-kva winding at 12-kv, and two 90,000-kva windings at 69-kv for connection to separate 66-kv systems. Regulating transformers are provided at both terminals. A 75,000-kva synchronous condenser at the Crawford terminal is connected to the 12-kv transformer winding for voltage control. No 220-kv breakers are used at either end of the line. This paper describes only the operating features and the terminal facilities; a companion paper by Messrs. Oldacre and Wollaston describes the construction features of the line."
"Intercity networks appear vital to the success of television broadcasting. Experiments with wire lines for this purpose and for local transmission of present-day television signals are reported herein. The design and construction of the equipment used are described and its performance characteristics given. The intercity lines discussed involve carrier transmission over coaxial cable with repeaters which pass a net band of about 2 3/4 megacycles. For local intracity connections video transmission of about a 4 mc band is obtained over existing telephone plant or by means of special low attenuation cable. Various circuit arrangements including the facilities used in bringing scenes from the Republican Convention in Philadelphia to the N.B.C. in New York are shown together with their overall television transmission characteristics."
"It has long been known that transient magnetizing inrush currents, sometimes reaching magnitudes as high as eight times full-load current, may flow in a transformer winding for a period following the moment when it is energized by connecting it to an electric power circuit.1 It has not been generally appreciated, however, that other transformers already connected to the power circuit near the transformer being switched may also have transient magnetizing currents of considerable magnitude at the same time, although they themselves are not switched but remain continuously connected to the power circuit, carrying load. It has not been appreciated, moreover, that with this arrangement the transient periods of the inrush currents may be very long, the currents dying away at a much slower rate than would the inrush current of the transformer being switched if the others were not connected. This paper discusses the cause of these phenomena and describes tests made to investigate their occurrence. The results of a mathematical analysis for the currents in the circuit under various conditions, supporting and extending the test results, are given in the appendix. The amount of resistance in the transmission line circuit connecting the parallel transformers with the generating source is shown both by tests and mathematics to be a determining factor; the magnitude of the inrush current in the already connected transformers increasing to values of over twice full load current as the line resistance increases. Magnetizing inrush currents tend to operate the transformer differential relays, causing the circuit breakers to trip and remove the transformer from service when no fault exists within it. Various means have been devised to prevent the operation of the relays on magnetizing inrush current. This paper discusses the effectiveness of these various means when subjected to the inrush currents occurring with parallel-connected transformers, with particular reference to the harmonic restraint relay described in a recent paper.2"
"A new kind of channel-sequencing system allots the full capacity of a telegraph circuit to the busy channels alone. A busy channel cuts itself out of its sequential position by becoming idle but may re-enter the sequence at will by offering one letter for transmission. Entry, mixing, and exit are accomplished by electromechanical control of standard start-stop and multiplex printing telegraph apparatus. Special signal or code combinations are used to denote changes in the pattern of subchannels cut in, and to act as a check on correct distribution. For greater efficiency, ordinary message letters, by a new method, may be interspersed among successive elements of switching combinations, and the cascading of combinations is also employed. Dummy channels, high-speed receivers, and other devices may be used to prevent or utilize unusual channel speeds. Varioplex systems may be repeatered either by subchannel storage or by storage involving several subchannels handled as a unit."
"THE placing in service of the 220-kv Powerton-Crawford transmission line of the Commonwealth Edison Company marks the completion of a project begun 12 years ago and subsequently dropped during the depression years. When work was suspended in 1932, most of the right-of-way had been secured, tower sites were located, the tower contracts had been let, typical towers had been built and tested, and some of the terminal apparatus was completed. This line, with a normal rating of 150,000 kva and an emergency rating of approximately 200,000 kva, is to serve as a very important link in the supply to the Chicago area. The plans were carefully reviewed when the project again became active, with the object of incorporating the new ideas that had been developed in the industry for protecting overhead lines from hazards of lightning, sleet, vibration, and galloping conductors. The desired objective was virtually trouble-free operation and this, rather than the lowest cost, was the first consideration. The extent of the advance in the industry is revealed by the present design of the line, which retains only the conductor size of the original designs of 1928 to 1930. Towers, insulators, ground wires, hardware, and all other elements are of present-day design. It is anticipated that the line will have an outstandingly good operating record."
"FAULT currents in electrical systems depend upon the impedance of the circuit for their intensity. Stresses, both thermal and mechanical, occur due to such currents and at various time intervals following initiation of the fault. Such stresses are of primary interest in system and equipment design. The possible amount of short-circuit current in any system equals the quotient of the voltage divided by the impedance. The latter term usually includes certain elements which formerly were indeterminate but now can be estimated with reasonable accuracy. Short-circuit currents measured in present-day (600 volts and less) types of equipment were found to check closely with currents calculated from the impedance of the circuit and the applied voltage.1 It is, therefore, advisable to discard “rule-of-thumb” or “discounting” procedures for predetermining fault currents. In the discussion which follows, a method is given whereby the symmetrical current may be calculated from the E/Z relation; the amount of d-c component is shown to decrease from a theoretical maximum at zero time at various rates according to the relation of the circuit reactance to its resistance; a simplified and convenient step-by-step procedure is given for the determination of balanced three-phase short-circuit currents using the foregoing relationships; the time is shown at which currents that determine the interrupting and short-time duties of circuit interrupting devices are identified in order that the corresponding value of reactance and d-c component can be used for calculation of the imposed current."
"THE object of this paper is to show the performance of transformers with two windings in the rapid-transient state when surges develop in their conductors. On the one hand, we will determine the characteristic constants for traveling waves, as surge-impedance and wave velocity, from the data of the transformer. On the other hand, we will consider the rapid interaction of the primary and secondary windings, with different numbers of turns, which for travelling waves is very different from the coupling under quasi-steady-state conditions.1,2,3 In a previous paper11 it is shown that the propagation of traveling waves of moderate frequency in coils and windings is similar to the propagation in smooth lines and that the values of surge-impedance and traveling-velocity of such waves can be derived from the total self-inductance and the total ground-capacitance of the windings under steady state conditions. Furthermore, very steep parts of incident waves, corresponding to the highest frequencies, are cut off and converted within the winding into a flattened front, the length of which depends on the internal capacitance between the turns or coils. In this paper these results for moderate frequencies will be used but the influence of internal capacitances for very high frequencies will not be considered, as this would only obscure the principal objective of the paper."
"A knowledge of the natural frequencies of transformer, reactor, and generator windings is essential for the determination of the transient response of such coils to lightning waves and switching surges, as well as for the calculation of the recovery characteristics of circuit breakers and expulsion gaps. Different testing methods have been employed to determine these natural frequencies, and it has usually been taken for granted that each of these different testing procedures gives results in substantial agreement. Recently, however, in a study of transformer transients it was found that several different methods of test failed to agree, and an investigation as to the cause of the discrepancies disclosed that all of these usual methods are not equally valid or reliable. It is, therefore, the object of this paper to discuss various testing procedures, and to point out their theoretical limitations toward yielding the supposed information. The voltage distribution along the winding of a grounded neutral transformer is discussed analytically and the basic equations are developed. Results of voltage distribution tests made by several methods are reported and compared. The various methods of testing are discussed and compared with the conclusion that the method of free oscillation is, in general, preferable."
"This paper deals with and outlines a new solution to the problem of providing adequate short circuit protection for low-voltage distribution systems and circuits operating at 600 volts or less. Recent tests and field experience have dispelled the illusion that protective devices of very limited interrupting ability will satisfactorily protect any low-voltage circuit. A recently published calculating procedure makes possible the accurate determination of the short circuit currents obtainable in low voltage circuits or systems. Modern types of low-voltage air circuit breakers in a wide range of interrupting ratings are now available. While the best short circuit protection is obtained by selecting those of interrupting ratings at least equal to the calculated short circuit current, such a procedure is not always justifiable. In many instances a relatively large number of main feeder circuits, emanating from a bus fed through one or more main breakers or incoming line breakers, supply an even larger number of branch feeders. The short circuit currents obtainable at the branch-feeder breaker locations may not be materially less than those obtainable at the main bus. Yet the selection of branch feeder breakers, or possibly even main feeder breakers, with interrupting ratings high enough to match these obtainable currents, may prove completely impractical when viewed with any reasonable regard for space requirements or cost. Air circuit breakers of varying interrupting ratings, properly coordinated in design may be used in a “cascade” or series connection in such manner that in event of a severe fault, the main breakers “back-up” the smaller main feeder breakers, and these, in turn, “back-up” the branch feeder breakers. Only the main breakers need have interrupting ratings equal to the obtainable short-circuit current, yet the system is adequately protected, within the limits set forth in the paper. Cascading also makes possible a simple means of selecting air circuit breakers to provide economical yet adequate protection for relatively small installations, where a complete short-circuit study might be difficult to justify and where a poor selection of protective devices would result in either an unnecessarily expensive installation or a serious hazard — generally the latter. An application table for such installations, based upon the principle of cascade operation is included."
"This paper presents the results of an investigation of the half wave and full wave rectifier circuits with a simple capacitance filter and using either high vacuum or mercury vapor tubes. In the fore part of the paper an equivalent circuit is set up such that when the tube is conducting, a mercury vapor tube is represented by a constant voltage drop or a high vacuum tube by a constant resistance. A detailed analysis of this circuit is carried through in the appendix, and it is found that the output characteristics depend upon three parameters. The results of this analysis are presented in the form of curves giving the angles at which the tubes begin conducting and cease conducting and also the d-c output voltage. For the more special case of no tube drop, curves of ripple voltage, maximum tube current, and tube inverse peak voltage are presented. The comparisons made between the calculated results and test results show very satisfactory agreements. It is shown that the curves given in the paper may be used in the design of rectifier circuits with capacitance filters."
"The transient induced voltage across the interpole and compensating windings of d-c motors or generators on short circuit or flashover provide a quick and convenient means of actuating circuit breaker or other protective devices. Such means have made possible quicker tripping times than are obtained with the conventional series overload or reverse current protection."
"AT this time, when the incandescent electric lamp is perhaps at the zenith of its career, there is a certain propriety in recording its status, in appraising it as an illuminant, and in reviewing the circumstances surrounding its production and use. As an instrument in the advance of civilization, the lamp is highly important. In its technical and economic relationships it has been, and is, the subject of intensive engineering study. Thereby has come benefit to the art of illumination, which it serves well, and to the public welfare, to which it has made large contributions. Incidentally, the lamp illustrates the process of transformation of a luxury through intensive and widespread use into a necessity. Somewhat of an assay of the incandescent lamp being proposed, it has seemed in order for the writer to undertake it because for several decades, though connected with neither a manufacturer of lamps nor an electric light and power company, he has had continuing contacts with both through independent lamp testing services. This circumstance accounts for an unusually comprehensive acquaintance with developments in lamp engineering. In this respect, this paper may be considered a sequel to an Institute paper presented in 1936 entitled, “The Qualities of Incandescent Lamps.”1"
"Perfect current transformers would make all differential relaying simple, but such transformers would be of excessive size and cost. A new idea in current transformer design makes it possible to maintain a linear relation between primary and secondary currents in a transformer of reasonable size, even where high current values, completely offset, are encountered. Such a current transformer is particularly valuable for applications where high speed bus differential protection is required. The basic principles of design and test results are reviewed showing that the air gap core current transformer retains a fixed ratio over the full range of current for which it is designed. There is thus made available a current transformer of reasonable size, which may be easily applied and may be used with simple relays."
"A method is outlined for determining the effectiveness of devices used for prevention of vibration fatigue in transmission conductors. Measuring equipment is described which provides records of conductor vibration in the quantitative form essential for such determinations. Vibration records obtained on typical constructions are analyzed and correlated with fatigue tests and operating experience to determine the probable life of the conductor. Data are given on the performance of test spans of a special loose-core A.C.S.R., as well as A.C.S.R. of standard stranding, for various span lengths, tensions, and equipped with various devices, including a double-suspension clamp, armor rods, Stockbridge dampers and a newly-developed torsional damper. Of the devices tested, dampers are shown to be most effective in reducing vibration stresses."
"More often than not, the nonlinear problems of electrical engineering arise from discrete physical systems and are usually reducible mathematically to the solution of systems of non-linear total differential equations or to systems of nonlinear integral equations. Six independent methods of solving discrete non-linear problems are given in this paper. Each method is illustrated by means of an electrical engineering problem. The illustrative examples employed pertain to a-c and d-c non-linear circuits, reluctance-induction motors, hunting of and dynamic braking of synchronous machines. References to additional methods are given in the bibliography. The 88 given references listed represent approximately ten per cent of the field, but many of the entries contain a bibliography on their respective fields. The accelerated growth of research in the field of non-linearity is due to different causes. The general advancement of science requires increasingly more precise expressions for the laws of science. Accurate nonlinear equations frequently depart from the linearized or postulated linear equations which have been previously used for approximate results. The quest for perfection and generalization and the love of difficult investigations by professional mathematicians play a large part in this growth. A recent incentive is the increasingly exacting requirements of modern manufacturing. These requirements are born of the competitive necessity of producing ever improved machines and equipment in the most economical manner."
"WHEN a squirrel-cage motor is switched in any way, whether while running or at rest, transient torques, which are usually several times the steady-state torque, occur and must be considered in design. It was desired to obtain a general semi-quantitative view of these torques by considering a limiting case which is accessible analytically with the expectation that a simple rule would be apparent for estimating the magnitude of these torques from design data. No such rule was found, and we must be content to exhibit limiting transient torque curves for certain types of motors in the commercial range and to provide accurate formulas for calculating such limiting torques for types not considered here. The limiting case studied involves the following assumptions:"
"ELECTRIC locomotives were first used for the movement of main-line traffic over 45 years ago. This early application was for tunnel work but it may be taken as the beginning of a new era in main-line transportation. In this era the steam locomotive has been transformed in appearance and characteristics. More recently the Diesel engine has been applied to passenger and freight trains. During all this period of development the characteristics of the electric locomotive have continued to be superior to those of either the steam or the diesel-electric locomotive. Many of the early ideas with regard to the application of electric locomotives are still valid today, but progress in transportation engineering has become so accelerated that a periodic review of each type of motive power must be made by those who are responsible for their application. A discussion of the engineering fundamentals which enter into the selection of an electric motive power unit for main-line work will be presented. An understanding of these fundamentals is essential to the specification of a balanced design. A locomotive which is specified on this basis will give all of the advantages of momentum operation augmented by high electrical horsepower at high speed. This is one of the unique advantages of the electric locomotive."
"AT the summer convention of the Institute in 1930, Mr. E. T. J. Brandon presented a paper under this same title,1 describing the design of the initial components of this system, which had then been in operation approximately one and one-half years. At that time, one and one-half circuits, having a combined length of 350 miles, were in service, transmitting approximately 110,000 kw. to a receiving terminal station in the Toronto area of 180,000 kva. capacity. At the present time, the Commission is operating a total of 1,000 miles of single-circuit 220,-000 volt construction, with one receiving terminal of 420,000 kva. rated capacity and is placing into service immediately 45 miles of double-circuit construction and a second receiving terminal of 150,000 kva. capacity. This paper presents a brief history of the development of the system and places on record the experience gained in 8,400 circuit-mile-years of operation of the transmission circuits. Data are presented regarding lightning outages and the behavior of the circuits under sleet and conductor vibration."
"In the investigation described in this paper, measurements have been made and statistical data obtained on the multiple character and wave shape of the currents in direct strokes and the currents discharged by lightning arresters. These data, in conjunction with other data on the field performance of arresters, have revealed definite differences between the nature of direct strokes and the currents they produce in arresters. 1. Arrester discharge currents have fewer components than found in direct strokes. Only about 30 per cent were found to be multiple and not over 8 components were recorded, while from 50 to 70 per cent of direct strokes were multiple with as many as 32 components recorded. 2. Components of arrester discharges are of lower crest magnitude. Only 30 per cent of those measured exceeded 1,000 amperes, while for direct strokes 50 per cent exceeded 5,000 amperes. 3. The initial high current portions of the components of arrester discharges do not vary greatly in wave shape and are similar to those of direct strokes, having for both types of discharges times to half value which, in general, lie between 25 and 100 microseconds and average about 50 microseconds. 4. The long duration low magnitude portions of direct strokes vary over wide limits, both in magnitude and duration. However, for arrester discharges they are seldom present to any appreciable degree. This portion of the discharge may have current magnitudes as high as 1,000 amperes and measurable durations from 50 to 20,000 microseconds in direct strokes, while lightning discharges through arresters seldom last more than 300 microseconds. 5. There is definite evidence that system neutral ground conditions influence the currents discharged by arresters on systems, and that the most severe duty is imposed on arresters on ungrounded systems, while the least severe service conditions appear on four-wire grounded neutral circuits. This is shown by the fact that no long duration surge components have been recorded on four-wire circuits, while about 50 per cent of the records obtained on ungrounded circuits had components of long duration. It is also shown by the performance record of the new Autovalve lightning arrester. With over 40,000 arrester years service this arrester has experienced only 18 lightning failures or a lightning failure rate of 0.045 of one per cent. Of 27,000 arrester years experience on four-wire systems there have been no failures, while of 4,500 arrester years of service on ungrounded circuits there have been 11 lightning failures. 6. There is indication that one of the factors influencing the nature of a lightning stroke is earth resistivity or geological structure. Observations lead to the inference that lightning discharges of long duration are more prevalent in regions of high earth resistivity and ancient geological structure than elsewhere. Thirteen of the 14 long duration arrester current records and 16 of the 18 arrester failures due to lightning occurred on four systems in two regions of high earth resistivity for which there was only 1,078 arrester years experience. 7. These data indicate that it is only with a combination of high earth resistivity and type of system for which the transformers cannot absorb the long duration portion, that appreciable long duration arrester discharges and accompanying severe duty on arresters is obtained. The data on which this is based are not yet conclusive, but the indications are sufficiently definite that this probability should not be overlooked."
"The extending use being made of frequencies from 900 to 12,000 for special purposes such as induction furnaces, etc., introduces new problems in instrument design and calibration. Previous practical a-c instruments were either of the electrodynamic or moving iron types designed for low power frequencies or thermal and rectifier types for audio and radio frequencies, these latter usually being confined to measurements of only current and voltage. The ordinary low frequency electromagnetic instruments have such high coil reactance and losses that they are unsuitable for the higher power frequencies in question without special arrangements, which are described in the paper. Furthermore, the usual calibration methods and standards as previously used for low frequencies are not adequate, and therefore, new methods of calibration were introduced."
"THE purpose of this paper is to describe a short method for solving arbitrary systems of linear algebraic equations, and evaluating determinants, the quantities involved being either real or complex. For proofs and for treatment of complex systems whose symmetrical coefficients are conjugate, see appendix. The cases considered are: 1. Arbitrary systems with real coefficients, which occur in obtaining stresses in structures, in solving systems of linear differential equations with constant coefficients (transient problems), etc. 2. Symmetrical systems with real coefficients, which occur with d-c networks, undamped vibration, deflections in structures, least square processes, Ritz's method, etc. 3. Symmetrical systems with complex coefficients, which occur with a-c networks, and forced vibration with dissipation. 4. Arbitrary systems with complex coefficients, which occur in certain vibration problems involving gyroscopic action. 5. Systems involving two sets of variables, which occur when the currents in a network are to be found for a variety of impressed voltages, also in the approximate solution of integral equations arising in electric field problems."
"INDUCTION motors with series capacitors connected in the supply circuit can under certain conditions become unstable. Upon application of the voltage the rotor will come up to partial speed and continue to rotate at this reduced speed. This phenomenon should not be confused with ferro-resonance which is accompanied by violent wave distortion, abnormally large magnetizing currents, and fluctuations in voltage. Both of these phenomena were analyzed as applied to induction motors by Butler and Concordia.1 It is the purpose of this paper to present further thoughts regarding the stability problem. A new approach is utilized which is much simpler and at the same time provides a clearer conception of the physical processes involved. Somewhat different conclusions result with the use of this analysis than with the analysis of others. In this analysis conventional induction motor nomenclature and symbols will be used as it is believed that induction motor engineers will better understand the problem by this procedure."
"LIGHTNING research is classified here for convenience into three main divisions. First, there are the meteorological and physical processes which give rise to the lightning stroke proper. Second, we have the characteristics of the lightning stroke as these appear at the point of incidence of the stroke to electric lines, to protective systems, and to earth. And third, comes that branch of the art connected with the development of these characteristics over electric circuits and their effects on electrical apparatus. This paper deals with the second division of lightning research. It is essentially a continuation of a previous report1 and presents the results of investigations carried on particularly through 1937 to 1940. The first part of the paper covers data and findings which pertain to the long-duration low-current components of lightning. The relative frequency of occurrence of these long-duration components is discussed. From these studies, we find that the electric charge of lightning discharges ranges from a few to 200 coulombs. Higher values are not entirely precluded but they would be rare. The second part of the paper refers to the type of component characteristics for lightning-stroke discharge prevalent to earth and to electric systems (figure 20). The method of analysis in these investigations consists in comparing the physical effects on objects tested in the laboratory to the field data on similar objects that have been hit by lightning, such as lightning rods, ground wires, conductors of power and communication lines, coaxial cables, metal sheets, and other objects. The degree, nature, and amount of fusion on the metal is determined by ordinary measurements as well as by means of macrographs and micrographs of the objects affected."
"THE first ground-fault neutralizer (Petersen coil) in the United States was installed on the Alabama Power Company system in 1921. The technical press at that time devoted considerable attention to the substantial improvement in service continuity which was obtained with the neutralizer, and also described the overvoltages which occurred on the system during switching operations.1 Since this first application, more than fifty ground-fault neutralizers have been installed on systems in the United States in all voltage classes from 22 kv to 230 kv. Considering the total number of neutralizer-years of successful operating experience that have now been accumulated, it can therefore be stated that the ground-fault neutralizer has definitely proved its value as a service protective device, and that practical means have been found to eliminate the overvoltage troubles encountered in the first application. The very favorable operating record obtained to date indicates that ground-fault neutralizers may be expected to find increasingly widespread application in the future.2,3,4,5 The question of overvoltages, however, is still raised from time to time with reference to prospective applications of ground-fault neutralizers, presumably because of the attention which the overvoltage problem has received in the past,6,7,8,9,10 and it is felt that an analysis of the possible causes of and the means used to control overvoltages is in order. It is the specific purpose of this paper, therefore, to present data to indicate possible sources of overvoltages in ground-fault neutralizer systems, to point out the factors affecting the voltage magnitudes, and to show how the overvoltages are limited by present design and application practices."
"IN 1938, 15 mercury arc rectifier units, with a total capacity of 82,500 kw, were placed in service by the Aluminum Company of America to supply d-c power for the electrolytic production of aluminum.1 In the plant at Alcoa, Tenn., ten of these units were installed to supply two 45,000 ampere, 600 volt, d-c circuits. In the plant at Massena, N. Y., five units were installed to supply one such circuit. These installations are noteworthy as they marked the first application of power rectifiers in this country for the electrolytic production of metal. At that time the Alcoa installation was the largest concentration of rectifiers in the country, with the highest kilowatt capacity, installed in a single station and operating on a common bus. Since 1938, one unit was added to each station in space reserved for it. At Alcoa twelve additional units were installed in a second station; six of these were placed in service in May 1940, and six in January 1941. This paper will describe the Alcoa rectifier installations. The Massena station is practically identical with the first Alcoa installation except for the number of units."
"SUBSTATIONS equipped with automatic load-ratio control equipment are frequently operated with their secondaries in parallel. The units may be physically together, the secondary tie being a bus; or they may be some distance apart connected together by a tie line or group of tie lines as in a primary network. At the present time large numbers of factory-built distribution substations are being sold, and well over half of them are equipped for some form of network operation. As with most voltage regulators, automatic load-ratio control equipment is usually controlled by means of a line-drop compensator and a contact-making voltmeter.∗ This automatic control equipment has two principal functions: 1. It serves to maintain some specified voltage regulation at some point on the distribution system. 2. It serves to maintain regulator stability and to keep circulating currents at a minimum."
"THE Tennessee Valley Authority, since its establishment in 1933, has, among its many other activities, developed an electric generating and transmission system which now has a generating capacity of 1,050,200 kilowatts in 69 generating units, a one-hour peak load of about 907,200 kilowatts, and a monthly output of 520,000,000 kilowatt hours. The original generating facilities taken over by the Authority in the fall of 1933 consisted of the Wilson Hydro and Steam Plants both built at Muscle Shoals, Alabama, by the United States Government during the years 1918 to 1925 and totaling 244,000 kilowatts in generating capacity. During subsequent years the Authority has acquired and leased from private utilities previously operating in the Tennessee Valley area 5 hydro plants and 4 steam plants, totaling 292,300 kw in generating capacity, with transmission lines. Up to the present time the Authority has built and put into operation 6 new hydro plants and extensions to existing hydro plants, totaling 513,900 kilowatts in 15 generating units, with transmission lines. The Authority now has under construction 6 new hydro plants, 1 new steam plant and extensions to 2 existing hydro plants, totaling 969,200 kilowatts in 29 generating units, with transmission lines. The system as now operating and under construction, including the future generating units definitely provided for, will have a total capacity of 2,584,700 kilowatts in 115 generating units. This paper discusses the principal electrical design features of the ten hydroelectric stations designed and constructed or under construction by the Tennessee Valley Authority. Ocoee No. 3 and Apalachia, authorized in July 1941, are now in the early stages of design and are not described herein."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–67 by A. G. Darling, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1121–36."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–7 by C. F. Dalziel, J. B. Lagen, and J. L. Thurston, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1073–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–57 by M. S. Oldacre and F. O. Wollaston, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1108–20."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–73 by Edith Clarke and S. B. Crary, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1051–9."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–26 by H. E. Wulfing and T. G. LeClair, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1084–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–47 by C. F. Ffolliott, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1079–83."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–65 by C. D. Hayward, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1096–1101."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–28 by Ernst Weber, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (July section), pages 770–7."
"Discussion of paper 41–74 by W. C. Feaster and E. L. Harder, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1060–6."
"Discussion of paper 41–42 by M. E. Strieby and J. F. Wentz, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1090–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–75 by J. H. Hagenguth, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (July section), pages 803–10."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–17 by the EEI subject committee on generator insulation and testing, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (December section) pages 1003–11."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–35 by P. H. McAuley, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (July section), pages 798–803."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–44 by F. M. Clark, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (July section), pages 778–83."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–13 by R. E. Hellmund, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (July section), pages 792–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–40 by B. M. Jones and C. M. Stearns, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (July section), pages 763–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–1 by J. S. Gault, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941 (July section), pages 784–91."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–83 by C. Macmillan and G. K. Carter, presented at the North Eastern District meeting, Rochester, N. Y., April 30-May 2, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (August section), pages 819–23."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–92 by Joseph Slepian and T. E. Browne, Jr., presented at the North Eastern District meeting, Rochester, N. Y., April 30-May 2, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (August section), pages 823–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–91 by E. B. Shand, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Rochester, N. Y., April 30-May 2, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (August section), pages 814–18."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–89 by E. A. Walker, presented at the AIEE winter convention, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (August section), pages 837–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–85 by Reinhold Rüdenberg, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Rochester, N. Y., April 30-May 2, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1136–44."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–108 by K. J. Knudsen, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 866–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–106 by J. H. Goss, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (August section), pages 811–14."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–125 by C. T. Weller, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (October section), pages 925–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–112 by G. J. Wey, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 875–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–131 by L. I. Komives, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (October section), pages 929–34."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–120 by A. L. Brownlee and W. H. Wickham, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (October section), pages 940–2."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–118 by R. F. Field, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 890–5."
"Discussion of paper 41–132 by F. C. Doble, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (October section), pages 934–9."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–133 by D. D. MacCarthy and T. J. Carpenter, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (October section), pages 912–15."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–121 by W. M. Hanna, H. A. Travers, C. F. Wagner, C. A. Woodrow, and W. F. Skeats, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 877–81."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–116 by R. C. Van Sickle, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 882–4."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–114 by H. W. Haberl and Otto Jensen, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 869–74."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–128 by A. E. Anderson and C. H. Black, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1151–60."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–113 by Augustin Frigon, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 896–8."
"Discussion of paper 41–127 by H. C. Myers and J. H. Cox, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (October section), pages 943–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–124 by Philip Sporn and H. V. Putman, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (October section), pages 916–18."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–84 by L. V. Bewley, J. H. Hagenguth, and F. R. Jackson, Jr., presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Rochester, N. Y., April 30-May 2, 1941, and at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1145–50."
"Discussion of paper 41–126 by E. S. Gilfillan, Jr., and Edward Kaplan, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1200–09."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–135 by L. F. Kennedy and A. T. Sinks, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1180–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–99 by G. Steeb, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 859–62."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–109 by E. C. Wentz, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (October section), pages 949–54."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–122 by T. B. Montgomery and J. F. Sellers, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1168–73."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–102 by E. R. Whitehead, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 898–900."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–95 by A. H. Frampton and E. M. Wood, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1215–21."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–94 by J. W. Speight, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (October section), pages 907–11."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–115 by K. B. McEachron, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 885–90."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–97 by G. B. Tebo, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1188–93."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–137 by C. F. Wagner, G. D. McCann, and Edward Beck, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1222–30."
"Discussion of paper 41–101 by E. W. Brandenstein and D. R. MacLeod, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1210–15."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–100 by C. E. Woolgar, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (August section), pages 843–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–136 by J. L. McKeever, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 862–5."
"Discussion of paper 41–98 by K. A. Oplinger, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (August section), pages 846–9."
"Discussion of paper 41–123 by P. S. Millar, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1174–80."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–96 by H. H. Race, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (August section), pages 854–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–105 by D. L. Waidelich, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1161–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–107 by E. G. Keller, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1194–1200."
"Discussion of paper 41–117 by G. H. Rockwood, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Toronto, Ontario, Can., June 16–20, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (September section), pages 901–03."
"Discussion of paper 41–145 by G. W. Dunlap, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Yellowstone National Park, August 27–29, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (November section), pages 958–62."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–139 by C. F. Wagner, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Yellowstone National Park, August 27–29, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1241–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–141 by P. L. Bellaschi, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Yellowstone National Park, August 27–29, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1248–56."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–146 by John G. Trump and James Andrias, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Yellowstone National Park, August 27–29, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (November section), pages 986–90."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–148 by S. B. Farnham, E. M. Hunter, and H. A. Peterson, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Yellowstone National Park August 27–29, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1257–66."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 41–147 by H. S. Shott and H. A. Peterson, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Yellowstone National Park, August 27–29, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (November section), pages 997–1002."
"Discussion and author's closures of paper 41–143 by W. W. Parker, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Yellowstone National Park, August 27–29, 1941 and at the AIEE South West District meeting, St. Louis, Mo., October 8–10, 1941; published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (November section), pages 977–82."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–156 by V. O. Johnson, presented at the AIEE South West District meeting, St. Louis, Mo., October 8–10, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (December section), pages 1032–6."
"Discussion of paper 41–157 by P. H. Trickey, presented at the AIEE South West District meeting, St. Louis, Mo., October 8–10, 1941, and published in AIEE Transactions, 1941 (November section), pages 990–2."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–154 by C. P. Potter, presented at the AIEE South West District meeting, St. Louis, Mo., October 8–10, 1941, and published in AIEE Transactions, 1941 (November section), pages 993–6"
"Discussion of paper 41–158 by W. O. Osbon, presented at the AIEE South West District meeting, St. Louis, Mo., October 8–10, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (November section), pages 963–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–153 by Bryce Brady, presented at the AIEE South West District meeting, St. Louis, Mo., October 8–10, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (November section), pages 955–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–152 by P. O. Bobo, presented at the AIEE South West District meeting, St. Louis, Mo., October 8–10, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (December section), pages 1041–5."
"Discussion of paper 41–159 by G. C. Nonken presented at the AIEE South West District meeting, St. Louis, Mo., October 8–10, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (December section), pages 1017–20."
"Discussion of paper 41–166 by F. M. Starr, presented at the AIEE Southern District meeting, New Orleans, La., December 3–5, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1274–80."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–164 by J. T. Logan and John H. Miles, presented at the AIEE Southern District meeting, New Orleans, La., December 3–5, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (December section), pages 1012–16."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 41–165 by Raymond A. Hopkins, presented at the AIEE Southern District meeting, New Orleans, La., December 3–5, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1281–93."
"Author's closure of paper 41–168 by Thomas James Higgins, presented at the AIEE Southern District meeting, New Orleans, La., December 3–5, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941 (December section), pages 1046–50."
"Discussion of paper 41-167 by J.E. Housley and Harold Winograd, presented at the AIEE Southern District meeting, New Orleans, LA, USA, December 3-5, 1941, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1941, pages 1266-74."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Radiant heating produced by incandescent lamps is replacing convection heating for many drying, baking, dehydration, and other moderate-temperature applications"
"This review of typical advances in various fields and industries made possible by the practical application of research demonstrates the vital role played by measurements"
"According to a recent announcement, three cars of the new “pendulum” or above-gravity-suspension type are soon to be tested in road service on the Santa Fe, Great Northern, and Burlington railroads. This new development, which is intended to provide greater passenger comfort at the higher speeds that are becoming common in modern railroading, was described in a recent paper."
"A discussion of some of the technical problems entailed in the operation of radiobroadcasting networks"
"The current status and present trend of research in various subdivisions of the general field of electrical insulation were indicated in the 22 progress reports informally presented at the 13th annual meeting of the conference on electrical insulation of National Research Council held in Washington, D. C., for three days beginning October 31, 1940. A brief report of the general features of that conference was presented on page 524 of the recent December issue. Through the generous and effective assistance of Secretary Thorstein Larsen (A '34) of the conference, ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING presents on this and the following three pages a digest of author-abstracts which reflect the highlights of the various informal technical reports."
"Technical sessions of unusual interest, an outstanding program of social events, and a group of attractive inspection trips have been arranged for the AIEE winter convention to be held in Philadelphia, Pa., January 27–31, 1941, with headquarters at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel. Papers presenting new designs of electrical apparatus, latest operating practices, and new theories will be presented in 20 technical sessions, and 9 technical conferences."
"Advisable, particularly from out-of-town members as an adequate supply of each paper at the convention cannot be assured. Only numbered papers are available in pamphlet form."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"“Total Preparedness for America's Future” constituted the theme of the annual convention of the National Association of Manufacturers held December 11–13, 1940, at New York, N. Y. Five different aspects of the subject were discussed in as many sessions, ranging from the “need for total preparedness,” to “postwar readjustments.” H. W. Prentis, Jr., president of the Association, and president of the Armstrong Cork Company, delivered the keynote address at the opening session. Among other addresses at that session, John W. Hanes, chairman, executive committee, United States Lines, spoke on “Financing the Defense Program.” During the session on post-war readjustments, Malcolm Muir, chairman of the Association's committee on study of depressions, and publisher of Newsweek, spoke on the subject “Must We Have a Post-War Depression?” His address was based partly on the recommendations of the committee. Excerpts from these three addresses, and the “pledge,” constituting a part of the “Platform of American Industry,” adopted during the convention, are presented in the following paragraphs."
"A MEMORIAL tablet to Calvin W. Rice (A'97, F'12) secretary of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers from 1906 until his death in 1934, was placed in the lobby of the Engineering Societies Building on December 2, 1940, during the ASME annual meeting. The tablet, which was prepared by United Engineering Trustees, Inc., was first unveiled at the 1937 annual meeting of the ASME. Since a rule of the Trustees forbids placing a memorial in the building until the individual commemorated has been dead five years, the tablet remained for the intervening time in the custody of the ASME."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"This paper describes the use of automatic push-button tuning on shortwave broadcast transmitters that are required to change from one frequency to another with the least possible interruption to programs. The tuning control circuits and the arrangement of the radiofrequency circuits of the transmitter are described."
"While wattmeters for high current values of a-c power are universally used in connection with instrument transformers, d-c power is ordinarily measured by using separate ammeters and voltmeters on account of the difficulty in making a heavy-current d-c wattmeter. Although large direct currents are conveniently measured by use of the shunt and milli-voltmeter, shunted-type d-c wattmeters have in the past been somewhat unsatisfactory. An improved d-c wattmeter is described which corresponds in accuracy and sensitivity to the usual permanent-magnet moving-coil ammeter and operates from the usual ammeter shunt."
"The glow lamp is a modern electrical device employing the peculiar properties of various rare gases which when energized by the application of a voltage ionize and pass current. This ionization is accompanied by the production of light."
"Despite the fact that it is quite generally conceded that differential protection is the most desirable principle for line protection, yet few applications of relay systems of this type have been made until recently except for lines of very short length. The older forms of pilot-wire differential protection required three or four wires of low resistance; and even then, the systems were characterized by lack of sensitivity, and by high burden on the current transformers."
"Methods are given for the design of circuits using “varistor” elements to secure specified variations of loss as a function of input signal. The types of circuits include compressors and expandors using shunt, series, and lattice networks. Formulas for steady-state transmission and distortion in terms of varistor characteristics are developed."
"Carrier-current relaying is now well established as the most complete type of protection. It has had sufficient field experience to well justify the fundamental principles on which it is founded and the manner in which it has been worked out. As it often happens, the solution of one problem will lend itself to another similar problem. This seems to be the case of carrier-current relaying as it has provided the communication channel which might be available to solve other problems involving the transmission and reception of signaled information. This common solution to two problems naturally lessens the economic factors which relieves each problem of the strain of carrying the entire burden. Other problems involving the use of communication means which could be provided by the relay channel are: telemetering, supervisory control, load control, communication, remote tripping, etc. The addition of these other functions to the carrier channel, while not involving serious technical difficulties, nevertheless, requires the consideration of some problems. Methods are available and actual installations have been made involving various combinations of additional uses of the relay channel."
"This paper points out a method for analyzing the results obtained from dissipation-factor tests of transformer insulation. Experimental data, obtained both from transformer tests, extending over the past three years, and from tests of sample insulation, indicate a definite relation between resistance and capacitance, with varying conditions of temperature and moisture. This relation furnishes an additional means for determining the condition of insulation when considered with other accepted methods. The physical arrangement of the transformer windings, and the type of test equipment used, affect the tests and should be considered when interpreting results."
"Prior to 1926 the starting of railway-type Diesel engines was generally accomplished by the use of compressed air. This method of starting had certain disadvantages in locomotive operation, and in an effort to overcome them, a trial installation was made of an electric starting system. This involved the application of a 56-cell lead-acid type storage battery and the addition of a special series winding in the main generator of the locomotive, through which the battery current was passed when starting causing the generator to function as a series-wound motor. Since that time this method has been used successfully on practically all Diesel-electric locomotives."
"Although the application of electricity for the auxiliaries of railroad trains has not been as spectacular as its use for traction purposes this has increased in a remarkable manner since its first application for electric-lighting purposes about 60 years ago.1 This application was confined largely to lighting purposes until the last few years when streamlined high-speed passenger trains and air-conditioned cars have ushered in a new era of railroad transportation. This paper points out the increased use of electricity for auxiliaries other than those in electric and Diesel-electric locomotives."
"The thermal converter discussed in this paper is of the type which produces at its output terminals a millivoltage proportional to the polyphase power connected to its input terminals, the connections being made as for a wattmeter. High-speed response is secured through the use of a new circuit network wherein the thermocouples function also as heaters. Response time of the order of one-half second is obtained. The use of nickel-alloy transformer cores saturating at overloads broadens the overload capacity of the thermal unit itself. Thermal converters of this type are widely used in the summation of power."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"A CONSIDERABLE amount of attention has been given to the application of statistical methods to problems of inspection with emphasis on means for securing certain definite advantages such as reduction in the cost of inspection, reduction in the cost of production by minimizing rejections, and the attainment of uniform quality of manufactured products.1,2,3,4 This paper presents four sets of sampling inspection tables that have contributed in a notable way to important reductions in such costs and to substantial improvements in control of quality for many characteristics of products used in the Bell System."
"Intercity networks appear vital to the success of television broadcasting. Experiments with wire lines for this purpose and for local transmission of present-day television signals are reported herein. The design and construction of the equipment used are described and its performance characteristics given."
"A method has been developed for economically manufacturing insulated wire for telephone exchange area cable by making the paper on the wire. Further, this method has made it possible to increase the number of wires in a full sized cable by 175% over the number in use in 1914. Developments now under way indicate that suitable insulation can be made to replace certain textiles in some classes of wire and that the use of this process may therefore be still further extended in the not so distant future."
"A new wire mill for the drawing of copper wire is described. The speeds attained are close to the theoretical limit set by the breaking strength of the wire under the centrifugal stress of winding. The No. 1 machine which draws from rod down to No. 16 A.W.G. and has 10 dies operates at 6000 ft. a minute. The No. 2 machine redraws to finished sizes of No. 19 A.W.G. down to No. 30, possesses 12 dies, and operates at 10,000 to 12,000 ft. a minute. With the single installation at the Western Electric Company at Kearny, N. J., over 2,500,000 pounds of annealed wire are now delivered monthly to the insulating machines for processing into lead covered cable. Part I deals with the design of the machines; Part II with the wire mill installation and operation."
"The experience gained in operating the older Hawthorne and Point Breeze wire mills demonstrated the importance of providing and maintaining dies of high quality. The hardest materials, alloys such as tungsten carbide and flawless diamonds, are used in these dies."
"Two papers by Reverend Thomas Bayes — A facsimile publication from the Philosophical Transactions, Vol. LIII, for the year 1763. This facsimile has been prepared under the direction of W. Edwards Deming, Senior Mathematician of the Bureau of the Census, Washington, from a copy of the Philosophical Transactions in the possession of the Naval Observatory in Washington. An interesting foreword to the volume has been supplied by Edward C. Molina of the Bell Telephone Laboratories. The volume is available at the Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C, price $1.00."
"Harry Blount, educated in England. Western Electric Company, 1903–. Mr. Blount has been engaged in the rolling of copper rods, drawing of wire, and application of protective coatings on wire."
"The report consists of three major sections. The first discusses mathematical specialists in industry, calls attention to the essentially consultative character of their work, and makes some observations regarding the education, employment and supervision of this type of personnel."
"IN THE design of a new telephone transmission system a knowledge of the characteristics of the medium over which the waves are to pass is, of course, a prerequisite. What painstaking experimentation is necessary to accumulate such knowledge, however, what voluminous data are involved, what minutiae of detail, and what extremes of accuracy, are things far less obvious."
"Analyses by Fourier's Series have been made of waves consisting of sinusoidal, rectangular and trapezoidal pulses and also waves of the type found in multivibrator circuits. The method of increasing harmonic content by modulating a wave with a submultiple is treated mathematically."
"ONE of the signs whereby a physicist may be known is a fondness for putting dots upon blackboards. This is not an irrational habit, but a symbolic practice. It is a symbol of his manner of regarding the world as a multitude incredibly enormous of particles incredibly small. The dots stand for the particles, and the bare regions of the blackboard for the empty spaces between them. The habit has not indeed been universal. Many a thinker has preferred to consider the world as a continuum, a solid or jelly or fluid; and we shall see that this alternative has always been very near in the background, even when the “atomists” were at their most triumphant. Let me however defer this other idea, and derive as much as possible from the notion of particles in a void."
"Tentative Standards for Wood Poles Become Approved American Standards.1 Richard C. Eggleston. The six American Tentative Standards covering specifications for wood poles, several of which were approved by the American Standards Association as tentative in 1931 and the rest in 1933, have now been reviewed by the ASA committee and approved by the ASA as full American Standards. In reviewing the standards, the committee found that the general principles of the standard requirements have been universally recognized as a satisfactory basis for the selection of poles. Covering as they do northern white cedar poles, western red cedar poles, chestnut poles, southern pine poles, lodgepole pine poles, and Douglas fir poles, the standards represent a rational uniform standardization system for the six major pole timbers of the United States."
"Karl K. Darrow, B.S., University of Chicago, 1911; University of Paris, 1911–12; University of Berlin, 1912; Ph.D., University of Chicago, 1917. Western Electric Company, 1917–25; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. As Research Physicist, Dr. Darrow has been engaged largely in writing on various fields of physics and the allied sciences."
"ONE of the fundamental quantities in traffic engineering is the average duration of subscribers' calls. This figure in seconds multiplied by the average number of calls expected over a given route in an hour, and divided by 3600, gives the traffic load submitted in average simultaneous calls — or “the average” as it is commonly called. Tables and curves are widely available which may then be consulted to find the number of paths to be provided so that no more than a desired small percentage of the calls presented will find all paths busy."
"During the past few years, apparatus which transfers electrical into acoustical or mechanical energy has received wide application. This came about through the popular use of radios, phonographs, public address systems, and sound motion pictures. While the fundamental principles of such electro-mechanical or electro-acoustic transducers have been known for decades, it is safe to say that the rapid progress and excellent design obtained have been due in a large part to the knowledge derived from the related subject of electrical network theory."
"OUR earliest knowledge of electricity was of the static kind; later came the voltaic cell and the direct current. But not until the discovery of alternating or oscillating currents of electricity could the phenomenon of electrical resonance make its appearance. Today, as we turn the dials of our radio receivers and “tune in” on the station we want it is recognized how widespread its application has become. Nevertheless, it seems that few have given thought to how this important principle came to light and how and when it got into common use."
"A method is described for estimating calcium in lead which consists in casting a test ingot in a prescribed manner and comparing its surface appearance with the surface appearance of standards. The calcium content can be determined by inspection."
"Electron Microscopes and their Uses.1 Joseph A. Becker and Arthur J. Ahearn. Three and a half centuries have passed since Zacharias Janssen, a spectacles maker of Middleburg, Holland, put two lenses in a six-feet-long tube and thereby made the first known compound microscope. In the years since then, the microscope, now grown into a powerful and intricate instrument, has played an important role in the discovery of much of man's knowledge of the physical world. There is, however, much that the microscope has been unable to reveal because of its limited range of useful magnification. Today a new type of magnifying instrument, the electron microscope, is extending the range of useful magnification far beyond its old limits and promises to supplement the traditional microscope in many fields of scientific research. In this article the authors describe types of electron microscopes, tell how they function, and outline how they are being used in physics, chemistry, metallurgy and the biological sciences. A number of pictures are shown to illustrate these uses."
"Julian Blanchard, A.B., Trinity College (now Duke University), 1905; A.M., Columbia University, 1909; Ph.D., 1917. Professor of Engineering, Trinity College, 1909–1912; Research Assistant in Physics, Columbia University, 1912–1915. Physicist, Research Laboratory, Eastman Kodak Company, 1915–1917; Engineering Department, Western Electric Company, 1917–1925; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. Dr. Blanchard's work has been concerned primarily with special studies in connection with the development of vacuum tubes and radio. More recently he has been attached to the Technical Consulting Staff of the Laboratories."
"Methods of obtaining the steady state voltages and currents in a uniform transmission line consisting of several parallel wires are described in Part I. This line may or may not be acted upon by an externally impressed field distributed along its length. A square matrix Γ, which is a generalization of the propagation constant γ for a single circuit, is introduced. Matrix expressions obtained for the voltages and currents involve Γ in much the same way as the corresponding single circuit expressions involve γ. In Part II similar methods are described for obtaining the voltages and currents in a transmission line composed of a number of multi-terminal symmetrical sections connected in tandem. Expressions for the voltages and currents in a line composed of unsymmetrical sections are also given. These sections may or may not contain generators."
"The basic unit in most considerations of dimensions in the United States is the inch. The value of the inch is so important that many companies including the Bell System maintain in their measurement laboratories a standard yard bar calibrated against the standard at the National Bureau of Standards. In spite of this it is an interesting and curious fact that though all have been much concerned over the legal value of the dollar there has been little interest even among engineers in the exact legal value of the inch. Actually there is no single answer to so simple a question as “What is an inch?” In fact, we have changed from a British inch and our own legal meter, to our inch and the International meter and now through action of the American Standards Association we are actually using an inch based on conversion from the International meter which is neither our own legal inch or the British legal inch — and the British are using it too. Table I shows this history of the legal inch in the United States."
"THE idea of transmitting and receiving independent signals over a common line by means of synchronized switches at the terminals is quite old and has been used in multiplex telegraphy for many years. In general if N signal channels are to be provided over one line, the switching cycle includes N equal time intervals, one of which is allotted to each channel. Each channel is connected to the line throughout a part of its particular time interval and is disconnected throughout the remainder of the cycle. Absence of interference between the channels depends upon the fact that the channels are connected to the line throughout mutually exclusive time intervals. It is thus possible to avoid the use of channel band filters such as are necessary in carrier systems employing frequency as the basis of separation."
"The concepts of phase and envelope delay, as applied to any linear system, rather than only to a medium, are discussed. Criteria are set up for the time of occurrence of that part of an aperiodic signal which corresponds to a small segment of the spectrum. The original spectrum of the signal gives the time of entry and this spectrum as modified by the phase characteristic of the system gives the time of exit."
"Present-day program networks are reviewed from the standpoints of engineering, design, and operation as developed to meet the needs of the broadcasters. The factors requiring consideration in the further development of program networks in anticipation of future needs are also discussed. The presentation of the paper is supplemented by a demonstration of the quality obtainable by transmission over various types of telephone facilities."
"Notes on the Time Relation between Solar Emission and Terrestrial Disturbances.1 Clifford N. Anderson. Although the correlation between general solar activity and terrestrial disturbances is quite evident, the association of individual storms with specific sunspot groups has never been very satisfactory. Disturbances sometimes have occurred when no sunspots were visible and at other times large sunspots have been unaccompanied by any abnormal disturbances. A possible explanation of such anomalies may lie in longer transit times for the disturbing solar emission than is usually assumed. Some indication is given in this paper that these transit times may range from periods as short as only one or two days to as much as three months. The corresponding velocities for the above transit times are of the order of 2000 and 20 kilometers per second."
"W. R. Bennett, B.S., Oregon State College, 1925; A.M., Columbia University, 1928. Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. Mr. Bennett has been engaged in the study of the electrical transmission problems of communication."
"The American Standards Association is a federation of trade associations, technical societies, and departments of the Federal Government. It was organized in 1918 as a result of the country's experience during the World War, and has since served as the national clearing house for standards. Some 400 American Standards have been approved to date in a wide variety of industrial fields and in the field of industrial and public safety. — Some years ago at the request of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers, the American standards Association organized a Committee on Motion Picture Standards. This might be said to be the beginning of national standardization in the photographic field. The committee brought together, under the sponsorship of the SMPE, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the Acoustical Society of America, and a wide circle of scientific, engineering, and commercial groups interested in cinematography. Some of the standards approved by the ASA through the coöperative work of these many groups have become world-wide. There are 33 standards and recommended practices now before the ASA for approval as a result of long and arduous work by the motion picture Sectional Committee. — The association is also very actively engaged in the development of national standards for photography. A draft standard for determining photographic speeds of certain types of negative materials will probably be published in a few weeks for trial and criticism."
"The American Standards Association is now publishing a proposed method for determining photographic speed of roll film, film packs, and miniature camera films. The method was drawn up by the committee on photographic standardization (Z38), whose project was discussed in a previous issue.1 The method is being published for trial and criticism for a period of approximately one year, at the end of which time it will be considered for adoption as an American Standard.2 If it is finally approved as an American Standard, it is expected that it may be used as a basis for recommended exposures for picture-taking and for assigning speed numbers to films."
"A description of the system is given with line drawings illustrating the optical design together with operational characteristics of the system and an account of how it has been adapted to existing studio technic. — The stage channels, which are all mobile, are described with illustrations, and methods of setting the channels up for operations are discussed."
"This paper is not a discussion of any specific commercial ground-noise reduction system, but rather of general principles, and is an effort to formulate a statement of the desired characteristics of a ground-noise reduction system, in terms of such factors as promptness of opening, peak reading, and filtering. In this it is assumed that anticipation is not employed. It is desirable to limit the filtering to a single stage of resistance-capacity filtering (or equivalent). Slow closing helps filtering and peak reading. The better the peak-reading properties of the circuit and the less the filtering delay, the smaller can the margins be made without causing too frequent clipping. — A number of circuits are discussed which have been proposed for improving the filtering without sacrificing quickness of opening or reasonably rapid closing. — In some operations, anticipation is entirely practicable, and if this is done, it appears possible to provide an almost perfect envelope current."
"The duplication of 16-mm films involves many relatively intricate problems not encountered in the laboratory processing of 35-mm sound-films. These problems have given rise to procedures and apparatus radically different from those in use in 35-mm. — The two major differences that are especially significant are (1) the use of reversal for original films; (2) the existence of but one row of sprocket-holes on the 16-mm sound-film. — It is interesting to note that all our present standards in 16-mm blindly assume the negative-positive method of operation, ignoring entirely the reversal and Kodachrome. At the present time even the emulsion position of the 16-mm film is standardized on the basis of a 35-mm sound negative and 35-mm picture negative as originals. As a result, our 16-mm dimensions so derived from 35-mm are inconsistent with the projector dimensions at present in use, and inconsistent with the pressing needs arising from the direct 16-mm field. — Much of the difficulty arises from the rather obvious lack of concern displayed by the 35-mm entertainment industry and the very rapid simultaneous growth of direct 16-mm in educational and industrial applications especially in connection with the duplication of sound on Kodachrome. — Some of the special processes and special apparatus features involved are described which have made possible workable solutions to the problems involved."
"The March of Time requires equipment of great portability and simplicity of operation, yet retaining good quality. By using Class B push-pull, variable-area recording, a complete noise-reduction sound system weighing fifty pounds was obtained. This single system was used in production of the feature picture The Ramparts We Watch. Problems arise from (1) recording on panchromatic negative, (2) lack of control over negative processing, (3) instability of recording unit caused by rough use of camera on which it is mounted, and (4) distortion due to lateral track shift. Means for overcoming these handicaps sufficiently have been found. Single system can be used without great sacrifice in quality, where time and space are factors."
"Television utilizes certain elements of operative photography. In live-subject presentations these include composition, focus, contrast range, intra-image contrast of one object from another, dolly shots, panning, and certain aspects of lighting. — In television, operative maneuvers must be quickly and smoothly executed. The camera in question may be supplying the outgoing image at the time in question, or, if not, it should rapidly be made available for change in camera angle on the program. — The equipment and technic evolved at W6XAO to meet these requirements during several years of telecasting are described."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held, in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"Nearly 200 members and guests of the Society assembled at the Fiftieth Semi-Annual Banquet held at the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York, N. Y., on October 22nd. This banquet commemorated the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Society's founding."
"Conditions surrounding widespread measurement of reverberation time in theaters by a theater service organization require that the measuring equipment stress economy in size, in cost, and in time for a set of measurements, and the readings provided must be in such form that an acoustical specialist is not required for their interpretation. These requirements must be satisfied even to the sacrifice of information on secondary properties of the decay characteristic. — Several types of direct-reading reverberation-time meter circuits were devised and one of these types, in trial quantity, is now giving service in the field. These instruments integrate the decaying signal over approximately a 5-db interval beginning after approximately 18 db of decay, and the result is translated into reverberation time by meter scales. Thus the first 22 db (approx.) of the decay characteristic is encompassed by the reading and it is shown that the contained energy includes essentially all the reverberant energy important to quality. — Reverberation measurements are made with these instruments at the time that acoustical response measurements are being made, and under these conditions 150 time readings may be made throughout the auditorium and over the audio spectrum in a total added time of forty minutes. Practically no further treatment of the data is required."
"A theory is set forth to explain the well known level losses, in particular of the upper frequency range, occurring in the reproduction of lateral-cut records. — The performance of a pick-up stylus with a spherical point, riding in a laterally modulated record groove, is discussed from the point of view of the elastic properties of the record material. After introducing certain permissible simplifications, the elastic deformations of the two supporting groove walls are calculated, under the influence of the steady vertical pick-up force, the stylus inertia, and the stylus stiffness. Due to the fact that both forces and geometry are different on the two walls the respective elastic deformations are also found to be different for both walls. This fact results in a displacement of the pick-up stylus from the position which it would assume in an ideally rigid record groove and is responsible for the difference between the reproduced amplitude and the recorded one. Playback loss and translation loss are thus explained and quantitatively predicted. — The discussion of the loss equation leads to a number of conclusions. It is found that in contradistinction to a theoretical pick-up with infinitely small vertical force and stylus impedance, it appears advisable to provide a practical pick-up with a definite stylus mass, in order to counteract effectively the playback loss due to the steady vertical force. The translation loss can thus be reduced to zero in systems with constant groove velocity if the pick-up constants—in particular, the stylus mass—are properly chosen. In systems with variable groove velocity (standard disk recording) the translation loss can not be made to vanish but an increase in the absolute playback level of the upper frequency range can be achieved, thus improving the signal-to-noise ratio."
"A complete analysis is given of the non-linear distortions due to the tracking error of the pick-up mechanism in the reproduction of lateral-cut disk recordings. The separate treatment of tracking distortion is permissible as long as the overall distortion of the reproduction is tolerable, the system being “almost linear,” or the various distortion products superposable. — For the simplest case of a sinusoidal signal, it is possible to derive explicitly the whole Fourier spectrum of the reproduced signal, the mathematical proposition being the same as in the mechanical two-body problem. For general signals, an explicit operational expansion of the distorted signal is obtained. — As the kinematical effect of tracking error consists of an amplitude controlled advance and delay of the pick-up, the harmonic distortion may be characterized as made up of the side-bands of frequency modulation of the signal by itself. Compared with the ordinary type of non-linear distortion due to curved static characteristics, which may be correspondingly characterized as amplitude automodulation, the spectral character of tracking distortion stresses the higher frequency components. For second-order distortion which is prevalent, the emphasis is proportional to frequency. — The analysis shows, that both absolute and nuisance effects of tracking distortion are considerably greater than commonly assumed, published values usually being underestimates, due to omission of rigorous procedure. Tracking distortion is given approximately by the tracking error weighted with the inverse of the groove radius; the weighted error is referred to the mean groove radius of the record. The recording characteristic affects distortion products independently of their mechanisms. — Pick-up design as based on the analysis should reduce the weighted tracking error as much as possible. For optimal design, Tchebyshev approximation, commonly used in electric wave-filter design, is used. For straight arms, where only one design parameter, i. e., the underhang, is available, optimal approximation of zero distortion is of first order; for offset arms, where both offset angle and overhang are adjustable, it is of second order and thus much closer. The influence of deviations from optimal design due to errors of mounting is investigated as well as the combined effect of offset angle and stylus friction on the lifting force and its reduction by suitably modified design. The compromise design of multi-purpose arms is also treated. Simple design formulas are developed throughout, covering the various record sizes, speeds, and arm lengths. It is found that offset arms are much superior to straight arms. Tracking distortion can be reduced to negligible magnitude with properly designed offset arms even under adverse conditions, such as short arm length and appreciable mounting tolerance."
"The problem of transporting film and of distributing it to the thousands of theaters in the conntry is a considerable economic problem. Approximately ninety per cent of all film shipped between exchanges and theaters is handled by trucks operating out of thirty-two film-distributing centers sbattered throughout the country. — The paper describes in considerable detail the truckman's routine in picking up and delivering film between the exchanges and the theaters."
"The attendance at the 50th Semi-Annual Convention at the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York was remarkably good and no great difficulty was experienced in securing papers of good quality and interest in spite of the National Emergency. These facts show the wisdom of the decision of the Board of Governors some time ago to continue to hold the usual two conventions per year. On succeeding pages of this issue of the Journal will be found the program of papers as actually followed at the sessions."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., at prevailing rates."
"This article describes the planning and construction of the world's largest animated motion picture studio, explaining the routine and the problems encountered in production of these pictures, together with the facilities provided in the new plant for solving these problems. The studio is unique in that it was built from scratch on a vacant plot of ground with no restrictions by existing facilities to hamper planning. It is comprised of some twenty buildings on a 51-acre plot and includes, among other things, one of the most complete air-conditioning plants in the country."
"To pioneer has always been with me an obsession. Perhaps the yearning to explore new fields was an inheritance from colonial ancestors. Vanished geographical frontiers still left far vaster regions in science and technology to explore. When early wireless began to be a bit crowded the radio telephone field, then scarcely a dream even among communication engineers, beckoned me irresistibly. This primitive beginning of the radio broadcast, in 1908, logically necessitated the development of the electronic amplifier from the audion detector tube (Fig. 1); and thus again I managed to escape the crowd. And when, in 1912, this amplifier proved to be also an oscillator, a boundless ocean disclosing alluring archipelagoes of practical application was opened to scientific research."
"Although the new Twentieth Century camera was designed primarily to reduce noise, it also embodies many of those conveniences and devices which spell speed and aid in cost cutting. — The camera has been designed and built along new principles and, instead of trying to hold the noise in the camera case or the blimp, the noise has been reduced at its source. The fast-moving reciprocating parts are as light and as small as possible, and when assembled yield uniform acceleration and deceleration, with a resultant optimum movement of the film and a reduction in noise-making vibration. This, when coupled with a patented sound-insulating mount for the film-moving mechanism, reduces the noise output to a level substantially equivalent to the noise level of the best blimped camera available. Other features included in the camera are described in the paper."
"This paper discusses some of the problems involved in the consideration of suitable standards now before the National Television Systems Committee. Resolution is approached from a standpoint of the number of lines and fields within the limits of presently assigned channels. Related problems touched upon are flicker frequency vs. illumination, and some of the difficulties which must be guarded against with colored images such as rainbow effects and flicker, both of which can be minimized by using relatively high frame frequencies. The effects of motion, which tend to smear detail, are discussed in relation to frame and field frequency. — The major limitations of present scanning spot shape and intensity distribution, which determine the vertical and horizontal widths of confusion, have been removed in the laboratory, introducing the possiblity of markedly improved definition with a given number of lines and fields, which must be reckoned with in determining standards."
"This paper describes the methods by which the National Broadcasting Company provided television coverage of the Democratic and Republican political conventions, for the benefit of the television audience in New York City and surrounding areas. — Due to lack of television transmission facilities between Chicago and New York, portions of the Democratic Convention were recorded on film. The film was sent to the NBC film scanning studio in Radio City and presented as part of the afternoon and evening television programs. — Portable television pick-up equipment was sent to Philadelphia for the purpose of televising the Republican Convention proceedings. The television signal was transmitted 104 1/2 miles between the pick-up point and the NBC television transmitter in New York City by means of the coaxial cable facilities of the Bell System."
"The paper is an attempt to reduce to words a portion of the mechanical and artistic elements involved in the process of editing a motion picture. The authors realize that they are dealing with a highly controversial subject but feel that, as there is so little pertinent material available on this phase of motion picture production, this paper may serve as a preliminary to a study on a larger scale. — Consideration is given to the origin of film editing and its advancement from the purely mechanical craft of the early days to its present status as a contributing factor in the entertainment and dramatic values of the motion picture of today."
"The general requirements are discussed for an ideal recording-reproducing system as determined by the characteristics of hearing of a typical group of persons listening in a typical concert hall or theater. Quantitative values are set down as ideal objectives. Although microphones, loud speakers, and amplifiers which had been developed for the stereophonic transmission system were available for meeting these objectives, no recording medium was known which would record the wide dynamic range of intensity levels which the objectives indicated was necessary. However, this wide intensity range objective was met by using a compandor in the electrical system. A general discussion is given of the reasons for choosing the particular compandor used, for using variable-area rather than variable-density on the recorded film, for using three instead of a greater or lesser number of channels. A general description of the stereophonic sound-film system is given, including the enhancement feature. This feature makes it possible to re-record from the original recording, at the same time making any desirable changes in the dynamic range or frequency response in each of the three channels."
"The same mechanism is employed for propelling the film in both recording and reproducing. To permit recording the longer orchestral selections without interruption, the machines are designed to handle film in 2000-ft lengths. Special features of the film-propulsion system for obtaining great uniformity of speed at the translation points are described. The three signal-currents and one control-channel current are recorded by means of light-valves of identical construction. All four tracks are exposed while the film is passing over a free-running supporting roller, mounted on the same shaft with a new type of internally damped roller. In reproduction, each track is exposed through an objective of high aperture to light from an incandescent source. After passing through the film, the light from each track is carried by a glass rod to a photoelectric cell."
"In order best to fit the volume range of the program material into the volume range available in sound-film, it is generally advantageous to pre-equalize the program material before recording, and to compensate for the equalization by means of a complementary post-equalizer on reproduction. The type and amount of pre-equalization depends upon the properties of hearing and on the characteristics of the program material and the film noise. This paper discusses the relations between these quantities for systems using compandors, where the film noise varies up and down in level as the compandor gains vary. Ideally, different types of pre-equalization are needed for different types of program material, and a compromise must be made if a single type is to be used. The considerations leading to the choice of the pre-equalization used in the stereophonic recording and reproducing system are discussed."
"An electrical system is described which permits the use of sound-film with its limited signal-to-noise ratio, as a recording medium for wide-range stereophonic reproduction of symphonic music. Noise reduction is accomplished both by pre-equalization, rising to 18 db above 8000 cycles, and by automatic signal compression and expansion of 30 db. — To secure maximum suppression of noise and freedom from distortion, a pilot-operated, flat-top compandor system was selected. In each channel low-level signals are recorded on a separate track with constant gain 30 db above normal, which places them above the film noise. Higher-level signals cause automatic gain reductions and are recorded at substantially full modulation. These signals vary the intensity of a pilot tone, which in turn controls the compressor gain. There is a pilot frequency for each of the three channels, and the three are combined and recorded together on the fourth film track. During reproduction they are separated by filters, and operate expandors which restore the signals to their original forms but reduce the noise to inaudible levels. — The compressor and expandor gains are made proportional to pilot level in db, and the expandor range over which this relation holds is 45 db. Therefore a 15-db variation in average pilot level during reproduction causes a corresponding average level change but no distortion. This is used to allow expansion of the original signal intensity range during recording or re-recording by simple gain controls in the pilot circuits. — The paper describes the apparatus and circuits developed to accomplish these results, and discusses the frequency, load, distortion, noise, and dynamic characteristics of both constant and variable-gain elements. Also included are considerations of microphone and loud speaker arrangement and equalization to secure high fidelity of reproduction."
"This paper describes a light-valve incorporating large electromagnetic damping and operating directly through the ribbon resonance region. Resonance-region response, 5 db above that at low frequencies, is equalized by a suitable equalizer to provide uniform ribbon displacement per unit driving voltage over the band 30–14,000 cycles with very nearly constant phase-shift per cycle. Problems of structure and size have furnished a mechanical design with several interesting features, among which are mechanical robustness, protection against dirt and moisture, built-in ribbon and optical adjustments, and an optical system integral with the valve structure. This unit has proved a rugged, stable, light-modulator especially free from intermodulation products."
"Special damping rollers, capable of damping oscillations of rotating shafts without adding a steady load, were first devised by Prof. H. A. Rowland. These rollers had either an annular channel along the periphery filled with a liquid, or a wheel mounted loosely on a shaft coaxially fixed in an outer shell, the interspace being filled with a liquid. The theory of the action of such rollers in reducing fluctuations in the speed of rotation caused by disturbances from either the load or the driving side is developed and the results are illustrated by graphs. A new form of roller is described in which liquid filling an annular channel within the shell of the roller is coupled to the shell by a mechanical resistance."
"Cinching, or the sliding between layers of film within a reel, produces scratches and surface abrasions which increase the film, noise level. Cinching is more likely to occur in rewinding than anywhere else in the normal usage of sound-film. At the beginning of rewinding, when the supply reel is full and the take-up reel is empty, a small amount of torque is needed for rotating the take-up reel. Under this condition the film will be wound rather loosely. When the supply reel is nearly empty, relatively high film tension is required to produce a given torque on the supply reel. The torque to be applied to the take-up reel will then be high, on account of both the high film tension and the large radius arm of the film spiral on the reel. This high torque is almost certain to cause cinching in the loosely wound bottom portion of the reel. The conditions to be satisfied if cinching is to be avoided are analyzed. A power-driven rewind is described which meets these requirements. The film tension is controlled by the weight of the film on the supply reel at all times during the rewind."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., at prevailing rates."
"The Papers Committee submits for the consideration of the membership the following abstracts of papers to be presented at the Fall Convention. It is hoped that the publication of these abstracts will encourage attendance at the meeting and facilitate discussion. The papers presented at Conventions constitute the bulk of the material published in the Journal. The abstracts may therefore be used as convenient reference until the papers are published."
"I feel somewhat concerned in attempting to address this eminent group of scientists and technicians. I am under the impression that you may expect me to embark upon a technical discussion of problems in sound reproduction and an evaluation, from the standpoint of the musician, of the effectiveness of the solution of those problems. Perhaps I am even expected to make criticisms and to suggest directions in which the musician feels that sound reproduction may be improved."
"In order to avoid audible flutter, the velocity of sound-films past the scanning light-beam must not vary more than about 0.1 per cent. Such precision can not be obtained solely by constant speed motors and high-quality gears. Mechanical filters must suppress the “drive side” disturbances originating in motor, gear-train, and sprocket-teeth, and the “load side” disturbances due to variations in the film and in the friction load. — Early designs filtered only the drive-shaft rotation and steadied the film by recording on a large sprocket drum. Filtered sprockets in combination with fixed reproducer gates were not adaptable to modern requirements and were superseded by film-driven damped impedance drums(rotary stabilizers). — The recommended design avoids the troublesome inner flywheel bearings by a liquid stabilizer and overcomes the uncertain filtering properties of film compliance by means of elastic driving sprockets."
"This paper presents definitions of the three general types of carbon arcs used in the motion picture industry, the distinction between them being based upon the origin and the character of the radiation in each case. In the low-intensity arc, the principal light-source is incandescent solid carbon at or near its sublimation temperature; in the flame arc, the entire arc stream, made luminescent by the addition of flame materials, is used as the light-source; while the high-intensity arc is one in which, in addition to the light from the incandescent carbon, there is a significant amount of light originating in the gaseous region immediately in front of the carbon. With these concepts as a basis, the theory of light generation in each case is presented with the object of further clarifying the distinction between the three types of carbon arcs."
"This paper shows, both from previous data and fundamental considerations, the close control of carbon position necessary to obtain constant light on the projection screen, particularly with reflector-type high-intensity carbon arc lamps. Review of the characteristics of this type of lamp and optical system reveals that in order to obtain constant light on the screen it is necessary to avoid variation of carbon position and changes in arc current due to line-voltage fluctuations. Methods of arc control employing photoelectric cells and bimetallic thermostats directly responsive to carbon position have been analyzed with regard to their applicability for this purpose. Some examples of these have been constructed and have demonstrated that automatic devices of simple construction are capable of maintaining constant the intensity, distribution, and color of the light on the projection screen."
"Recent years have seen improvements in still and movie stereoscopy that have given impetus to their commercial exploitation. The developments that have resulted in their commercial acceptance have been in the nature of refinements rather than in radically new devices. Experimental work on many such new devices has received notice in the public press and in technical journals."
"More and more attention is being given to the naturalness and clarity of reproduction of sound in motion picture theaters. To accomplish these it is necessary to improve not only the equipment in both the theater and the studio, but also the acoustics, and to reduce noise in both the theater and in the sets where the sound is recorded. — It is the purpose of this paper to describe the acoustic and noise problems encountered in recording, and to describe ways in which these problems have been met. This includes a discussion of the ways of minimizing reverberation in outdoor scenes on a sound-stage; of reducing sound resonance between ceiling and floor, and between parallel walls of sets; of reducing reflection from concave surfaces, nearby hard walls, windows, table and desk tops; of reducing resonance in small rooms such as telephone booths, boat and train interiors. Also included is a discussion of the progress recently made in reducing equipment noises such as those from cameras, background projection machines, arc lamps, wind machines, treadmills, etc., and ways of reducing noises caused by actors and horses on hardwood floors, gravel walks, and on raised structures, such as artificial hills built of wood; and of noise created by artificial rain. The control of outside noises such as those of traffic, aeroplanes, and wind is discussed."
"This symposium on projection comprises three parts: (1) Projection Room Equipment Requirements; (2) The Projection Room—Its Location and Contents; and (3) Factors Affecting Sound Quality in Theaters."
"Letter ballots taken by the SMPE Standards Committee recently gave approval to two projects, viz., (1) the designation of the direction of winding 16-mm film perforated along one edge, and (2) the method of edge-numbering 16-mm motion picture film. These projects have been approved by the Board of Governors and are published here in accordance with the Standardization Procedure adopted recently by the Board."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"A modulator using a new vibrating-mirror unit has been developed for recording double-width variable-area sound-track. The noise-reduction shutter is at the slit, making it possible to record, with noise-reduction, class A push-pull track comprising two standard bilateral tracks, one of which is located in accordance with the dimensional standards for single track. While this has been its principal use to date, it is readily adaptable for other types of track. A visual monitor shows operation of the noise-reduction shutter and the amplitude of signal modulation in both directions from the base-line with a positive indication of peak over-load. An exposure meter is included to serve as a check on lamp current and track balance. The light-source is a tungsten filament lamp which will properly expose fine-grain emulsions to “white” light or standard emulsions through an ultraviolet filter."
"Methods of determining the performance characteristics of microphones by acoustic measurements are described. Work Factors involving the accuracy of the methods are discussed. The correlation between a microphone's performance as determined by acoustic measurement and by listening tests is reported. Application of both types of test to a studio type of cardioid microphone is given as an example."
"The anticipated reduction of film markets attendant upon disturbances in Europe caused many studios to reëxamine production routines and practices with a view to reducing costs without impairing quality. — A routine, in widespread use in much the same manner, which gave promise of cost saving was that of marking “takes,” at time of photographing, for ready identification through subsequent stages of picture production. The process of so marking film is referred to, within the studios generally, as “slating.” — Analysis of the shortcomings of the slating method employed by our studio led to the development of a slating attachment mounted upon the camera blimp or iris rods and operated by the assistant camerman. — The design requirements formulated and the manner and degree of compliance embodied in the device now in production use are described."
"This work was undertaken to determine the benefits of a true monochromatic optical system for variable-density recording in the ultraviolet region. A full quartz optical system consisting of both spherical and cylindrical lenses was used, having a reduction of 10-1 from the light-valve spacing. The reduction in lens distortion and improvement in general image quality is reported along with intermodulation tests on the system, which uses an automatic air-controlled mercury-vapor lamp system."
"The observations reported are the result of an investigation to determine the effect of a delay between the exposure and development of modern motion picture films. The stability of the latent image in terms of speed, gradation, graininess, and color response has been studied. — In general, a definite speed increase was noted on negative emulsions, a decrease on positive emulsions. There were also changes in gradation and graininess. The detailed findings which vary considerably with the individual emulsion type are given, followed by a general discussion and interpretation of the results. A brief review of the literature is included."
"It would be desirable to have negative exposure control on the basis of an exact science. Toward this end the functioning of the eye as it views a subject and the photographic reproduction of the subject is studied. The brightness of the subject is broken down into its components of reflectance (a constant) and incident illumination (a variable). The eye compensates for changes in the illumination. The “tone” of the object is based on its reflectance. It is this that determines the print density used to portray the object. Between the subject's fixed reflectance and the print's fixed density lies the variable of negative density. — A system is proposed whereby given reflectance in the subject is represented by fixed density in the negative. Operation of the system involves negative exposure control by measurement of incident light. Measurement of effective incident illumination is accomplished by a photoelectric meter specifically designed to respond to the three-dimensional characteristics of incident illumination. The system is free from many of the influences which tend to cause undesirable variations and errors in negative exposure. It provides a means of putting negative exposure control on the basis of an exact science."
"The California Consumers Corporation of Los Angeles set aside one of its large ice-storage buildings to introduce to the studios a new method of making realistic snow scenes. The purpose of the ice-storage building was to furnish a low-temperature sound-stage, where water ice could be used for snow, and enable the cast's, breaths to become visible, as actually occurs in cold or wintry climates. — Snow is manufactured on the low-temperature sound-stage by means of specially constructed portable blowers, grinding 50-pound blocks of ice and expelling through suitable nozzle a fine, aerated snow, directed to the set where and when needed. — The introduction of Technicolor to the low-temperature sound-stage created many new problems in ventilation, due to the low temperature of the atmosphere and quantity of air movement needed to remove gases and smoke from the stage during shooting periods. — The unusual heat load requirements necessitated the construction of external bunker systems to augment the existing refrigeration for color production. This was accomplished by the combined use of water ice and ammonia refrigeration in these bunkers, giving a total refrigerating capacity of approximately 650 tons in the system to chill 64,000 cfm of fresh air to 20° F."
"A brief discussion of the desirable qualifications for projectionists, both as to theoretical and practical training. Reference is made to a system of licensing and examination in the Province of Alberta, Canada, as contrasted with unsatisfactory conditions prevailing in a number of parts of the United States."
"The history of the sound picture dates back to 1877, the year of Edison's announcement of the phonograph, which brought the realization that the human voice could be mechanically reproduced. Between that time and the time of the successful demonstration of the motion picture in 1889 there were a number of scientific dreamers who hoped to make talking photographs. They tried to synchronize the human voice or music to slide photographs; and with the advent of the “living pictures” these experimenters tried to make of them talking motion pictures."
"The following American Standards and Recommended Practices (Z22.2 to Z22.35) comprise the entire body of motion picture projects approved by the American Standards Association, and in force at the present date. Z22.34 and Z22.35 were approved September 20, 1930; all the others listed below were approved January 10, 1941, either as revisions of previous specifications or as entirely new standards or recommended practices. In some instances the revisions consist only in changes of Z-numbers. The present publication supersedes all previous publications of American Motion Picture Standards and Recommended Practices."
"These theater acoustic recommendations are based upon the experience of architects, acoustical and equipment engineers, and studio operating personnel in designing, equipping, and maintaining theaters. They were prepared after conferences and discussions between the Committee and prominent representatives of these various groups. Through such cooperation, it is now possible and practicable to formulate general principles to guide the acoustic design and construction of motion picture theaters. These principles, when applied, will improve sound reproduction and minimize or eliminate costly alterations in the completed auditorium."
"This report includes a brief outline of the reasons for the formation of this Sub-Committee, the problems under consideration, and the manner of approaching a solution of these problems. — In addition, tests and acoustical measurements as previously made are described and certain conclusions drawn."
"A line microphone is a microphone consisting of a large number of small tubes with the open ends, as pick-up points, equally spaced along a line and the other ends connected by means of a common junction to a transducer element for converting the sound vibrations which converge upon the junction into the corresponding electrical variations. Several types of line microphones with the useful directivity along the line axis are described as follows: a simple line, a line with progressive delay, and two lines with progressive delay and a pressure gradient element."
"Proposals of specifications for (1) 35-mm and 16-mm raw-stock cores, (2) for screen brightness, (3) for rescinding the lantern-slide specifications previously included among the SMPE Recommended Practices, and (4) specifications for cutting and perforating 35-mm positive raw-stock and negative raw-stock have received initial approval of the SMPE Standards Committee in meeting and final approval by letter-ballot of the entire Standards Committee membership. The specifications were approved by the Board of Governors on January 24, 1941, and therefore are now Recommended Practices of the SMPE. This approval by the Board of Governors is in accord with the new standardization procedure for the Standards Committee also adopted by the Board on the same date."
"During the Conventions of the Society, Symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held, in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"When your Society was founded twenty-five years ago, the motion picture, with slow and faltering steps, was just beginning to grope its way into the hearts and affections of the public. The pioneers of that seemingly far away period had enthusiastic confidence in this youngster among the arts, but the world at large too often looked down its nose at the “movies.” The child grew and developed, soon was taking prodigious strides, until today the motion picture is the most democratic of the arts of our century, and the universal entertainment of all the people everywhere."
"July 24, 1941, marks the Twenty-Fifth Anniversary of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers. In 1916 when a group of twenty-six technical men, headed by Mr. C. Francis Jenkins of Washington, D. C., met with the idea of formulating a motion picture engineering society, little did they realize what might come of their idea. The Society as a mere infant passed through the First World War with only a few scars. As the years passed the Society grew in membership and in strength until it eventually became a nationwide organization. Some years after its inception it began to reach out into the world for membership and as a result of its far-reaching activities it has become without question the outstanding motion picture engineering society in the world today."
"Historically speaking, twenty-five years is an infinitesimal portion of time, but in relation to the motion picture industry, twenty-five years covers almost the entire period of birth, growth, and adolescence of the industry. Twenty-five years ago I sat at a meeting with twenty-five other men who had somehow chosen “moving pictures” as their interest and livelihood, and we put this Society to work for us."
"A photographic film consists of a layer of gelatin coated on cellulose base in which are dispersed a great number of very small silver bromide crystals. When exposed to light, electrons are liberated in the crystals and these collect at certain points, where they are neutralized by silver ions which deposit atoms of metallic silver. This metallic silver deposited in definite specks forms what is known as the latent image, which makes possible the development of the crystal. The surface of each silver bromide crystal in the gelatin layer of an emulsion immersed in the developer is protected by charged layers of bromide and potassium ions. The development of the grain is initiated by the break in this charged layer caused by the presence of the silver latent image. When the developer acts on the silver bromide crystal, metallic silver is produced in a ribbon-like form, a tangled mass of which forms the developed silver grain."
"Although the carbon arc is usually considered as a continuous source of light, the experiments reported in this paper show that it may be used for the generation of light surges as well. If these surges are made to occur at a rate so fast that the arc stream does not have time to deionize between them, then the electrical circuit may be completely broken at the conclusion of each surge and closed again to initiate the next one. For longer periods between surges, a very low maintaining current is employed. The timing and duration of the light pulses are controlled by electronic switching of half-cycle current surges from an alternating-current supply. — For a given size of carbon, much higher brilliancy and candle-power can be obtained in intermittent than in continuous operation; a brilliancy of 1600 candles per sq-mm is reported for a 7-mm carbon of the “Suprex” type. The efficiency of the intermittent carbon arc is limited by the thermal lag in the electrodes, in that they continue to radiate energy for a considerable period after the current is reduced to zero at the end of each surge."
"A technic is described by which acoustic conditions surrounding singers and instrumentalists during performance may be made to approximate those of a highly reverberant studio, irrespective of the normal acoustic characteristics of the theater, stage, or studio in which the performance takes place."
"A survey was made of studio experience, and measurements were made of stages, review rooms, and other units. These data were correlated and used as a valuable guide in the determination of the optimum characteristics and dimensions recommended for major studio scoring stages, monitor rooms, dubbing rooms, review rooms, and studio theaters. — Information regarding Hollywood preview theaters is included in an Appendix."
"When the spectral sensitivity of positive film is simulated by the use of a suitable combination of phototube and optical filter in the integrating sphere densitometer, the printing density of any type of negative, irrespective of grain size, with any type of base or backing, may be accurately determined. Printing density is practically independent of the type of light-source or filtering employed in the printer. Relationships between printing and visual diffuse densities for various types of negatives have been established."
"A mobile two-way horn system has been constructed to provide improved quality playbacks to sound-recording stages, the same horn equipment also being useful in connection with high-level announcing systems. The material in this paper covers certain of the mechanical and electrical design features of this horn system, together with brief descriptions of other new portions of the playback system, including an equalized feedback type disk playback amplifier, a playback control system for the production mixer, and a compact and easily handled high-quality speaker for use in connection with the direct recording of low-level playbacks."
"The physical and physiological side of the problem of thermal agitation noise in microphones is reviewed, in connection with a recently proposed noise rating. Following this, different microphone types are discussed and compared with regard to their noise performance, and to possibilities and inherent limitations of noise reduction. Multiple piezoelectric microphones which lend themselves particularly well to the design of quiet units are treated in more detail. The design principles of the associated tube circuits for full realization of the inherent efficiency or noise performance of microphones are discussed. Application is made to the design of minimum-noise combinations of different microphone types; some performance data are given of an experimental unidirectional model composed of piezoelectric elements and a ribbon."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"This paper discusses the multiple-speaker system known as “Fantasound,” currently used with Walt Disney's “Fantasia.” — First are discussed some of the deficiencies of comentional sound-picture reproduction, and then a very complete history of the Fantasound development. In addition, are described in considerable detail the various important elements of the system."
"Two features that would add to the enjoyment and realism of sound in motion picture theaters are an increased volume range and a more widespread source of sound for music and effects reproduction. A method of accomplishing these aims is described which employs a control-track printed in the sprocket-hole area of the release print to operate a variable-gain amplifier and loud speaker control equipment."
"Several types of multiple speaker reproducing systems have been demonstrated and used during the past two years. For general theater use such a system must be simple and must employ a release print that is interchangeable with standard release prints. — The use of a number of loud speaker systems spread across the front of the theater and operating in parallel will effect a material improvement in the reproduction of music and “sound effects.” By providing supplementary speakers well to the sides of the screen, operated by a control track so that they are faded out during dialog, an improvement in music and effects reproduction is obtained without harming dialog. — The sprocket-hole area may be used for the control track, thus eliminating the necessity of changing existing film standards or obsoleting reproducer equipments."
"After a brief introduction the paper gives a discussion of the steps of sprocket design with the ultimate aim of keeping the flutter to a minimum. — First the selection of the proper sprocket-tooth pitch is considered, then the steps required in arriving at the proper basic tooth profile, and finally the modified tooth profile are illustrated by an example. — Curves of theoretical flutter versus per cent of film shrinkage are given for several cases for a 24-tooth sprocket. The effect of number of teeth is also shown by curves. — An analysis of film and friction forces gives a clue to proper film guide design. — A word about sprocket-tooth shapers and results obtained from an experimental sprocket conclude the paper. — The degree of accuracy and the directness of the method, as well as the resulting optimum performance, are noteworthy."
"A method is described for determining the sprocket-tooth pitch and consequently the base diameter, the tooth profile shape and tooth dimensions of film moving sprockets together with the tooth location transverse to the direction of film travel. The method assumes that the film dimensions are known or can be determined. Computations are given for a 35-mm 32-tooth sprocket and data showing the allowable film stretch or shrink for various numbers of teeth in mesh."
"Process projection photography requires that the shutter of the projector and that of the camera open and close simultaneously. The relation between the shutter speeds and the pole frequencies of normal motion picture motor systems is such that there may be one, four, or five incorrect shutter relationships for each correct one, if the motors are interlocked at random. Earlier methods of insuring correct phasing between camera and projector shutters did not take proper account of the economic importance of fast and reliable operation. This paper presents the results of a time and economic study indicating savings of many thousands of dollars annually per studio, accruing from the use of a motor system which automatically phases the shutters of camera and projector, and which has a very high degree of reliability. The design and performance features of such a motor system are described in their relation to earlier efforts along this same line, together with a report on production use of the new system."
"The demand for near-ultraviolet radiation, commonly called “black light,” in the production of luminescent effects has shown the need of a technical approach to the problem. New technics of measurement, design information, and data on sources and materials are necessary to insure most effective use of these new media. — This paper covers suggestions for energizing fluorescent carpet, decorative wall and ceiling murals, and other decorative applications. Data are presented on sources of radiation, standard filters for absorbing the visible light emitted by the sources, and the relative response characteristics of various types of luminescent materials. The effect of extraneous visible light in masking the brightness produced by fluorescence is discussed. Methods for measuring the near-ultraviolet energy from mercury light sources in the field as well as in the laboratory are explained."
"The work of previous investigations is reviewed and correlated with the results obtained in a comprehensive study of 96-cycle distortion due to the presence of sprocket-holes adjacent to the sound-track. This distortion has been known for some time. Much improvement has been made by the adoption of the magnetic-drive recorder, the non-slip printer, and the rotary stabilizer sound-head for the purpose of overcoming the problem of slippage. — Recording sound on doubly perforated film will introduce 96-cycle disturbances of both amplitude and frequency modulation because of the film flexure and possible variations of film speed at the sprocket-hole rate. — Processing sound records on doubly perforated film will introduce a 96-cycle hum and amplitude modulation depending upon the processing technic. — Printing sound records on doubly perforated film introduces 96-cycle hum and disturbances of both amplitude and frequency modulation, due to film flexure and variations of film speed at sprocket-hole rate. — Reproducing sound records on doubly perforated film introduces 96-cycle disturbances because of film flexure. — Since it has been proved that the presence of the sprocket-holes adjacent to the soundtrack is the source of all 96-cycle distortion, and the omission of the sprocket-holes entirely eliminates this distortion, it becomes obvious that singly perforated film should be used throughout all phases of sound recording and reproduction if complete freedom from 96-cycle distortion is to be obtained. — Substantial improvement can be realized if the singly perforated film is employed only for the original negative, master positive, and re-recorded negative, and doubly perforated film for the release prints. The use of singly perforated film throughout all phases has a decided advantage of providing additional space, without affecting the picture dimensions for a double-width sound-track or two sound-tracks, one for control or other purposes."
"The optical glasses made by combining silica with various other oxides are similar in that the silica will not dissolve in water or weak acids at the same rate as the other materials contained in the glass. This property of silicate glasses is involved in the accidental formation of colored stains on the surface of dense lead or barium glasses exposed to the weather, in the formation of surface haze on lenses exposed to tropical humidity, and in the formation of silica low-reflection films on glass by chemical treatment. — Quantitative data have been collected on the tendency to form surface stains and on the rate of dimming for all the common types of optical glass. Surface stains do not harm a lens and may increase its efficiency. Any haze that forms on a lens exposed to a humid climate should be removed by careful cleaning. — Purposely formed silica surface films for increasing the transparency of glass are identical with the stains that form accidentally on dense lead and barium glasses except that they are of controlled thickness and may be stabilized to prevent any further increase in thickness. Chemical methods are now available for forming low-reflectivity surfaces on all of the common optical glasses. Proper heat treatment of these silica films will lower the rate of solution of the glass. The durability of a lens is greatly improved by this process. — The gain in light transmission that results when a silica surface film is formed by chemical treatment is less than that produced by films of low-refractive-index fluorides evaporated by the Cartwright and Turner method. There is no doubt but that both the evaporation process and the chemical process will be used in the optical industry. Each process has advantages depending on the circumstances of use."
"As early as 1892 it was known that the reflectivity of polished glass surfaces was reduced and the light transmission increased when a suitable film was present on the surface of the glass. Many efforts to produce such a film artificially met with only partial success. In the past five years, two different methods have been discovered that achieve the desired results. Only one of the processes, however, was satisfactory for commercial application. Great improvements have been made in the durability and weather resistance of the thin films deposited upon the lens surface by this method. Lenses coated by this improved process require no more careful handling than any good lens is entitled to; fingerprints and dust can be removed without detrimental effects to the coating. The thin films can not be scratched with anything less hard than a metal point. By this process, reflectivity can be reduced from an average of 5 per cent for untreated polished surfaces to as low as 0.5 per cent for treated ones. Experiments show that even greater reductions are possible and should be available in the near future."
"A description of an air squeegee for use on a continuous film processing machine is given. This squeegee was designed to eliminate water spots on the processed film and the design is such as to give ready access for cleaning and inspection. A waterproof tape splicer for patching leader to be used on a machine equipped with the squeegees mentioned is described. Patches made by this method have been found to be longer-lived than the conventional ones with metal clips and are responsible also for the use of less leader over a period of time."
"A new type of intermediate-size boom incorporating a number of very desirable features has been placed in serivice at the M-G-M Studio. The device is of the crane-arm, or boom, type, with a boom 9 feet in length carrying an underslung camera mounting. The camera may literally be laid upon the stage floor, or lifted to a maximum height of 16 feet. The entire boom-arm may be raised or lowered bodily by means of a motor-driven helical hoist."
"A type of mixing control is described that permits unusual efficiency of operation. It is applicable to all types of mixing, particularly the complicated operations such as recording music, re-recording, and radio broadcasting."
"A brief discussion of the activities, organization, and functions of the Inter-Society Color Council is given, followed by abstracts of twenty papers that have been jointly sponsored by the ISCC and its member bodies. The report concludes with a plea that members contact the delegates if there are matters that should be taken up with the Council."
"A new fire damper release and method of preventing smoke from being recirculated or pumped into a theater auditorium through the air-conditioning system in the absence of heat or flame has just been developed by the Motion Picture Division of the Connecticut State Police and is here described."
"During the Conventions of the Society, symposiums on new motion picture apparatus are held in which various manufacturers of equipment describe and demonstrate their new products and developments. Some of this equipment is described in the following pages; the remainder will be published in subsequent issues of the Journal."
"One of the contributing factors to sound-track degradation is sprocket-hole modulation. This is more commonly known as 96-cycle modulation, and results from non-uniform action of developer around the perforations during the time of processing. Its chief remedy is turbulation. — The practical aspects of controlling the amount of sprocket-hole modulation is described herein. Curves showing the increase of this distortion due to diminished turbulation are included as well as those showing the intermodulation of recorded sound by sprocket-hole agitation. The turbulation method employed at the Film Laboratory of Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation at Hollywood is disclosed and the various sensitometric means of control relative to this problem are given."
"A vibrating mirror light-modulator developed for 200-mil push-pull recording is described. Modern magnetic materials are used in the magnetic structure to obtain high electromagnetic efficiency and therefore adequate electromagnetic damping. Distortion is limited to low values by accurate mechanical balance of the armature. An inverse shunting network, to build the modulator impedance out to a constant resistance, has been developed, making the response characteristic substantially free from driving-circuit impedance, so that any desired frequency characteristic can be obtained by the insertion of a constant-resistance equalizer."
"Scanning, or probing, is fundamental to most objective investigation. A spatial scanning theory applicable to a space of any number of dimensions is described in which the relation between the field being scanned and the scanned output is expressed in terms of a scanning operator, or function. The relation between the probe qualities and the scanning operator can be expressed by means of Fourier's Integral Theorem so that either may be derived from the other. Examples of the application of the theory to record film and television scanning are discussed."
"For the most part, since the advent of talking pictures, motors have been employed whose performance is excellent. The various types of motor, however, differ widely in their ability to resist load irregularities and in their tendency to oscillate when a disturbance occurs. For the more critical applications these factors deserve careful consideration when the type or design is being selected. The principal types of synchronous motor are (1) the variable-reluctance or induced-pole motor, (2) the separately excited motor, (3) the a-c-d-c motor, (4) the hysteresis motor, (5) the low-speed multi-tooth motor (of the type used for electric clocks), (6) the poly-phase, uniform-torque modification of number 5, and (7) selsyn motors. — Many of the characteristics of synchronous motors may best be understood by assuming that the poly-phase winding produces a uniformly rotating magnetic field, but estimating the stiffness and stability demands a knowledge of the manner in which the a-c input varies with mechanical displacement. Generous pole-face grids are essential for stability. A-c-d-c motors have certain elements of instability as well as stabilizing factors, which are not present in straight synchronous motors. The magnitude of these effects can to some extent be controlled by the external circuit arrangements. Selsyn motors are less readily damped than regular synchronous motors, and for this reason arrangements by which the synchronous motors can be interlocked from standstill are of interest."
"This is an addition to the paper on “The Elimination of Hypo from Photographic Images,” by J. I. Crabtree, G. T. Eaton, and L. E. Muehler, published in the November, 1940, issue of the Journal on p. 484."
"This report contains an explanatory account of the various tests conducted by the Research Council Committee on set equipment noise conditions, upon which the Council's recommendations for reducing set noise due to arc lamps are based."
"This test code pertains to tests on apparatus bushings themselves apart from tests on the assembled apparatus."
"These standards apply to all types of fuses whether for indoor or outdoor service, except fuses for 600 volts and below."
"These standards cover assemblies of switchgear devices such as switches, interrupting devices, control, metering, protective and regulating equipment with associated interconnections and supporting structures. These standards do not apply to industrial control equipment, communication switchboards and switching equipment, or switchboards for shipboard."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"At no time has there been such an urgent need for an understanding of the chemical and physical behavior of matter as in the present emergency. With the unusual demands that have been made in the various applications of insulation material and of the allied electrical equipment, together with the refinements in apparatus stimulated by needs in the present war and equivalent applications, a fuller knowledge of the electrical behavior of matter is all the more essential. The situation has also become more involved with introduction of many new materials such as in the plastic and related insulation field to meet the needs which never have existed on such a scale as the present. Some of these new materials have been prompted as substitutes and others have resulted from modifications in processing. It is gratifying to note that contributions in the field of anomalous dispersion, though limited in number, reflect the distinct progress toward this much needed understanding of insulation material. Such information has enabled a better classification and evaluation of the sundry materials and should serve as a guide toward better processing and control in preparing materials."
"In a review of the progress of rubber insulation in 1941, it is obvious that the whole picture is overshadowed by the War. The use of rubber insulation involves a supply of rubber. We have been dependent to a large extent upon the Far East for this supply. French Indo-China, Thailand, Malaya, and the Dutch East Indies, have in the past, furnished 90% of our natural raw rubber. For the duration, and, perhaps, for some time after the end of the War, no material will be available from these areas. For a while, at least, rubber will be used for electrical insulation from stocks held in this country and from other non-Axis sources, such as South America, Liberia, and, perhaps, Ceylon. From. a commercial point of view, it is obvious that the rubber insulation picture has changed already and will undoubtedly change much more in the future."
"Reference will again be made to an important paper by H. H. Race, R. J. Hemphill, and H. S. Endicott on important properties of electrical insulating papers as this paper has been republished in “Wire and Wire Products” (1)."
"Although 1941 was a year or great activity in the plastics industry, no completely new plastic materials were introduced. Developments have been concerned largely with applications to specific industrial problems, with a trend away from decorative uses. The latter will be almost completely eliminated as war construction work claims increasing quantities or plastics for strategic purposes."
"One of the most important researches on mineral insulating oil deterioration is that of J. C. Balsbaugh and his associates at M. I. T., sponsored by the Engineering Foundation -- American Institute of Electrical Engineers. J.C. Balsbaugh, A.G. Assaf, and W.W. Pendleton (1) described the results of recent studies. A summary of the subjects studied and the results obtained are listed below: a) The effect of temperature on the oxidation and electrical characteristics of an oil of the light cable oil class, 100 S.U.S. at 100°F. The mechanism of the oxidation reaction was found to be the same up to 95°C. (tests conducted in the presence of copper and paper). Above 95°C. the reaction was of a different mechanism, and resulted in an excessive deterioration of the paper present. b) The oxidation and electrical characteristics of a series of heavy cable oils, around 2000 S.U.S. at 100°F. having varying aromatic content. There did not appear to be any specific relation between the aromaticity of the heavy oils and their electrical stability as indicated by the change in conduction with absorbed oxygen. With one exception, however, electrical stability with respect to time of deterioration was improved with decreasing aromaticity as reflected by increasing degree of refining. c) The effect of limited amounts of oxygen on an aromatic-free oil of the light cable oil class, 100 S.U.S. at 100°F. It was shown that limited amounts of oxygen in the presence of copper, and copper and paper caused very high conductance losses. d) The oxidation and electrical characteristics of two pure hydrocarbons, cis-decalin, and hexadecane (cetane). Oxidation and electrical characteristics of the hexadecane gave results similar to the limited tests on the aromatic-free oil. During the oxidation induction period, extremely high conductance losses were noted for the small amounts of oxygen absorbed. Cis-decalin, on the other hand, exhibited very low conduction losses for the large amount of oxygen absorbed."
