"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"Since 1926 many significant field tests on high-voltage circuit breakers have been made on the American Gas and Electric Company's central system, which have served as an important aid in highvoltage circuit breaker development. Such tests have also served as a means for studying and checking the behavior of this large power system under short-circuit conditions. A 138-kv air-blast breaker of novel design has recently been given a series of field for ultrahigh-speed reclosing service. Cirthat expected of any modern oil breaker of conventional design was obtained and, in addition, an unusual superspeed reclosing performance was obtained which points the way to a possible liberalization of existing derating factors for this kind of service. While still somewhat of an innovation in the high-voltage field, the air-blast circuit breaker undoubtedly has certain basic advantages. It is believed that these tests are an important step forward in developing the possibilities of the air-blast breaker for high-voltage service and that they have brought the entire electric power industry closer to the possibility of benefit from an application of this interrupting principle."
"The need for an improved method of measuring starting torque of large induction starting synchronous motors as compared to the power input and dynamometer methods, has led to the use of the acceleration oscillogram. A low ripple, permanent magnet type d-c generator is driven by the motor, and traces a time-speed oscillogram, from which acceleration, and the torque producing it, may be calculated. Comparative torque tests, at full and reduced voltage, made by this and the other motor showed the definite advantage of the acceleration tests in combined convenience and accuracy. Interesting facts about synchronous motor starting torques, not accurately shown by previous tests, have been brought to light. The acceleration or deceleration oscillogram is also applied to the measurement of torques or losses of very small high-speed motors by using other methods of rotation indication, involving no loading of the motor."
"For many years the company with which the authors are associated endeavored to find some satisfactory method of testing generator insulation in the field. With this in mind, it was decided to experiment with higher d-c potentials. Several d-c testers were built and a series of tests made. This paper describes the progress during the first ten years of testing generators in the field with high d-c voltage."
"In the past designers as well as users of current transformers have employed ratio error and phase-angle curves in which the abscissa represents primary or secondary current to a linear scale. Numerous curves were necessary both for obtaining a clear picture of the performance characteristics as well as for determining the errors for the multiplicity of possible secondary burdens. Part I of this paper shows that a more functional picture of current-transformer operation is obtained by replacing these commonly used curves by the admittance-vector locus of the secondary winding with the primary open circuited, the end point of the vector representing the independent variable in a curvilinear co-ordinate system. The numerous ratio and phase- angle curves resulting from various secondary burdens and, in case of multiratio transformers, from different numbers of turns, when referred to this new co-ordinate system revert to one single curve. Ratio error and phase angle for any burden at any power factor, turn ratio, and secondary current can be scaled or read directly from a chart using as a basis the admittance vector locus of the steel forming the magnetic circuit of the transformer. For designers as well as users it is often advantageous to be in possession of analytical expressions for ratio error and phase angle."
"The development of high-capacity air-blast breakers in this country has taken place without the background of operating experience which has attended the use of oil circuit breakers and has, therefore, emphasized the need for testing this equipment at levels comparable with the assigned interrupting ratings. Although field short-circuit tests to verify circuit-breaker performance have been made on operating systems previously, they have been limited in most instances to moderate duty levels or, in the larger interrupting ratings, to the testing of high-voltage apparatus. Staging severe short-circuit tests at 15 kv introduces operating problems of greater significance since it virtually requires the application of the fault to the generating- station bus. This paper presents: 1. A résumé of the studies which indicated that it would be practicable to stage short-circuit tests ranging up to 2,000 megavolt-amperes directly on a particular generating-station bus. 2. A description of the physical plant equipment assembled for test purpose. 3. Operating experience during a series of 14 short circuits ranging from 200 to over 1,500 megavolt- amperes at 14.5 kv."
"Voice-frequency carrier-current telegraph systems used in this country and abroad have until now employed amplitude modulation, analogous to single current signalling in d-c telegraphy. A variety of so-called two-tone telegraph systems has been tried out by various workers, but none of these was adopted on a commercial scale because all required the employment of at least double the frequency spectrum space ordinarily assigned for amplitude modulation. The system described employs true frequency modulation to derive the advantages of polar current signalling, with the same spectrum efficiency as conventional amplitude systems, and secures at the same time freedom from attenuation change in the transmission medium and greater immunity to extraneous disturbing currents."
"An extensive oscillographic study has been made on power distribution feeders primarily to obtain data useful in the consideration of joint use of poles by power and telephone facilities. Some of the results, chiefly those obtained from three-phase, four-wire, multigrounded neutral feeders equipped with instantaneous ground relays and for immediate breaker reclosure, are believed to be of general interest and are presented herewith. Included are data on the performance of the protective devices utilized form clearing ground faults on the feeders included in the study, the effectiveness and certain limitations of these devices, and characteristics of the faults experienced."
"After preliminary development work systematic laboratory tests, closely simulating service conditions, were started in 1934 leading towards final development and improvement of gas-filled cable. The first full-size field installation of gas-filled cable was placed in service in 1938. The results of this work up to that time were summarized in an AIEE paper presented at the winter convention, January 1939. The present paper will deal with progress made since then, covering the whole range of voltage ratings from 10 kv to 138 kv, divided as follows: low-pressure gas-filled cable systems 10 kv to 40 kv, operating at gas pressures from 10 to 15 pounds per square inch; medium-pressure systems 40 kv to 69 kv, operating at gas pressures from 24 to 40 pounds per square inch; high-pressure systems 69 kv to 138 kv, operating at gas pressures from 150 to 200 pounds per square inch."
"The increased demand for aluminum, magnesium, chlorine, copper, and zinc for war purposes has made the electrolytic processes for these materials the largest consumers of electric energy in this country. The most frequently encountered d-c and voltage requirements of these four principal electrolytic processes are discussed. An illustrative current-time and voltage-time characteristic curve for starting a chlorine cell line is shown, and the requirements that such characteristics impose on the electric equipment are discussed. The current- voltage characteristics of aluminum, magnesium, chlorine, and zinc cell lines are also shown. A typical installation of conversion equipment for an electrolytic process plant is given, and the reasons for selecting the particular types of electric equipment and its physical and electrical arrangement are discussed. As part of this discussion, there are included characteristic curves of rectifiers showing the effect of ignition control on power factor for 6-, 12-, and 36-phase combinations. A table giving a ``rule-of- thumb'' relationship between the number of phases and kilowatt limits which have been found in practice to provide operation reasonably free from telephone interference is included. There is also given a tabulation of phase shifter combinations, by means of which multiphase operation can be obtained with various combinations of standard six- phase rectifier transformers."
"The rate of mechanical deterioration of cellulose insulation is dependent on the conditions of its use. Those factors of major importance are the temperature applied and the presence of oxygen and moisture. Moisture even in small amounts greatly affects the mechanical stability of the cellulose insulation. In general, the mechanical life of the insulation is reduced by half for each doubling in water content. Deterioration promoted by oxidation is most effective at temperatures below 120 degrees centigrade and is accelerated by the presence of moisture. The rate of deterioration for substantially dry insulation at temperatures above 120 degrees centigrade is dependent upon its previous history. Intermittent exposure to high temperature effects are additive. The ``eight-degree-centigrade rule,'' indicative that the rate of mechanical deterioration is doubled for each eight-degree-centigrade increase from a base temperature of 120 degrees centigrade or higher, applies most closely for practical use when the insulation under study has lost more than 50 per cent of its tensile strength."
"The fundamental steady-state theory of the amplidyne generator is presented in this paper together with methods for calculating the characteristics of the generator from the machine constants. Experimental data obtained on a test machine are compared with calculated, results to show the accuracy of the methods and to substantiate the theory. The effects of such factors as brush losses, commutation, and overcompensation and undercompensation on the operation of the generator are explained. Overcompensated and undercompensated machines are treated from the standpoint of both steady-state operation and electrical stability. Methods are given for the determination of the machine constants from open-circuit and short-circuit tests performed on the machine. This method offers the advantage that the machine constants so determined apply for actual conditions of operation and need not be modified to include the effects of such factors as brush and commutation losses, eddy currents, and hysteresis."
"This paper presents a discussion and analysis of short circuits for low-voltage distribution systems. Many distribution systems are supplied from transformers connected in delta on the low-voltage side with the mid-tap of one secondary winding, or with one corner of the delta, connected to ground. As a result, short circuits on these systems often involve failure to ground, and an accurate analysis for these faults is of value. An original analysis of power-leg-to-ground and light-leg-to-ground short circuits is presented together with formulas for line-to-line and three-phase faults. A study of short circuits on the secondary circuits of single-phase transformers supplied from three-phase systems is also included, thereby giving a comprehensive treatment of includes a discussion of the effects of resistance in limiting short-circuit currents and the voltage rise of the secondary neutral above ground potential caused by transformer failure and resistance to ground."
"There are two generally recognized methods of measuring demand. The block-interval type has been used extensively where great accuracy is desirable, a simple explanation necessary, and a quick testing method essential, but the ``logarithmic'' type has received increased attention in recent years, and a greater dissemination of knowledge of its characteristics is desirable. A mathematical expression for ``logarithmic'' average is given which can apply to a variable load as well as to a uniform load. It is shown that a meter with a simple exponential time-deflection characteristic will indicate this ``logarithmic'' average, but that meters with characteristics obtainable in present commercial thermal meters will theoretically differ from it except when used with certain loads. The accuracy of commercial meters has increased in recent years. So besides indicating that the various types of characteristics available in commercial meters have apparently been satisfactory on normally encountered loads, it is shown that sturdiness and high torques are desirable features to sustain these accuracies. The internally heated thermal watt-demand principle is discussed, and the conclusion is reached that by its use high torque can be obtained using the time tested bimental type of meter. In addition, the rapid diffusion of heat in the bimetal where it is generated theoretically allows shorter ``heat-up'' time when the meter is being tested and results in a time-deflection characteristic much closer to the ideal simple exponential."
"The $64,000,000 subway project now being completed will provide long- needed rapid-transit terminal facilities in the Chicago downtown district. The State Street subway will be completely equipped and in operation early in 1943 and will constitute a major contribution to the problem of handling additional traffic resulting from a decrease in the use of passenger automobiles. This first subway route is five miles long and with fixed equipment will cost almost $34,000,000. The subways were built with track sections in tunnel-at low level. Platforms 500 feet long are provided at stations, except in the congested area where there is a continuous island platform 3,300 feet in length with access provided by mezzanine stations in each block. All fixed equipment is being installed by the city. Despite the delay in securing equipment because of present scarcity of critical materials, the entire project will be built and equipped in a period of four years. This high-speed construction program required expeditious planning of locations for all electric facilities. Power will be 600 volts direct-current. The 144-pound contact rail will be energized by existing substations and energy delivered by conventional positive and negative feeders, with contact rails reinforced with parallel feeders. Adequate sectionalization of the entire system is provided largely by automatic operation. Centralized supervisory control of the all-relay type includes most modern accessories, such as an illuminated diagram board and remote-control dispatching equipment. Train movements will be controlled throughout by a modern signal and electropneumatic interlocking system with automatic stops."
"Mercury-arc power rectifiers have been used increasingly to supply power to d-c utilization systems in the United States since the early twenties. War requirements, because they have multiplied the demand for aluminum, magnesium, chlorine, zinc, and copper, all of which utilize d-c current in their reduction, have tremendously increased d-c power consumption. It is estimated that 12½ per cent of the kilowatt-hours generated in 1941 were consumed in such electrochemical processes. Since the mercury-arc rectifier is now the almost universally accepted form of conversion apparatus for this purpose, the attention of many more engineers has recently been focused on it. Many advantages of the modern rectifier have led to its wide acceptance, but it is not within the scope of this paper to deal with these. One persistent factor in connection with the application of rectifiers which has claimed much attention is the phenomenon of arc-back. Various methods of attack have been employed successfully. High-speed anode switching appears to be the most satisfactory way to handle this problem. Such a solution is widely used in the aluminum industry.1 Part I of this paper includes an analysis of the arc-back problem and various means of protection from its effects. Reasons why high-speed anode switching is an improved type of arc-back protection are set forth. Part II of this paper describes this multipole high-speed air circuit breaker. The requirements which the breaker must meet are discussed, and the electrical and mechanical features described. Performance of the breaker was checked in field tests."
"The conditions which a valid postulated electric-energy flow must satisfy are given and are stated to be insufficient for its unique determination. The commonly used Vi energy-flow postulate is shown by examples to be not generally valid, but by adding a simple term it can be made equally valid with other valid energy-flow postulates. Various examples are given of the application of this corrected energy-flow postulate. On power systems the engineer commonly limits his use of the uncorrected Vi postulate to applications where the correcting term should have a negligible net effect. Various examples of such use are discussed."
"Some conditions which have to be met with in protecting transformers by the usual current-differential method produce special problems. Those involving the protection of interconnected wye or zigzag transformers and those involving Scott-connected transformers are dealt with at some length. There is also a discussion of tolerances in the selection of current transformers and the factors to be considered in the selection of relays for the purpose."
"With the birth of the transformer and the first distribution of alternating currents, wave form assumed interest, and methods were developed for its determination, chiefly the point-by-point method of instantaneous contact, mechanical oscillograph, cathode-ray oscillograph, and the oscilloscope with stabilized time axis. The point-by-point method, by which were made the first major contributions, is now practically superseded by oscillograph and oscilloscope, each finding increasing use in its field. With the determination of wave form accomplished, demand arose for its standardization corresponding to expanding applications. No single standard being suited to all applications, different standards have been developed in different fields, as in power, communication, and insulation. While it is desirable that standards, once set up, remain fairly stable, they should be subject to review and occasional change to keep in step with technological Advances. Minor revision in communication is in progress. Although standards in other fields do not appear ideal, no immediate revision is recommended. Forty references are appended."
"The air-blast high-voltage circuit breaker has been developed and applied on high-voltage systems of 150 and 240 kv. Both single-phase and three-phase automatic high-speed reclosing can be carried out with this new type of circuit breaker. The principles of design and operation are explained and the construction of two high-voltage air-blast circuit breakers rated at 150 kv and 220 kv, installed in Canadian power-distribution plants, is described and supplemented by a discussion of performance tests and oscillograms. The construction of an air-blast circuit breaker with axial blast, designed for extremely high voltage and high interrupting capacity, is explained, and results of various tests discussed."
"This paper describes the 120-kv oil-filled cable system of the Montreal Light, Heat, and Power Consolidated, installed stalled during 1941 and in present operation as a link in a large interconnection scheme. The paper describes the functions of the various sections of the system and the reasons for the choice of this method of effecting the interconnection. The steps required in designing the cable system are outlined and the general principles governing each such step discussed. A short section deals with manufacture followed by a section covering the organization required for installation and the methods followed. The final section deals with operating practice, especially the basis of loading."
"The widespread and general use of three-phase automatic service-restoring equipment on low-cost low-revenue distribution lines has created a field for a singlepole service-restoring device having continuously adjustable characteristics for trip current and time delay, and powered by a prestored source of energy. The device described in this paper utilizes a new and unique application for the prestoring of the operating energy and the restoration of the utilized operating energy after transient fault conditions."
"The paper points out that during the period of the war the need for obtaining maximum transformer overload capacity is very great, particularly under rare emergency conditions. From a thermal standpoint, the amount of overload is limited by the hottest spot in the transformer winding. To obtain accurate data 1. On the actual hot-spot temperatures under rated load conditions 2. On the increase of the hot spot with load under both ultimate moderate overload and heavy short-time overload conditions approximately 50 heat runs were made on several power transformers of different ratings, representing a wide variety of design conditions. The results of the tests are given in the paper. The subject of how heavy overloads affect the life of transformers, is discussed and temperature limits somewhat higher than those given in the American Standards, Guides for Operation of Transformers, are suggested. Calculàted short-time overloads are given to show the effect of transformer characteristics on overload values."
"Since the author's 1939 paper,1 further data have been obtained regarding the loading of underground power systems having impregnated-paper-insulated lead-covered underground cable. The results of the studies may be summarized as follows: 1. The factors affecting the setting of maximum safe conductor temperatures are so numerous that no fixed value (or values) can be assumed as applicable to all installations of a given design and size of cable in this country. 2. For some cables, the present temperature limits for normal day-in and day-out operation may be safely exceeded, especially for wartime conditions. 3. For emergency operation safe temperatures may be even higher than listed in the previous paper, especially for wartime operation. 4. Operation in wartimes at special temperatures will mean in some cases substantial shortening of the life of underground circuits and an accompanying increase in service interruptions. 5. Wartime increases in usual maximum daily loading and in load factors may cause large increases in duct and copper temperatures, even if past current ratings are maintained. These temperatures will sometimes exceed those in the present standards. 6. The safe temperature for emergency operation, particularly for extra-high-voltage cables, may be limited by the joints. Also, for all kinds of cable sufficient room must be provided to avoid mechanical damage of cable or joints in manholes with cable movements incidental to emergency loads. 7."
"Very little material dealing with the factors (such as network dissymmetries) which lead to incorrect operation of directional relays has appeared in the technical literature. Practical experience has been the guide as to the relative merits of the 12 possible connections which utilize either line-to-neutral or line-to-line voltages and line currents or the differences of line currents to actuate the relay elements. In this article a graphical method for analyzing directional-relay operation is developed, utilizing circle diagrams and symmetrical components, and the method is applied to general cases to ascertain the effects of network dissymmetries. Since the relay volt-ampere expressions in terms of symmetrical components are too complicated to show the relative merits of the 12 connections, the expressions also are given in terms of the modified symmetrical components introduced by Edith Clarke and now widely used in network-analyzer studies of unbalanced faults. Circle diagrams based upon these modified components show conclusively that the ordinary 90-degree, 30-degree, and 60-degree connections are more free from disturbing influences than the other nine and therefore give more reliable operation in most practical applications of directional relays. The particular connection which will be most reliable at any given location can be determined by the methods given here when the constants of the power network are known."
"This paper presents the results of an analytical and experimental investigation of the use of series capacitors to increase the permissible loadings of long high-voltage a-c transmission lines. Because of limitations imposed by synchronous stability and reactive kilovolt-ampere requirements, conventional lines, when extended to the higher voltages and greater lengths, cannot be loaded to values of power sufficiently high to develop maximum over-all economy. It is shown that, when suitably applied, series capacitors will make possible the desired optimum loadings and will very materially reduce transmission costs. The theoretical possibilities of using series capacitors to compensate the excessive inductive reactance of long lines have received consideration for many years. Practical series capacitors require protective equipment, but shunting of the capacitors in the earlier schemes resulted in a decrease instead of an increase in the transientstability limits. The authors propose series capacitors of the limited-voltage type in combination with auxiliary equipment which not only protects the insulation but quickly restores the capacitors to the circuit after the faulted conductors are isolated, thus preventing a decrease in system power limit at the time of need. The application requirements of necessary apparatus are also briefly outlined. Results of analytical studies and miniature-system tests in connection with a typical application of series capacitors to one of the major lines of a typical transmission system are included. This work deals with relative transmission costs, transient stability, spontaneous hunting, and the subsynchronous operation in the induction starting of machines."
"Presents bibliography of literature on relay technology."
"Presents bibliography of literature on relay technology."
"This bibliography of the automatic station was prepared by the AlEE committee on automatic stations and supplements the earlier bibliographies on the subject. The material is subdivided into eight sections. In each section the entries are numbered consecutively and listed alphabetically by years, the first significant word of the title determining the alphabetical position. This bibliography was published in pamphlet form by the AIEE during 1942. References to 1930 and 1931 in this bibliography are supplementary to those appearing in AIEE Transactions. volume 50, 1931, pages 1485-7."
"A simplified procedure for the calculation of short-circuit currents was presented in an earlier report.1 This procedure, outlined in this article, has been given trial use for over a year and has been found to be generally satisfactory for the purpose intended. Accordingly, it is now recommended for general use by the industry as a simplified method of approximating the magnitude of fault currents."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"``Maximum demand'' has become an increasingly important item in rates for the sale of electric service since the appearance of Doctor John Hopkinson's notable paper, ``Cost of Electricity Supply,'' in the year 1892-nearly 50 years ago. The writer estimates that the demand-measuring equipment which is now being used by the public utilities of the United States has a value of the order of $100,000,-000. This is an index of its present importance. The object of the present paper is to describe in detail the thermal-storage method of measuring the maximum demand of a user of electric service. A comparison is made between this method, which at each instant of time indicates the logarithmic average load over some nominal time interval, and the commonly used ``block-interval'' method, which indicates the arithmetic average load over the same time interval. Also, the effect of using a modified design of thermal-demand meters is discussed. The writer has contributed a number of previous papers dealing with this same general subject, reference to which will be found at end of paper."
"A carrier-current system providing a relatively large number of channels is in service on a high-voltage power line. The facilities provide: 1. Transmission of signals both ways for the opening of the circuit breakers at the remote end by the operation of relays at the near end. 2. Two-way telephone service between any extension telephone at the remote generating station and any telephone connecting to the main telephone switchboard in the central office building. 3. Two-way telemetering (station generation one way and system total generation the other way). 4. Transmission from the system operator's office to the station of automatically generated load-control signals used to increase or decrease automatically the station generation. 5. Two channels in each direction for future requirements. This paper describes the methods employed to obtain these channels over a single power line, including the special precautions taken with the high-speed transferred trip signals to prevent faulty tripping of the line due to external disturbances which might generate carrier-current tripping pulses."
"This paper discusses quantitatively the effect of indiscriminate (random phase-angle) switching in the primary of a resistance welder. The current and power transients occurring because of ``off-angle'' switching are investigated through oscillographic records of transients in loads built up to simulate actual welder-head loads as nearly as possible. In the switching of loads of either high or low power factor and those with or without iron at high-flux densities, the power transients were found to be damped to unimportant values within the time of a very few cycles after the instant of switching. In spot and projection welding, the first few cycles may be extremely important, however, determining the quality of weld even though the total time of the weld period is much greater. This investigation is limited to 60-cycle frequency and to welding periods of two cycles or more."
"This paper reviews the underground distribution system, suggests methods to conserve existing facilities and ways of utilizing latent capacity, and summarizes some of the known information available. Additional information is given on ductbank load limitations and on time-temperature factors for cable and duct."
"Requirements of war will impose unprecedented demands upon many distribution substations. Equipment will be overloaded before extensions can be built, if at all. New construction must be simplified to the bare essentials. Substitute materials must be used. Protection and maintenance must be intensified and operating personnel must be educated to new responsibilities and skills. These are discussed and means are suggested to meet these needs."
"An overhead electrical system makes use of large quantities of materials which are also very vital to the nation's wartime program. This paper seeks to point out the most practical ways of conserving these vital materials, thereby releasing them in greater quantities for use in wartime production. In general, this can best be accomplished by keeping to a minimum the quantities used to make the line extensions and system reinforcements which will be required to supply electric service to the new industries and military establishments, and to the increased housing facilities which must accompany them. A number of effective tools are available which may be utilized to reduce the quantities of conductor material required to give satisfactory service. There are also possibilities of rearrangement of existing facilities so as to use them more effectively."
"A more accurate method than previously used for calculating temperature rises in transformers has been derived, and applied both to steady and transient conditions. This latter application, along with the recognition that newer transformers have both lower gradients and better oil protection, give the possibility of recommending much higher emergency loads than previously given to such apparatus."
"Operating the series motors of a street railway car as series generators is a convenient way of providing electric braking, but, since thle motors are self-excited while braking, they are very sensitive to changing speed and load conditions. This is particularly true of modern small highspeed motors which operate at relatively low-flux densities. Control systems are available and in use, however, which provide a smooth, responsive and flexible electric brake which has replaced the air brake as the pricipal means of braking modern cars in street railway service. The use of such a control system with electric braking has been extended to multiple-unit rapid-transit cars by adapting the equipment of the PCC car to conform to the requirements of remote control without sacrifice in safety or reliability, and by providing special features in recognition of the distinctive operating conditions encountered in rapid-transit service."
"In many cases it is of great importance to study phenomena which do not occur periodically. Such phenomena, called transients, arise, for example, at the time a short circuit appears in a power line, during the discharge of the condenser of a spot- welding machine, during the starting of electric machinery, and on very many other occasions. Most of the instruments available thus far for investigation of transients employ the method of film recording, which has the disadvantage of requiring a developing process. A new transient recorder has been developed, employing magnetic-tape recording as a means of preserving the record of a transient and steadily repeating this record on the screen of an oscilloscope. This method has the advantage that is requires no processing and that the same magnetic carrier can be used continuously without loss of material."
"The expansion of trolley coach operation to include 50 transit systems in the United States and Canada has been greatly helped by the progress made in the development of overhead distribution materials. Beginning with the installation of the first transit-type trolley coaches in Salt Lake City in 1928, the inadequacy and limitations of the earlier designs of equipment were recognized. Since 1928 it has been necessary to add many new devices and redesign many old devices to provide better reliability and permit of greater flexibility of operation. The development of trolley-coach overhead materials has been concentrated mainly on 1. Current collection 2. Hangers and insulation 3. Curve materials 4. Turnouts and crossovers The improved current collection equipment incorporating the carbon-insert shoe has been responsible for the reduction of wear on fittings and trolley wire. The carbon-insert shoe has also been responsible for the complete elimination of trolley-wire lubrication formerly required for the all-metallic shoe collector. Improvements in insulated hangers have resulted in a more dependable distribution system and have been responsible for the elimination of considerable secondary insulation formerly inserted in the supporting span wire between positive and negative trolley wires."
"Results are given of an investigation of the electric strength of nitrogen, of dichlorodifluoromethane (Freon F-12), and of mixtures of these gases. Sparking voltages are presented as measured between spherical electrodes of brass and aluminum and between pointed electrodes of brass, at various spacings, and in gas at pressures ranging from one to several atmospheres. All measurements are for 60-cycle applied voltage. Dichlorodifluoromethane is found to withstand much higher voltages than either air or nitrogen; this advantage is more marked between points than between spheres, which suggests its use in certain types of insulation applications. A small percentage of dichlorodifluoromethane gas in nitrogen produces an anomalously large rise in the electric strength of the gas, indicating practical advantages of such mixtures."
"It appears that the greatest improvement in over-all system frequency and tie-line regulation will be brought about by further improvement in the composite regulation of the system governing and by more widespread and co-operative application of supplementary control equipments which are already developed."
"The problem created by the decline in transit revenues during the depression led the Pittsburgh Railways Company to initiate a long-range service-betterment program. The most important phase of the plan was the use of modern street cars, as developed by the Presidents' Conference Committee, to replace the earlier types of rolling stock on the property. With 301 of these PCC cars in service, and 100 additional units scheduled for early delivery, sufficient data are available to show exceptionally favorable operating results. Actual experience in service has demonstrated that car maintenance comes down 28 per cent, track and roadway maintenance drops 21 per cent, accidents decrease 25 per cent, the number of cars required for specific schedules is reduced 10 per cent, and revenues increase 8 per cent. This favorable outcome has caused continued expansion in the use of such equipment and established a superior urban-transit service"
"The single-phase electric locomotive is thought of quite generally as a piece of motive power for heavy traction service. To an electrical engineer, however, it consists fundamentally of electric motors geared to wheels with means for controlling the applied voltage to handle a variable load at varying speeds. From this point of view it is interesting to consider the protective features of the motors and their associated electrical apparatus to develop devices and methods which are necessary to guard against the hazards common to the operation of all electrical devices and those special to an electric locomoive. This paper will consider these features as they apply to the electric locomotives operating on the Pennsylvania Railroad."
"Modern electrical equipment for industrial Diesel-electric locomotives is widely different in many respects from that used five or six years ago. New and improved high-temperature insulating materials and modern synthetic varnishes have been developed and are used extensively today. Also new and improved methods of using these and the older materials have been developed. These, together with new design constants, have made possible a reduction in weight per horsepower transmitted with an improvement in the quality of the product. The Diesel engine and generator are close-coupled and mounted as a unit, thus assuring proper alignment and, at the same time, reducing the space required for mounting on the locomotive. A new and improved method of generator excitation has been developed which assures positive control of the engine speed and power. This provides a very flexible transmission of power from the prime mover to the rail. The modern traction motor has a cylindrical instead of a rectangular frame. It is a multipole instead of the conventional fourpole design. It is mounted integral with a double-reduction gear unit which is completely enclosed in an oiltight gear case. All bearings on the motor armature shaft and in the gear case are antifriction except those on the axle, which are sleeve bearings. All bearings in the gear unit are oil-lubricated with the same oil that lubricates the gearing. Both the high and low speed pinions are straddle-mounted to insure proper alignment of the gearing at all times."
"A scheme of bus protection offering advantages in simplicity, speed, and size uses linear couplers (air-core mutual reactances) in place of current transformers. This solves the troublesome problem of saturation and provides a linear relationship between secondary voltage and primary current. The coupler secondaries for a given bus are connected in a series loop with the relay. When the currents entering and leaving the bus are equal, the net induced voltage in the relay loop is zero. For a fault on the bus, however, the net induced voltage, proportional to the fault current, operates the relay. The problems are: 1. To utilize effectively the smaller available energy. 2. To build couplers of sufficiently equal mutual reactance and unaffected by stray fields. A toroidal coil solved the latter problem. Through tests have shown that the performance is strictly linear with respect to primary currnet, practically unaffected by the primary d-c transient, and thus can be calculated accurately and simply."
"Increased system kilowatt capacity may be realized by the reduction of generator kilovar requirements and the provision of reactive capacity sources at other points in the system. The factors to be considered in the choice of various reactive sources are discussed. Benefits to be realized from the various reactive sources are described. The paper is based upon system plan studies of a large eastern utility."
"Several large wind-tunnel drives recently built have involved a system of speed control which has seldom been used commercially, and a number of new problems had to be solved. The system consists of a wound-rotor induction motor whose slip rings are connected to a synchronous motor driving a variable-speed d-c generator which feeds a constant-speed d-c-a-c set putting the major part of the secondary power back into the line. This drive is found to be very efficient and particularly suited to very large fan or pump drives where a wide range of speed is required. The problems of steady-state and dynamic stability are discussed and some novel methods of analysis given."
"The features of a new protective relay scheme are described. The scheme is designed to remove underexcited a-c generators from the system, upon occurrence of undervoltage, before loss of synchronism occurs. The relay development and its operating characteristics are described, Calculations required to determine generator behavior after loss of field are also presented to make the application of this scheme easily applied to generators on any system."
"Data have been obtained during the past three years on the magnitude and wave shape of lightning currents discharged by arresters in service on several solidly grounded neutral circuits of the American Gas and Electric Company system. Correlated measurements have been obtained with the cathode-ray oscillograph, the fulchronograph, and the surge-front recorder. The maximum arrester-phase leg current recorded in this investigation was 9,600 amperes with 70 per cent of the currents less than 1,000 amperes. The wave fronts of the low-magnitude currents were, in general, abrupt. For crest magnitudes of over 1,000 amperes they ranged from two to over 25 microseconds to crest. The maximum rate of rise recorded was 2,500 amperes per microsecond. The components in all discharges were of relatively short duration, with times to half value averaging 25 microseconds and with no measurable durations in excess of 500 microseconds. Of the 18 arrester-phase legs studied, all but one discharged at least once during the investigation. Nineteen of the 21 separate records of discharges in three-phase arrester banks had currents which, if arresters had not been installed, would have produced voltages in excess of the standard basic impulse level for the voltage class of the apparatus involved, so that failure of unprotected equipment might have occurred."
"The intensive manufacturing activity accompanying the present defense program has stimulated interest in industrial electric power distribution. The ultimate objective is one of effectively satisfying electric power requirements with reasonable first cost consistent with a fair standard of safety and service reliability. This paper presents the fundamental aspects of industrial power distribution, with particular reference to low-voltage power supply to distributed electrical machinery, and compares various basic system designs, including large concentrated substations and distributed load-center substations with radial and secondary network modifications, as to safety, service reliability, simplicity, and so on, relative to estimated installed cost. The comparative analysis comprehends the complete electrical system between high-voltage supply bus and utilization terminal of low-voltage feeders. The ideal size of unit substation as influenced by operating voltage and load density is covered. Principles of system design here disclosed are applicable not only to new plant construction but to expansion or modernization of existing plants as well."
"A general method is given to establish equivalent circuits for the determination of the hunting characteristics- such as damping and synchronizing torques-of standard types of electrical machines. The method is illustrated by setting up steady-state and hunting equivalent circuits for the salient-pole synchronous machine having amortisseur windings and for the doubly fed single-phase Selsyn with unbalanced windings, special cases of which are the capacitor motor and doubly fed polyphase motor. A companion paper, ``The Doubly Fed Machine,'' contains a detailed study of the characteristics of one of the equivalent circuits as measured on the a-c network analyzer."
"By reducing to the same parameter with saturation the voltage-current equations for stator, rotor, and magnetic circuits of synchronous machines, a differential equation in time for the main-pole flux and the induced electromotive force is derived, a relation easy to evaluate graphically. The difference of current between the magnetic characteristic of the machine and the electric characteristic of the stator circuit determines the rate of change of the electromotive force from which all the other slow-transient magnitudes can be derived. For constant excitation voltage, a closed solution for the variation of flux and electromotive force is given, valid for any sudden change of load, including short-circuit current formation or capacitive superexcitation. The combined effect of damper circuits and rotor leakage causes a superposed rapid-transient variation manifested by an additional current peak at sudden short circuits and by a rapid initial voltage rise at sudden interruptions of the circuit. The method of solution is in principle independent of the distribution of the saturation on rotor and stator, as well as of the character of loading of the machine, be it by constant or variable impedance, by symmetrical or unbalanced currents, by active or reactive power. The common subdivision into transient and sub-transient phenomena is not identical with the separation into slowand rapid-transient effects, the physical significance of which is derived in this paper."
"This paper describes a d-c telemeter which is particularly adapted for transmitting to the instrument board indications of pressure, temperature, liquid level and of the position of the various controlling members of the airplane. The description comprises the principle, variations, characteristics, and application of this telemetering system. Although the applications described are primarily in connection with aircraft, the versatile nature of this device makes it suitable for many other applications. The large number of indications which must be transmitted accurately to the instrument board of an airplane has created a demand for a telemetering system of small size and light weight. For many years the a-c Selsyn telemetering system has given excellent service in marine applications. Variations of this system are used successfully on aircraft. A search for a simpler and lighter system which will operate on direct current has led to the development of the d-c Selsyn telemetering system."
"In the electrical system on aircraft, the voltage regulator and reverse-current cutout are key pieces of equipment which, in addition to having requirements of utmost dependability, must be small, light in weight, and of a design adaptable to manufacture on a quantity production basis. The conception and simplification of the prime requirements and their attainment by careful analytical designing is described in this paper in such a way as to show not only the steps in design but also the pertinent application features."
"The use of high-capacity d-c generators on aircraft has required the development of regulators with rapid response, high accuracy, and with features for parallel operation of variable speed machines. The fundamental requirements of light weight, ability to withstand shock and vibration, and to give low radio interference were vital factors considered in the development. A device incorporating these features. is described and analyzed. Results of tests on these equipments have shown that regulators with these features are vital to the operation of the electrical loads of modern planes, both the military and commerical types. The tests show that the requirements have been met with devices suited to high production methods."
"A discussion of a magnetic-dragtachometer equipment designed principally for aircraft use. The principle of operation makes possible an indicator which may be read very accurately under extreme conditions of aircraft use and at the same time may be easily adjusted and maintained. Because of the extreme reading accuracy obtainable, low inherent temperature errors and good compensation are essential. A method of obtaining these features is presented."
"This paper describes short approximate methods for the solution of several types of intangible problems which require load-curve analyses. Laborious effort may be expended in compiling results from a group of curves without greater precision than is believed possible to obtain from the use of one or a few synthetic curves which combine the characteristics under investigation, and permit the determination of such items as peak loads, losses, and required capacities of equipment."
"This paper discusses those fundamentals of acoustics which are important in attacking practical problems in noise reductoin. A description is given of the instruments suitable for measuring the physical quantities involved. The train problem is analyzed, and data taken by the author on a relatively quiet type of coach are presented. The various methods of noise control which may be applied to a coach are discussed, and data are presented indicating the possibilities of each method."
"Selenium rectifiers are dry-plate rectifiers of the electronic type. The history of dry rectifiers hegan some 30 years ago with the advent of the copper-sulphide rectifier. In the early 20' s, the copper-oxide type came into common use, and during the past three years, selenium rectifiers have found wide application in American industry. Fundamentally, this third and latest type of rectifier is a continental development and has been manufactured in Europe within the International Telephone and Telegraph group of companies during most of the 1930's. Sufficient experience was gained in the technique of manufacture, as well as in methods of design and in selection of applications, to warrant engineering statements as to their general usefulness and importance to industry. The purpose of this paper is to outline general principles of design of stacks, one or more of which make a rectifying unit. Starting with the availability of selenium plates or discs of various types, the engineer is confronted with the problem of 1. Selecting the proper size of plate to provide the required d-c output. 2. Computing the required a-c voltage to be impressed on the rectifier stacks to give the necessary d-c output. 3. Analyzing various factors such as type of load, nature of service, and cost of selected rectifier. The paper includes dynamic and other characteristics of the principal sizes of selenium rectifier plates as applied to the design of single-phase, three-phase, full-wave, and half-wave rectifier units, and all variety of loading."
"Temperature-aging data are presented on class-A-insulated fractional-horsepower motor stators, determined at 200, 160, and 135 degrees centigrade. Of particular interest is the relative aging time to failure at the different temperatures and the resultant temperature-aging curve. This curve shows a slope of 10 to 15 degrees centigrade increase in temperature to halve the aging time to failure in the temperature range covered, 135 to 200 degrees centigrade."
"In the preceding papers1 of this series a method was described for determining the circle diagram and predicting the characteristics for the brush-shifting motor as it is used when the brushes are shifted to control speed. This paper extends the earlier work to show how the motor can be used to correct power factor. The range and limitations for this condition of operation are revealed from the circle diagram of the motor which has been developed and verified experimentally. Characteristics of the motor when used in this manner are presented."
"The preceding papers of this series presented an analysis of the brush-shifting a-c motor. Parts I and II dealt with the case when the voltage introduced into the stator coils from the commutator was collinear with the voltage induced in the stator coils by slip. Part III dealt with the case when the voltage introduced into the stator coils from the commutator was in quadrature with the induced voltage. This paper extends the earlier analysis to include all the possible phase positions of the voltage introduced into the stator coils from the commutator. Under these conditions power factor and speed are controlled simultaneously. Methods for constructing the circle diagram for these conditions are given, and the characteristics of the motor predicted from the circle diagram are compared with the characteristics obtained by laboratory tests."
"Coaxial cables insulated with solid dielectric are used for transmitting electric energy over wide ranges of frequency. During the development of such cables it was important to be able to predict the characteristics of finished cable by calculations based upon the known dimensions and physical properties of the conductors and the insulation. Many comparatively simple formulas were known to be valid at high frequency, but their applicability at lower frequencies was questioned. In the first part of this paper we have presented: 1. The general relations which hold under all conditions of operation. 2. The conditions under which ``skin-effect'' tables offer a convenient method for obtaining values of resistance and inductance, as well as the conditions under which relatively simple equations for these quantities are sufficiently accurate. 3. The conditions under which the complete expression for attenuation may be considerably simplified to the form generally used in high frequency practice. In the second part of the paper we have presented formulas and graphs for the ratio of terminal voltages as a function of the phase angle of the line for several types of load for both dissipationless and dissipative lines. These relations are helpful in understanding observed voltage variations with frequency caused by reflections, particularly on short lengths of line. In the third part of the paper a derivation is indicated leading to a general equation for the efficiency of transmission."
"The paper summarizes some 15 years' experience with the high-side fusing of 11-, 22-, and some 66-kv transformer banks. The original purpose of fusing has through this experience been expanded to cover functions that are deemed desirable, and the authors feel that their approach to the specific protection field served by fuses has resulted in satisfactory protection at minimum cost. The results of some faults occurring in fused and unfused banks are described briefly, and the various factors taken into consideration in selecting the proper fuse to use are discussed. The conclusions drawn are that fuses, when applicable, are a satisfactory economical means of obtaining reasonable coverage for faults in and beyond transformer banks."
"The extension of the conventional network system to industrial plants has established requirements for a higher-voltage limiter. The network system has been adopted as a standard by many utilities for 120-208-volt distribution, whereas industrial-plant distribution is usually at higher voltages up to 600 volts due to the predominance of power load. The requirements of a limiter for this service are more severe, due to the proximity of operating personnel and increased interrupting duty associated with higher voltages and shorter cable runs. A new totally enclosed limiter has been developed for this application. This limiter embodies new principles of operation and will interrupt fault currents in excess of 50,000 amperes at 600 volts without perceptible noise or visible demonstration."
"1. Thorough testing of lightning arresters requires a wide variety of impulse-current waves. 2. The strictly mathematical calculation of circuit constants to produce such waves is limited to the few cases where the circuit resistance is constant. 3. Valve-type lightning arresters have a resistance that is intentionally a function of voltage or current and the determination of the constants of circuits containing valve elements must be done experimentally. 4. Impulse-current waves of the same shape but various durations and magnitudes have circuit constants where RT/√4L/C is fixed. 5. Once the circuit constants are determined for a particular wave, the constants for similar waves of other magnitudes and durations are easily calculated. 6. The curves of Figure 5 facilitate such calculations for the wide range of wave shapes shown in Figure 4. 7. The testing of various types and ratings of arresters with a number of different waves, requires extremely flexible impulse-generator circuits. 8. Ordinarily the impulse-generator capacitance is the most difficult circuit constant to adjust, but four special impulse generators are described having capacitance values easily adjustable over a wide range. Several years of experience with these generators, and the previously mentioned calculating methods, show that constants for any desired wave, within the capabilities of the equipment, can be computed and set up easily and quickly."
"The above theory suggests a method of defining the intermittent rating of an ignitron tube through the use of a so-called time constant. This method results in a smooth transition from intermittent to continuous duty ratings. It is possible to adapt the time-constant concept to the calculation of permissible ratings for more complicated duty cycles than are considered in the present paper. The authors hope to be able, in the future, to check the actual performance of tubes against the above theory, especially at values approaching the continuous current rating."
"Various electrical standards are reviewed from the viewpoint of the selection and interpretation of ambient temperature values. Equivalent aging temperatures for insulation have been calculated from recorded ambient temperature data for several typical outdoor and indoor locations. From these the suitability of ambient values now used for the establishment of temperature rises for rating purposes is discussed. These values seem to be well chosen, but some clarification in meaning and in methods of using them for rating and application purposes is desirable. For apparatus rated on a 40 degrees centigrade ambient basis, appreciable margins in permissible temperature rise exist under many conditions and for many places of application. Permissible increase in loading for certain motors without exceeding conservative hot-spot temperatures are suggested, subject to the limitations imposed by other operating considerations."
"In the search for means for measuring the properties of nataural lightning much can be learned from the evidence left at points struck by lightning. This paper deals principally with such evidence and the process of evaluating the characteristics of the lightning strokes responsible for the evidence. For six years a nickel-plated, 18-inch copper sphere, 878 feet above the ground atop the WSM radiator at Nashville, had been collecting data in the form of holes and pits due to lightning strokes to the sphere. A total of 150 holes of varying sizes were found together with 300 pits. A laboratory setup was made consisting of the high-capacity impulse generator together with a d-c generator so arranged that the known characteristics of lightning with respect to the so-called continuing current could be duplicated. With this equipment holes having the same appearance could be produced in copper sheets, and from the results of the test a calibration curve was produced. At the same time calibration curves were obtained for other metals in addition to copper. From these data an expectancy curve was obtained between coulombs and per cent of holes. The average hole corresponded to 15 coulombs while the maximum size hole corresponded to 240 coulombs. No satisfactory calibration was obtained for the pits, many of which no doubt were the result of high current peaks having a low coulomb content."
"Abnormal currents in distribution transformers due to lightning are analyzed both theoretically and from field experiences. Under certain conditions of direct stroke transferred through the arrester to the neutral of the secondary winding, excessive currents may wreck the secondary windings by electromagnetic forces. Long-duration surges, or shorter repeated surges, saturate the transformer cores producing greatly increased surge currents in the primary windings which influence fuse failures. The saturation of the cores by unidirectional lightning surges also brings about increased power-frequency magnetizing currents influencing sectionalizingfuse and circuit-breaker operations."
"Electronic devices are used extensively for switching, relaying, welding, and similar service resulting in intermittent loads. In the paper methods for assigning standard ratings suitable for such intermittent loads are investigated, both for singleanode tubes and tube circuit combinations. Vapor-filled tubes with oxide-coated filaments are treated somewhat in detail in order to develop the basic considerations. Other types of tubes, such as the pool-type and cold-cathode, are only briefly discussed. A method of rating which seems generally applicable is proposed, with the suggestion that its suitability for the great variety of conditions encountered be further investigated."
"Several circuits are available for excitation of ignitron rectifiers. Static magnetic-impulse circuits are used for most applications. Several such circuits are discussed in some detail. Ignitor requirements are given, and circuit requirements affecting the choice of excitation circuits are indicated. While ignitor failures are rare, they should be detected promptly to utilize all apparatus to the best advantage. Two conditions may arise 1. When two anodes operate in parallel from a single transformer winding. 2. When a single anode is connected to each transformer winding. Means for detecting ignitor misfiring are described for both conditions."
"The versatility of the carbon arc as a source of both visible and invisible radiation is shown to be due, in part, to the three basic types of operation to which it is adapted and also to the fact that the character of its energy emission can be modified by changes in core composition. It is used in its various forms for many photochemical and irradiation processes, some of which require specific bands of ultraviolet radiation or close reproduction of the effects of natural sunlight. The carbon arc is preferred in other instances, because the optical requirements of the application necessitate a light source of small area and extreme brilliancy. Several industrial and commercial uses are cited together with the characteristics which give preference to the carbon arc as a source of radiation."
"A new type of d-c instrument is described in this paper. It comprises a diametrically magnetized cylindrical moving- magnet element, a hollow copper damping cylinder surrounding the moving element, a fixed coil, control magnets having a very high coercive force, and an enclosing magnetic shield made of mumetal. The field of the control magnet and the field of the fixed coil have a relatively large angular displacement. The angular position of the vector sum of these fields varies with the current through the coil, and the moving element follows this vector. The scale distribution is nearly uniform for a 90-degree scale. The characteristics compare favorably in many respects with those of a D'Arsonval instrument."
"Sleet storms, or more properly ice storms, have always presented serious difficulties to the operators of overhead electric conductors of all classes. For more than 25 years some electric-power companies have been using the circulation of electric current to heat the conductors, either to melt off the ice or to prevent it from forming. The technique of such procedure is well-known and will not be dealt with in this paper, other than to present fundamental theoretical data. Electrified railroads operating with overhead contact systems have similar ice storm problems, and, in addition, a number of special problems caused by such ice. These problems are outlined in this paper, and some means which have been used or proposed for their solution are described, Operating experience with one special application to a case of severe exposure to ice storms and high wind velocities is cited. Some of these special railroad problems have not yet been satisfactorily solved."
"The Consolidated Edison Company made a series of tests to determine the cause and extent of system load swings on generators and tie feeders. The results were reported in detail in a previous paper.1 An analysis of these tests indicated ways in which our load dispatching methods could be improved. This paper reports the effect of the changes in the method. Our experience indicates that the operators may reduce tie and generator load swings to negligible values by using frequency to control manual adjustments of generator output, provided that an accurate frequency indication is available at each generating station."
"This paper shows the importance of switching time as an initial condition for the current in a simple nonlinear series circuit with a saturable inductor. It is also shown that initial flux linkages in the inductor have an important effect on the current response during the first few cycles after closing the switch. It is emphasized that all experimental work was done with voltages below the critical ferroresonant voltage."
"1. Methods normally used for pulling cables into ducts can readily be adapted to the installation of compression cable in steel pipe. 2. Conditions in this country make it possible to eliminate the armor which is used on compression cable abroad. 3. By cabling the individual lead-covered and reinforced conductors with a suitable lay, longitudinal expansion becomes of no practical importance, and expansion bends as used abroad can be eliminated. 4. Diaphragm action of the lead sheath when in nitrogen shows indefinite life under simulated operating conditions. 5. Compression cable is well suited for handling loads in the range of 100,000 kva. 6. The experimental installation which has been installed for approximately one year shows no deterioration of the insulation even on the phase with the lead sheath perforated every 25 feet."
"1. Nonleaded high-pressure gas-filled cable can be installed in a steel pipe without the insulation being adversely affected due to atmospheric exposure or mechanical handling. 2. No difficulty was encountered in the installation of 1,500-foot section lengths of cable on the commercial line. Based on the relatively low pulling stresses (7,200 pounds maximum), it appears perfectly feasible to install this type cable in lengths up to 2,000 feet. 3. The use of paper, preimpregnated with viscous compound, prevents migration at normal operating temperatures and allows installation on steep grades or in vertical runs without stop joints or other devices. 4. The satisfactory results on this type of cable are due in part to the development and use of a saturant of high viscosity and of excellent electrical properties. 5. The 60-cycle dielectric strength, both short- and long-time, is equivalent to that of oil-filled cable. 6. The impulse strength is at least the equal of oil-filled cable. 7 Power-factor values are approximately constant over a temperature range of 20 to 100 degrees centigrade. 8. The power factor was not affected even after six months at a temperature of 100 degrees centigrade. 9. The radial power-factor curve is flat even at 80 degrees centigrade, where impurities often cause erratic results. 10. Great uniformity of the insulation is indicated by the fact that on long-time voltage tests there are normally numerous partial failures, in addition to the completed failure. 11."
"New data on the rate of deterioration of cellulose insulation at different temperatures have been obtained. From them a table of time periods and temperatures has been made at which oil-insulated transformers may be operated in order that specific cellulose insulation strengths of approximately 65 per cent of the original value may be maintained. It is expected that this value will be maintained even after operation of a considerable length of time at 105 degrees centigrade."
"In the application of differential relays the need for a supervising relay which will detect the existence of a single-phase-to-ground fault condition to the exclusion of all others has frequently arisen. Heretofore, the only scheme available has been to utilize a relay energized by zero-sequence quantities. Generally, the relay has been energized by a current transformer connected in the station ground. Such a relay, however, will also detect the existence of a two-phase-to-ground fault and only partially solves the problem. The new relay described in this paper derives its operating force from the zero-sequence voltage at the bus and is restrained by the negative-sequence voltage at the bus. The addition of properly proportioned negative-sequence restraint provides the relay with a means of recognizing a single-phase-to-ground fault only. It is applicable on those systems where the zero-sequence impedance of the system exceeds the negative-sequence impedance by a reasonable margin."
"This report has been written to summarize the work of the AIEE current transformer subcommittee and to discuss the considerations which led to the adoption of the material in the revision of section 4, ``Instrument Transformers,'' of the Proposed American Standard for Transformers, C-57. Special attention is given to the principles underlying the establishment of the over- current requirements of current transformers for relaying service and the revision of the method of specifying the accuracy of instrument transformers for metering service. Mention is also made of the reasons for making other changes, such as in the preferred primary current ratings, potential-transformer ratios, and so forth."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Separately mounted shielding systems, such as vertical diverter masts or ground wires, are best for most hazardous buildings, because they produce adequate shielding and sufficient clearances to prevent sparking. Cost of materials and installation are less than with the use of lightning rods, since conductors for the masts and ground wires are smaller, and corrosion-resisting steel wire can be used instead of copper. Location of masts or ground wires, sizes of conductors, necessary clearances, and ground resistances are considered in this article."
"Ultrahigh-frequency, or microwave radiation is being employed more and more in the prosecution of the war, for communication and other specialized purposes. Unlike the power and audio frequencies, transmission in the ultrahigh-frequency region is accomplished best by wave guides, or tubular conductors. In order to make practical use of wave guides, it is necessary to decide upon the shape and size of the guides and upon the mode of transmission to be used. Here transverse-electric and transverse-magnetic modes of transmission in both rectangular and cylindrical wave guides are considered."
"Various methods have been devised for determining power-angle oscillations of synchronous motors during the period of hunting following a change in load. This article describes an electronic circuit for this purpose, in which a beam of light is reflected from a set of equally spaced mirrors clamped around the motor shaft or coupling to a photoelectric cell; the light Sashes reaching the photoelectric cell are amplified and impressed on the plates of a cathode-ray oscilloscope in such a way that the resulting beam pattern on the oscilloscope screen shows the power-angle oscillations directly."
"Mica, which heads the list of critical raw materials, is needed so urgently that quantities are being flown to the United States from India. Action is being taken now toward developing domestic mica resources, chiefly in North Carolina, Georgia, New Hampshire, Connecticut, and South Dakota. In this article mica sources, especially those in the Western Hemisphere, are surveyed and the production problem is found to be based on the dearth of skilled, low-cost labor."
"America and Europe are developing different types of switchgear equipment, conditioned by the type of facilities available in certain regions and the particular requirements in those regions. Present trends in switchgear apparatus are guided to a considerable extent by the abundance or scarcity of the material resources involved in construction and operation of the equipment."
"I LOOK back over half a century to refresh my memory of what being an American has meant to me progressively through all these years. Born in Armenia, I derived my earliest conception of America from story tellers, and it was about as fantastic as Alice's Wonderland. At the age of 21, while teaching arithmetic in a school, the thought occurred to me one winter morning that I should go to this romantic country. Within a few hours I was on the way. What? Such haste? Doesn't one wait to the end of the school year? Of course not; that is, not if one has indulged in a little free speech the night before in a public lecture at which unexpectedly some Turks were present, and this morning one has been notified to go to the government palace and hand the manuscript of his talk to the pasha. To the Armenians, a phantom inscription on the palace door said: “Enter. No exit.” In the Turkish Empire, only the Turks took their time; others hustled."
"Maximum aid to the war effort will be the principal theme for most sessions and conferences to be held during the AIEE national technical meeting in New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, with headquarters in the Engineering Societies' Building. The Institute of Radio Engineers has been invited to hold their meeting concurrently. Thursday, January 28, will be devoted primarily to IRE sessions, which will be open to AIEE members, in both morning and afternoon. IRE members also are cordially invited to attend any of the AIEE sessions. The day's activities will culminate in a joint AIEE-IRE evening meeting."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"War problems and the effects of the war on the work of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development held the spotlight at the tenth annual meeting of the Council held in New York, N. Y., October 18, 1942. Among important actions taken were the adoption of a plan of operation for carrying out ECPD functions locally, proposed by AIEE representative J. F. Fairman (F '25), vice-president, Consolidated Edison Company of New York (N. Y.), Inc., and outlined previously at the AIEE 1942 summer convention conference of officers, delegates, and members held in Chicago, Ill., in June 1942."
"A long-range plan for controlling the flow of critical materials into war production the Controlled Materials Plan was announced November 2, 1942, by Donald M. Nelson, chairman of the War Production Board."
"As already announced in the news press, the Army Specialist Corps will be discontinued December 31, 1942, by direction of Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson. As previously reported in Electrical Engineering (EE, Aug. '42, pp. 440–2; Sept. '42, p. 490) the Specialist Corps was brought into being during the spring months of 1942 for the purpose of obtaining from civil life especially qualified technical and professional men for duties with the Army where military training and experience are not essential. The procurement functions and basic policies of the Corps are being absorbed by a new War Department agency which has been designated as the Officer Procurement Service; this new agency also is taking over from the office of the Adjutant General essentially all officer-procurement functions. Thus, the OPS will provide a single consolidated channel for officer-procurement for all branches of the Army."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. AH letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without letter, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The conditions which a valid postulated electric-energy flow must satisfy are given and are stated to be insufficient for its unique determination. The commonly used Vi energy-flow postulate is shown by examples to be not generally valid, but by adding a simple term it can be made equally valid with other valid energy-flow postulates. Various examples are given of the application of this corrected energy-flow postulate. On power systems the engineer commonly limits his use of the uncorrected Vi postulate to applications where the correcting term should have a negligible net effect. Various examples of such use are discussed."
"THE main purpose of this paper is to describe the development of a major interconnected system located in the province of Quebec."
"SUCH hydroelectric projects as the Boulder Dam, Grand Coulee, and that proposed for the St. Lawrence River present serious power limit and short-circuit problems. Each of these developments will be capable of producing over 1,000,000 kw, part of which for each case must be transmitted over 200 miles. Any method which will increase transient stability and lower fault currents should be carefully investigated; this paper presents the investigation of such a method."
"FORMULAS for inverse functions of complex quantities, such as sin (x+iy), are of use in several branches of electrical engineering. Calculations for transmission circuits require them, particularly in connection with communication circuits. Integration of expressions involving complex quantities can involve inverse functions. They are encountered also in conformal transformations."
"Some conditions which have to be met with in protecting transformers by the usual current-differential method produce special problems. Those involving the protection of interconnected wye or zigzag transformers and those involving Scott-connected transformers are dealt with at some length. There is also a discussion of tolerances in the selection of current transformers and the factors to be considered in the selection of relays for the purpose."
"THIS paper gives a brief report on certain installations of air-blast circuit breakers now in service in Canada, including results of interrupting tests and operating experience."
"With the birth of the transformer and the first distribution of alternating currents, wave form assumed interest, and methods were developed for its determination, chiefly the point-by-point method of instantaneous contact, mechanical oscillograph, cathode-ray oscillograph, and the oscilloscope with stabilized time axis. The point-by-point method, by which were made the first major contributions, is now practically superseded by oscillograph and oscilloscope, each finding increasing use in its field. With the determination of wave form accomplished, demand arose for its standardization corresponding to expanding applications. No single standard being suited to all applications, different standards have been developed in different fields, as in power, communication, and insulation. While it is desirable that standards, once set up, remain fairly stable, they should be subject to review and occasional change to keep in step with technological advances. Minor revision in communication is in progress. Although standards in other fields do not appear ideal, no immediate revision is recommended. Forty references are appended."
"The air-blast high-voltage circuit breaker has been developed and applied on high-voltage systems of 150 and 240 kv. Both single-phase and three-phase automatic high-speed reclosing can be carried out with this new type of circuit breaker. The principles of design and operation are explained and the construction of two high-voltage air-blast circuit breakers rated at 150 kv and 220 kv, installed in Canadian power-distribution plants, is described and supplemented by a discussion of performance tests and oscillograms. The construction of an air-blast circuit breaker with axial blast, designed for extremely high voltage and high interrupting capacity, is explained, and results of various tests discussed."
"THE mathematical solution of a-c network problems, of the type known as load distribution and voltage studies, is difficult and tedious for complex networks."
"This paper describes the 120-kv oil-filled cable system of the Montreal Light, Heat, and Power Consolidated, installed during 1941 and in present operation as a link in a large interconnection scheme. The paper describes the functions of the various sections of the system and the reasons for the choice of this method of effecting the interconnection. The steps required in designing the cable system are outlined and the general principles governing each such step discussed. A short section deals with manufacture followed by a section covering the organization required for installation and the methods followed. The final section deals with operating practice, especially the basis of loading."
"The widespread and general use of three-phase automatic service-restoring equipment on low-cost low-revenue distribution lines has created a field for a single-pole service-restoring device having continuously adjustable characteristics for trip current and time delay, and powered by a prestored source of energy. The device described in this paper utilizes a new and unique application for the prestoring of the operating energy and the restoration of the utilized operating energy after transient fault conditions."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"FOR the operation of power-transmission systems of medium and long length, the problem of stability is becoming increasingly important. This is true in the steady state of the system as well as in the transient state, during and after the occurrence of a fault on the system. Since the design of the transmission system is primarily responsible for its proper operation, and since the a-c network analyzer offers the best means for system analysis, the present study was undertaken for the purpose of correlating the design and operational data by means of the a-c network analyzer. For this purpose several power-transmission systems were selected, and their steady-state and transient-stability characteristics studied. Thus the steady-state and transient-stability limits of the system were obtained on the analyzer."
"The paper points out that during the period of the war the need for obtaining maximum transformer overload capacity is very great, particularly under rare emergency conditions. From a thermal standpoint, the amount of overload is limited by the hottest spot in the transformer winding. To obtain accurate data 1. On the actual hot-spot temperature s under rated load conditions 2. On the increase of the hot spot with load under both ultimate moderate overload and heavy short-time overload conditions"
"ABOUT the year 1929 it first became appreciated that the lightning discharge is not instantaneous. The recognition of this fact had a profound influence upon the theories of lightning protection, the emphasis being diverted from induced to direct strokes1 as the agent to be guarded against. With the meager information then available the calculations indicated that induced voltages were unimportant when the finite time of discharge was taken into account.2 The more accurate information available today calls for a critical analysis of this subject, which is the purpose of the present paper."
"Since the author's 1939 paper,1 further data have been obtained regarding the loading of underground power systems having impregnated-paper-insulated lead-covered underground cable. The results of the studies may be summarized as follows: 1. The factors affecting the setting of maximum safe conductor temperatures are so numerous that no fixed value (or values) can be assumed as applicable to all installations of a given design and size of cable in this country. 2. For some cables, the present temperature limits for normal day-in and day-out operation may be safely exceeded, especially for wartime conditions. 3. For emergency operation safe temperatures may be even higher than listed in the previous paper, especially for wartime operation. 4. Operation in wartimes at special temperatures will mean in some cases substantial shortening of the life of underground circuits and an accompanying increase in service interruptions. 5. Wartime increases in usual maximum daily loading and in load factors may cause large increases in duct and copper temperatures, even if past current ratings are maintained. These temperatures will sometimes exceed those in the present standards. 6. The safe temperature for emergency operation, particularly for extra-high-voltage cables, may be limited by the joints. Also, for all kinds of cable sufficient room must be provided to avoid mechanical damage of cable or joints in manholes with cable movements incidental to emergency loads. 7. Cracking of lead sheaths due to reciprocating cable movement into manholes may limit the temperature range for usual daily loading, but has little effect on the safe emergency loading. 8. For three-conductor solid-type cable, the insulation of the shielded type can safely withstand higher temperatures than the belted type, but the reverse is true as to the allowable daily temperature range with regard to its effect on the sheath in manholes. 9. Cable movement increases with length of conduit sections up to about 250 feet but shows little change with further increases in length up to 1,025 feet. 10. Changes in installation methods and the use of new types of repairs may help to mitigate troubles due to sheath cracking. 11. Copper shielding tape in three-conductor cable with relatively thin insulation has little effect in reducing the thermal drop from the conductor to the sheath. 12. In some cases considerable thermal advantage may be gained economically by making relatively deep installations of conduit. 13. In most cases, the maximum conduit temperature of 50 degrees centigrade given in the previous paper may be safely exceeded."
"Very little material dealing with the factors (such as network dissymmetries) which lead to incorrect operation of directional relays has appeared in the technical literature. Practical experience has been the guide as to the relative merits of the 12 possible connections which utilize either line-to-neutral or line-to-line voltages and line currents or the differences of line currents to actuate the relay elements. In this article a graphical method for analyzing directional-relay operation is developed, utilizing circle diagrams and symmetrical components, and the method is applied to general cases to ascertain the effects of network dissymmetries. Since the relay volt-ampere expressions in terms of symmetrical components are too complicated to show the relative merits of the 12 connections, the expressions also are given in terms of the modified symmetrical components introduced by Edith Clarke and now widely used in network-analyzer studies of unbalanced faults. Circle diagrams based upon these modified components show conclusively that the ordinary 90-degree, 30-degree, and 60-degree connections are more free from disturbing influences than the other nine and therefore give more reliable operation in most practical applications of directional relays. The particular connection which will be most reliable at any given location can be determined by the methods given here when the constants of the power network are known."
"ENGINEERS are quite familiar with simple probability distributions showing the relative likelihoods of occurrence of the different values which a varying physical or electrical quantity may assume. As the complexities of machines and circuits in modern design increase, it becomes highly desirable to be able to estimate the probability distribution resulting from the joint presence of two or more sources of variation. This paper will undertake to present something of the theory of making such combinations, and its application to a number of practical examples."
"This paper presents the results of an analytical and experimental investigation of the use of series capacitors to increase the permissible loadings of long high-voltage a-c transmission lines. Because of limitations imposed by synchronous stability and reactive kilovolt-ampere requirements, conventional lines, when extended to the higher voltages and greater lengths, cannot be loaded to values of power sufficiently high to develop maximum over-all economy. It is shown that, when suitably applied, series capacitors will make possible the desired optimum loadings and will very materially reduce transmission costs. The theoretical possibilities of using series capacitors to compensate the excessive inductive reactance of long lines have received consideration for many years. Practical series capacitors require protective equipment, but shunting of the capacitors in the earlier schemes resulted in a decrease instead of an increase in the transient-stability limits. The authors propose series capacitors of the limited-voltage type in combination with auxiliary equipment which not only protects the insulation but quickly restores the capacitors to the circuit after the faulted conductors are isolated, thus preventing a decrease in system power limit at the time of need. The application requirements of necessary apparatus are also briefly outlined. Results of analytical studies and miniature-system tests in connection with a typical application of series capacitors to one of the major lines of a typical transmission system are included. This work deals with relative transmission costs, transient stability, spontaneous hunting, and the sub-synchronous operation in the induction starting of machines. The conclusion is reached that the proposed series-capacitor scheme appears practicable for long transmission lines."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–18 by I. W. Gross and G. D. Lippert, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 26–30, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, April section, pages 178–85; previous discussions published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, pages 450–3."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–83 by C. H. Willis and C. C. Herskind, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Schenectady, N. Y., April 29-May 1, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, July section, pages 496–9."
"Discussion of paper 42–79 by B. W. Jones, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Schenectady, N. Y., April 29-May 1, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, July section, pages 483–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–86 by J. E. Yarmack, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Schenectady, N. Y., April 29-May 1, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, July section, pages 488–95."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–78 by H. B. Dwight, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Schenectady, N. Y., April 29-May 1, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, July section pages 513–18."
"Discussion of paper 42–82 by J. A. Scott and B. H. Thompson, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Schenectady, N. Y., April 29-May 1, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, July section, pages 499–501."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–80 by H. H. Marsh, Jr., and G. B. Dodds, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Schenectady, N. Y., April 29-May 1, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, July section, pages 533–5."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–121 by H. F. Brown, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 589–93."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–127 by E. H. Burgess, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942 and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 604–06."
"Discussion of paper 42–137 by C. E. De Leuw, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, November section, pages 780–7."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–129 by G. F. Lincks and C. R. Craig, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, November section, pages 813–21."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–108 by E. J. Wade, T. J. Carpenter, and D. D. MacCarthy, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 549–53"
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–96 by Theodore Brownlee, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published at AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 539–44."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–95 by D. E. Trucksess, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 613–17."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–110 by Edward Lynch, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, October section, pages 764–70."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–134 by F. K. McCune and J. H. Goss, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 673–6."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–123 by H. T. Faus and J. R. Macintyre, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 586–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–101 by F. J. Vogel and T. K. Sloat, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 669–73."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–98 by F. M. Clark, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, October section, pages 742–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–93 by R. E. Hellmund and P. H. McAuley, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 553–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–115 by V. M. Montsinger and P. M. Ketch urn, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, pages 906–16."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–125 by W. K. Sonnemann, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 677–80."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–136 by E. L. Harder and M. A. Bostwick, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 645–52."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–116 by the AIEE current transformer subcommittee of the committee on protective devices presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 698–706."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–107 by J. G. Hemstreet, W. W. Lewis, and C. M. Foust, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 628–34."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–109 by J. M. Bryant and M. Newman, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, August section, 1942, pages 564–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–103 by C. F. Wagner and G. D. McCann, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, pages 916–30."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–91 by E. Hansson and S. K. Waldorf, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 599–603."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–104 by K. B. McEachron and J. H. Hagenguth, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 559–64."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–120 by R. C. Van Sickle, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, November section, pages 804–13."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–130 by H. P. St. Clair and J. A. Adams, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 666–9."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–131 by J. A. Adams, W. F. Skeats, R. C. Van Sickle, and T. G. A. Sillers, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, November section, pages 771–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–114 by R. C. Cunningham and A. W. Hill, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 695–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–119 by T. W. Schroeder, E. W. Boehne, and J. W. Butler, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, November section, pages 821–31."
"Discussion and authors' closures of papers 42–133 and 42–135 by I. T. Faucett, L. I. Ko-mives, H. W. Collins, and R. W. Atkinson, and paper 42–102 by G. B. Shanklin, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 652–7, 658–65, and October section, pages 719–26."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–92 by J. B. Whitehead, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 618–22."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–111 by Herman Halperin, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, pages 930–42."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–113 by J. E. McCormack and R. J. Lombard, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 623–4."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–112 by E. C. Starr and R. D. Evans, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, pages 963–73."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–117 by John G. Holm, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, pages 893–905."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–88 by Charles F. Dalziel, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, October section, pages 757–64."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–89 by Troy D. Graybeal, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, October section, pages 750–6."
"Discussion of paper 42–132 by R. R. Longwell and M. E. Reagan, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 634–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–143 by M. A. Hyde and H. B. Britton, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 638–44."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–94 by D. E. Marshall and E. G. F. Arnott, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 545–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–106 by M. M. Morack and H. C Steiner, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 594–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–141 by Joseph Slepian, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, December section, pages 835–41."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–139 by J. W. Seaman and L. W. Morton, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, November section, pages 788–96."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–105 by A. H. Mittag and A. Schmidt, Jr., presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, August section, pages 574–7."
"Discussion of paper 42–99 by P. O. Langguth, H. L. Rawlins, and J. M. Wallace, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, July section, pages 536–8."
"Discussion of paper 42–138 by T. R. Rhea and H. H. Zielinski, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, October section, pages 733–41. The following discussion was presented at the 1942 summer convention."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–156 by the AIEE transformer subcommittee of the committee on electrical machinery, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, September section, pages 692–4. This discussion was presented at the Pacific Coast convention."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–118 by J. H. Cox and G. F. Jones, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, and at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, October section, pages 713–18. The following discussion was presented at the 1942 Pacific Coast convention."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–153 by G. W. Bills and C. A. MacArthur, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, December section, pages 848–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–146 by P. W. Shill, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, December section, pages 854–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–149 by Waldo E. Enns, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, December section, pages 875–80."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–147 by E. E. Tugby, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, December section, pages 889–92."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–152 by Frederick Bedell, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, December section, pages 864–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–157 by H. W. Haberl and R. A. Moore, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast Convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, December section, pages 859–63."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 42–155 by Armin K. Leuthold, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, December section, pages 869–75."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 42–148 by D. M. Farnham and O. W. Titus, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast convention, Vancouver, B. C., Canada, September 9–11, 1942, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1942, December section, pages 881–8."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"AS A NATION we are bending prodigious energies to the defense of a political system in which free men gather from time to time to guide the progress of their economic and social order. Such is the system we identify with America. Such is the system we believe to be worth fighting for. And let me emphasize that the preservation of this system requires recognition of the importance of two words, “progress” and “order”."
"BRUSHING aside for the moment any technical difficulties, which are not insuperable, the problem of power-system development on a national scale becomes one of power-system economics and public policy. System planning consists in carefully working out the best means of providing and distributing power to supply the anticipated loads with adequate and reliable service in the most economical manner. System development should naturally follow system planning with such modifications and exceptions as circumstances may warrant. System planning and development on a national scale is but a name for the application to larger areas and a multiplicity of systems of the same methods and processes and similar technical and economic studies as would be adopted on an individual-system basis."
"ANY speaker who attempted to predict even the immediate future with reference to almost any angle of the war program would be exceedingly bold and foolish, and any statement of current facts would be quite likely to be relatively useless within a short time of utterance. The one thing of which we can be reasonably sure is that the pattern of our war program will be subject to many sudden and extensive changes frustrating forecast and altering the facts. This implies no slightest criticism of the administration of our prewar effort. On the contrary, it is a realistic appraisal of a situation inevitable in a democracy."
"THE PROBLEM before the electrical-manufacturing industry is to produce the maximum amount of equipment in the minimum possible time."
"THIS SUBJECT might be developed as an implication of the “good neighbor” or hemisphere-defense program, which would give it a certain takeoff, since everyone knows about the good-neighbor program. This is not merely a political or diplomatic catchword but has roots in the minds of the people of the United States and expresses their genuine interest in and sympathy for the people of the other Americas. Reciprocally, it appears to me that other American peoples have a fellow feeling for us, and that their heritage from the culture of the old regime in Europe is such as to prompt them to join in a demonstration of international policies contrasting with those enmities and aggressions which have brought misery to other parts of the world. We all know that the inter-American spirit has brought tangible results in the form of trade agreements to facilitate the interchange of products for mutual benefit and that the United States have had splendid co-operation from the other American countries in the increased supply of strategic materials employed by our industries in the effort to arrest the present attempts to deprive human beings of the various kinds of personal liberty which civilization has painfully acquired in recent centuries."
"The Polarization Parameters of Several Solid Dielectrics and Their Changes With Temperature and Composition; R. F. Field. It has been shown by K. S. and R. H. Cole that the plot of loss factor against dielectric constant for a single polarization of any dielectric is a circular arc with its center depressed below the dielectric-constant axis. Three parameters are sufficient for specifying the polarization: (1) the change in dielectric constant from zero to infinite frequency (2) the relaxation frequency (3) the storage coefficient defined as the ratio of the depression angle to a right angle and proportional to the ratio of the stored to dissipated energy in the polarization mechanism."
"Notwithstanding the war, a program representing technical developments in many fields, and including the customary social activities, has been arranged for the AIEE winter convention, which will be held in New York, N. Y., January 26–30, 1942, with headquarters in the Engineering Societies' Building. The mornings and afternoons will be taken up with 21 technical sessions, 4 of which are combined with conferences, and in addition 5 other conference sessions will be held. During the evenings the smoker, Edison medal presentation, and dinner-dance will take place as usual. Because of war conditions, no inspection trips to industrial plants or utilities will be arranged, but plans are being made for other interesting trips."
"In order that the National Inventors Council may achieve the highest possible success in eliciting from the inventive brains of the nation all suggestions applicable to national defense, it is necessary that inventors be assured that suggestions submitted to the Council are receiving adequate consideration. To convey such assurance is the purpose of this article."
"Since 1926 many significant field tests on high-voltage circuit breakers have been made on the American Gas and Electric Company's central system, which have served as an important aid in high-voltage circuit breaker development. Such tests have also served as a means for studying and checking the behavior of this large power system under short-circuit conditions."
"The need for an improved method of measuring starting torque of large induction starting synchronous motors as compared to the power input and dynamometer methods, has led to the use of the acceleration oscillogram. A low ripple, permanent magnet type d-c generator is driven by the motor, and traces a time-speed oscillogram, from which acceleration, and the torque producing it, may be calculated."
"THE effect of temperature elevation on impregnated paper insulation is to increase conductivity and dielectric loss and to accelerate such chemical action as may be possible among the constituent paper, oil, and adjacent electrodes. Both effects increase rapidly above, say 60 degrees centigrade, but are relatively small at ordinary atmospheric temperatures in dry and air-free insulation."
"For many years the company with which the authors are associated endeavored to find some satisfactory method of testing generator insulation in the field. With this in mind, it was decided to experiment with higher d-c potentials. Several d-c testers were built and a series of tests made. This paper describes the progress during the first ten years of testing generators in the field with high d-c voltage."
"LINE sectionalizing in the main feeder and individual protection at branch-line junctions offers a practical solution to the problem of service interruption caused by overcurrent faults on distribution lines. Actual operating data have shown that as high as 96 per cent of all consumer minutes outage (minutes of outage per consumer per year) are caused by faults out beyond the substation, with 85 to 90 per cent of the outage time resulting from faults occurring on the primary lines. These faults are divided between those which persist so as to require servicing by a line crew (permanent faults) and those which are temporary, so that they cause a negligible momentary opening of the circuit or a momentary collapse of the voltage.1 Operating experience shows that the percentage of temporary faults varies from 15 to 85 per cent of the total,2 depending on local conditions and the amount spent on such things as tree trimming and pulling up slack."
"In the past designers as well as users of current transformers have employed ratio error and phase-angle curves in which the abscissa represents primary or secondary current to a linear scale. Numerous curves were necessary both for obtaining a clear picture of the performance characteristics as well as for determining the errors for the multiplicity of possible secondary burdens. Part I of this paper shows that a more functional picture of current-transformer operation is obtained by replacing these commonly used curves by the admittance-vector locus of the secondary winding with the primary open circuited, the end point of the vector representing the independent variable in a curvilinear co-ordinate system. The numerous ratio and phase-angle curves resulting from various secondary burdens and, in case of multiratio transformers, from different numbers of turns, when referred to this new co-ordinate system revert to one single curve. Ratio error and phase angle for any burden at any power factor, turn ratio, and secondary current can be scaled or read directly from a chart using as a basis the admittance vector locus of the steel forming the magnetic circuit of the transformer. For designers as well as users it is often advantageous to be in possession of analytical expressions for ratio error and phase angle. In part II of the paper general formulas are set up which express the performance in terms of the various constants and variables of a transformer, making it unnecessary to refer to charts for the analysis of important design or performance factors."
"The development of high-capacity air-blast breakers in this country has taken place without the background of operating experience which has attended the use of oil circuit breakers and has, therefore, emphasized the need for testing this equipment at levels comparable with the assigned interrupting ratings."
"Voice-frequency carrier-current telegraph systems used in this country and abroad have until now employed amplitude modulation, analogous to single current signalling in d-c telegraphy. A variety of so-called two-tone telegraph systems has been tried out by various workers, but none of these was adopted on a commercial scale because all required the employment of at least double the frequency spectrum space ordinarily assigned for amplitude modulation. The system described employs true frequency modulation to derive the advantages of polar current signalling, with the same spectrum efficiency as conventional amplitude systems, and secures at the same time freedom from attenuation change in the transmission medium and greater immunity to extraneous disturbing currents."
"An extensive oscillographic study has been made on power distribution feeders primarily to obtain data useful in the consideration of joint use of poles by power and telephone facilities. Some of the results, chiefly those obtained from three-phase, four-wire, multigrounded neutral feeders equipped with instantaneous ground relays and for immediate breaker reclosure, are believed to be of general interest and are presented herewith. Included are data on the performance of the protective devices utilized for clearing ground faults on the feeders included in the study, the effectiveness and certain limitations of these devices, and characteristics of the faults experienced."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"BRIEFLY, the function of the Palomar Mountain 200-inch telescope is to collect light from celestial objects and concentrate it at the prime focus, or, by a series of additional reflections from auxiliary mirrors, bring the light to other focal points both on and off the telescope. The major advantages of the 200-inch telescope over other large telescopes are: (1) its considerably larger light-gathering capacity, permitting reduction in time of exposures and the photographing of more distant objects; (2) its design, permitting astronomical work directly on the telescope at the prime focus, thus avoiding the loss of light through additional reflections: (3) its flexibility by remotely operated auxiliary mirror combinations; and (4) its automatically corrected drive and setting controls."
"THROUGH research at the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company's porcelain plant in Derry, Pa., a new porcelain that combines all the advantages of both the wet and dry processes of manufacture recently has been produced on a commercial scale. Intricacy of shape is combined with high dielectric and mechanical strengths at reasonable cost."
"PROTECTIVE lighting is not a new practice grown out of the present war program. It has been in use for the past 25 years and is better known as yard lighting. It has been used by generating plants to prevent raids on the coal pile, in silk mills to prevent theft of valuable merchandise, in automobile factories to prevent theft of storage batteries, tires and other readily saleable parts. Yard lighting has been universally used by steel plants to prevent yard accidents and by many plants as a means of protection of property during strikes. In some industries, such as shipbuilding and structural steel plants and oil refineries, much of the production work is carried on out-of-doors, and yard lighting has been used to facilitate production, storage, and shipping. During war times, theft, fire, strike damage, and interruption of production become “sabotage,” and so yard lighting takes on a new name — protective lighting, referring to protection of property — material, facilities, and life and limb. The chief difference is that loss from sabotage is greater and industry can ill afford the loss in such times."
"OPERATIONAL CALCULUS is a very powerful tool for solving the differential equations of engineering. This article discusses some of the basic principles of Heaviside's direct operational calculus and how they can be applied to the solution of engineering problems. No attempt will be made to prove the various expressions that are to be used or to cover completely all the points of interest. The necessary justifications can be derived from the material to be presented in subsequent articles of this series."
"IN 1940 the American people spent $113,580,000 to buy 1,552,666 household washing machines. That is big business! But the only way the washing-machine industry could become a big business, and the only way it can remain a big business, is by supplying machines that fulfill the users' actual needs and desires. In practice, this means that the industry must anticipate by several years what features washing-machine buyers will want."
"Which metals will continue to be used in increasing quantities? Already we are witnessing the phenomenal growth of the light metals. Military planes dictate the expansion of domestic production capacity to 700,000 tons a year for aluminum and 200,000 tons a year for magnesium, representing 5-fold and 100-fold increases compared with the 1937 peak output of the respective metals. When the war is over, efforts will be made to utilize this capacity."
"The forthcoming North Eastern District meeting and Student Branch convention will be held at Schenectady, N. Y., April 29–May 1, 1942, with headquarters in the Van Curler Hotel. Tentative arrangements are being made for four technical sessions, a general session, a student program, entertainment, sports, and trips."
"Three plans for further mobilization of the nation's war-production facilities currently are being pushed by the Office of Production Management∗: (1) industrywide conversion of many durable goods industries from civilian to war production; (2) promotion of “war-production associations” and (3) further subcontracting to individual plants through local offices of the contract distribution division of OPM. Smaller manufacturers that have been deprived of raw materials for their normal production can thus enter into war production through any of these channels. It has been estimated that to turn out the tremendous volume war orders now in prospect will require that all suitable “moderate size” plants in the United States be utilized."
"TEN years' experience with a high-power laboratory, giving approximately 1,100,000 three-phase initial symmetrical kilovolt-amperes on short circuit at the machine bus,1 has defined its usefulness and limitations and has resulted in an addition to its installed equipment. By taking advantage of assymmetry this capacity has been sufficient to demonstrate ratings up to 1,500,000 kva, and the increased testing capacity is required to demonstrate interrupting ratings of 2,500,000 kva."
"THE electrical drive for a wide speed range is obtained by the addition of a rotating regulator called a Rototrol to a conventional variable voltage system. This combination will give a speed range of 120 to 1 or more, and can be used effectively in many industries to simplify the mechanical design of the machine which it drives. Its use eliminates elaborate gear-change mechanism, clutches, and so forth, and at the same time gives a more flexible control scheme with the complete speed range under the control of the operator without leaving the work or stopping the machine."
"“Maximum demand” has become an increasingly important item in rates for the sale of electric service since the appearance of Doctor John Hopkinson's notable paper, “Cost of Electricity Supply,” in the year 1892 — nearly 50 years ago. The writer estimates that the demand-measuring equipment which is now being used by the public utilities of the United States has a value of the order of $100,000,000. This is an index of its present importance. The object of the present paper is to describe in detail the thermal-storage method of measuring the maximum demand of a user of electric service. A comparison is made between this method, which at each instant of time indicates the logarithmic average load over some nominal time interval, and the commonly used “block-interval” method, which indicates the arithmetic average load over the same time interval. Also, the effect of using a modified design of thermal-demand meters is discussed. The writer has contributed a number of previous papers dealing with this same general subject, reference to which will be found at end of paper."
"THERE are numerous applications where it is desired to measure a voltage at one point of a line or feeder by the use of an instrument placed at some other point. The instrument measures the voltage at the point of the line to which it is connected, and also measures the line drop to the remote point. These two measurements are combined so that the resultant indication is the voltage at the remote point of the feeder. If the instrument has contacts on it so that it may actuate control circuits, it is known as a voltage-regulating relay plus line-drop compensator. Such a device finds application ta regulating equipment such as tap-changing transformers, capacitor-switching schemes for power-factor control, and the like."
"THE voltage regulator described in this paper is intended for those applications where the operating efficiency is of secondary importance to other requirements. Excluding the consideration of efficiency, the output voltage of an ideal voltage regulator should be of sinusoidal wave form and should remain constant with any variation in input voltage and frequency and any variation in load volt-amperes and power factor."
"A carrier-current system providing a relatively large number of channels is in service on a high-voltage power line. The facilities provide: 1. Transmission of signals both ways for the opening of the circuit breakers at the remote end by the operation of relays at the near end. 2. Two-way telephone service between any extension telephone at the remote generating station and any telephone connecting to the main telephone switchboard in the central office building. 3. Two-way telemetering (station generation one way and system total generation the other way). 4. Transmission from the systetai operator's office to the station of automatically generated load-control signals used to increase or decrease automatically the station generation. 5. Two channels in each direction for future requirements."
"THE advantages of fast reclosing of transmission-line circuit breakers have been realized for a number of years. This experience has been gained on the basis of three-pole reclosures. One step beyond three-pole tripping and reclosure is single-pole operation. It is arranged so that on single phase-to-ground faults only the faulty phase wire is disconnected at each end of the line and then immediately reclosed. This allows synchronizing current to flow over the two sound-phase conductors during the time the faulted phase wire is out of service. With single-pole tripping slower speed reclosing, as compared to three-pole operation, can be utilized with a definite gain in the stability limit.1"
"THE first application of high-speed single-pole reclosing to a high-voltage transmission line was recently made, tested, and put in service, on a 50-mile section of 138-kv single-circuit line on the system of the Public Service Company of Indiana, Inc. This paper discusses the reasons for choosing single-pole reclosing, and the installation and field testing of the equipment made under operating conditions. A companion paper by S. L. Goldsborough and A. W. Hill1 describes the relaying and circuit-breaker equipment in detail."
"DURING the past months with the hysteria of war about us and with the nation struggling to convert its peacetime activities into a gigantic war-time arsenal of fighting and defense implements, the most urgent demands have been made for a trained personnel. The present dearth of technically trained workers and skilled artisans has been strongly felt in nearly every phase of this controversion of industry — ranging from the highest levels of engineering research and design, on through the vast varieties of supervisory positions in manufacture and inspection of materiel, and into the front line trenches of industry where plowshares are being turned into proverbial swords."
"This paper discusses quantitatively the effect of indiscriminate (random phase-angle) switching in the primary of a resistance-welding transformer supplying a resistance welder. The current and power transients occurring because of “off-angle” switching are investigated through oscillographic records of transients in loads built up to simulate actual welder-head loads as nearly as possible."
"AS compared to transmission lines, it is more important that overhead ground wires or vertical masts over substations be correctly located so as to provide shielding of the structure against direct strokes of lightning. In a previously published paper1 the authors discussed the shielding characteristics required for transmission lines. The present paper extends these investigations to the shielding of substations."
"IN January 1940 there was presented before the Institute a paper1 describing a new high-capacity air-blast circuit breaker. Since then, breakers of higher interrupting rating have been built, following out the general principles of design and construction disclosed at that time. As part of an organized development program, such breakers have been subjected to extensive interrupting tests under factory laboratory conditions. However, it is recognized that the final proof of the interrupting performance of high-capacity circuit breakers comes as a result of tests made on actual operating systems."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE name of Edison reminds us that imagination is no less a tool of the engineering profession than fact bound analysis. The medal which honors the revered memory of Benjamin Lamme bears these words from his pen, “The engineer views hopefully the hitherto unattainable.” Kettering is quoted as saying that the difference between a research man and an inventor is that the latter does not know all the reasons why a thing cannot be done, therefore he goes ahead and does it. We engineers who have not only a war to win but also a peace to make secure should pray for a double portion of their spirit."
"Many of the recent developments in airport lighting are exemplified at the new National Airport at Washington, D. C.; these and other types of modern practice are presented in engineering detail."
"AMERICANS have reason to be proud of this country's industrial might. We have a natural heritage of great factories, raw materials, tools, and skilled man power. This is a country of light and power. No other country of the world has such a combination of natural, human, and mechanized resources. Our economy, however, has been developed to meet peacetime needs. Our men and machines are highly specialized in making automobiles and radios, and other things that improve the standard of living. As yet, we are awkard in making the implements of war. But we must and can make them, and the next year will witness the most difficult and amazing industrial reorganization in history. American industry will be converted, practically overnight, from peacetime mass production to the entirely different job of making the machines of war."
"OUR war-production program for 1942 is well known to all. The President asked for 60,000 airplanes, 45,000 tanks, 20,000 antiaircraft guns, 8,000,000 deadweight tons of ships. No one knows better than you the tremendous task it will be to produce these badly needed war materials. Never before has such a program been laid out for any other country, and its achievement will be possible only in the United States."
"THE AIEE's highest honor, the Edison Medal, was presented for 1941 to Doctor John Boswell Whitehead, professor of electrical engineering and director of the school of engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., “for his contributions in the field of electrical engineering, his pioneering and development in the field of dielectric research, and his achievements in the advancement of engineering education.”"
"IN recognition of most meritorious achievement in the field of electrical engineering by one of our distinguished members, Doctor John Boswell Whitehead, he is awarded the Edison Medal. This Medal was established 38 years ago as a memorial to Thomas Edison whose contributions to the development of the new electrical art did so much for the well-being of our fellow men."
"SOME years ago, in a happier day for France, it was my privilege to be associated over a brief period with Professor Paul Janet, distinguished director of L'Ecole Supérieure d'Electricité in Paris. In his office, stretching well across one wall, was a row of portrait photographs, only one or two of which could I identify. To my question as to who they were, Janet replied: “Les hommes qui ont influencé ma vie” (Men who have influenced my life). It seemed to me a very graceful way of paying constant tribute to men he had admired, revered, and who had had an influence on his life."
"IN the first article of this series Professor J. B. Russell1 gave a survey of Heaviside's direct operational calculus. This direct calculus has proved to be very successful. It may be applied to a large class of problems concerning differential equations of transients. Nevertheless there has been much criticism about the validity of the operational method. The theory of complex integration, the topic of the present article, is the main tool which permits us to put Heaviside's calculus on a solid basis. Aside from this justification, however, complex integration is an indispensable tool for any advanced mathematical treatment of transient problems, transmission problems, or related problems in electrical theory."
"The influence of the war, into which the United States was so suddenly plunged on December 7, 1941, was reflected in many ways at the AIEE 1942 winter convention held January 26–30 in New York, N. Y. This was the Institute's third wartime national convention, the two previous ones having been held February 15–16, 1918, and June 26–28, 1918. Attendance was the lowest it has been since 1937, a total of 1,331 having registered. Average attendance at sessions also was somewhat lower than in previous recent years. Attendance details are given in accompanying tabulations."
"A two-point Government-sponsored program to meet urgent wartime demands for greatly increased domestic mine production of copper, lead, and zinc over the next 2 1/2 years was announced recently. Participation by Metals Reserve Company in the program was made known by Jesse Jones, Federal Loan Administrator."
"WE are living today in some of the most critical times in the world's history. Throughout a large portion of the world men and machines are engaged in titanic struggles that may, and undoubtedly will, affect the future of Western civilization as we know it, for a century, perhaps for centuries. We, ourselves, in this country have, against our will, been drawn into this world reaching cataclysm. We are now dedicating a large part of our energies and resources and even our lives to the task of assuring that the democratic idea and way of life will emerge victorious over its counterpart and deadly enemy — the totalitarian idea. We are at war."
"This paper reviews the underground distribution system, suggests methods to conserve existing facilities and ways of utilizing latent capacity, and summarizes some of the known information available. Additional information is given on ductbank load limitations and on time-temperature factors for cable and duct."
"THE purposes of this symposium in relating distribution engineering to the present war emergency have been fully introduced and set forth in the opening paper so that further elaboration will be unnecessary here. As indicated by the title, the discussion in this paper will be confined principally to transmission substations and subtransmission lines, all as a means of supplying distribution substations. An attempt will be made to explore ways and means by which more capacity can be obtained from a given amount of material and labor, both in existing facilities as well as in the design and construction of new facilities."
"Requirements of war will impose unprecedented demands upon many distribution substations. Equipment will be overloaded before extensions can be built, if at all. New construction must be simplified to the bare essentials. Substitute materials must be used. Protection and maintenance must be intensified and operating personnel must be educated to new responsibilities and skills. These are discussed and means are suggested to meet these needs."
"An overhead electrical system makes use of large quantities of materials which are also very vital to the nation's wartime program. This paper seeks to point out the most practical ways of conserving these vital materials, thereby releasing them in greater quantities for use in wartime production. In general, this can best be accomplished by keeping to a minimum the quantities used to make the line extensions and system reinforcements which will be required to supply electric service to the new industries and military establishments, and to the increased housing facilities which must accompany them. A number of effective tools are available which may be utilized to reduce the quantities of conductor material required to give satisfactory service. There are also possibilities of rearrangement of existing facilities so as to use them more effectively."
"THE machinery manufacturers are being required to solve many design and production problems in connection with our national-defense program. All electrical manufacturing companies are exerting maximum effort to produce generators, motors, conversion apparatus, and other electrical equipment which are needed in meeting the requirements of a large and rapidly expanding industrial activity. There is a further need for machines of greater capacity, new combinations of apparatus and control devices, and more information on machine characteristics to accomplish new and difficult objectives."
"DURING the last eight years, as the result of development of the Diesel engine, Diesel-electric locomotives have come into wide use for heavy switching, passenger, and freight service. There has also been a rapid development in the electrical equipment going back about 15 years."
"THIS report presents the results of work by the lightning arrester subcommittee to bring up to date and make available to the industry the performance characteristics of present day valve-type distribution arresters having a maximum rating of 3 kv to 15 kv. Distribution arrester characteristics were given in a report by the lightning arrester subcommittee in Electrical Engineering, volume 56, May 1937, page 576. Since that date there have been changes in the arrester. The subcommittee felt it desirable to present up-to-date values and also to include values at higher discharge currents than those previously given."
"IN recent years operators have wanted to know how much overload a transformer would carry for a given length of time without exceeding a safe temperature. This knowledge would enable them to obtain the most from available equipment or to install equipment which would provide reasonable overload capacity in case of emergency. In order to do this, it is necessary to be able to calculate the temperatures within windings, and to know safe operating temperatures."
"ELECTROPNEUMATIC brakes for main-line high-speed passenger trains are a recent innovation. Electropneumatic brakes have, however, been known and used for many years. The first steam road tests were made in 1887. The results were quite gratifying, but improvements in the pneumatic apparatus resulted in such satisfactory performance that the added expense and complication of electropneumatic control was clearly not warranted. Electropneumatic brakes have been used, however, in subway and elevated service, and in considerable quantity, for more than 30 years."
"MUCH has been accomplished in recent years in the development of refined systems of control for traction motors as applied to buses, trolley coaches and street cars. Chief among the innovations is the extensive use of some form of electric braking — either as a holding brake for limiting speed when descending a grade or as a service brake for retarding the speed of the vehicle each time a slowdown or stop is made."
"UTILIZATION voltage is usually thought of in terms of the voltage rating of the lamps used, or of a nominal standard voltage announced by the company rendering service. It is probably quite generally understood that the voltage actually appearing at the outlets to which lamps or appliances are connected varies somewhat from time to time. What is not so well recognized, however, is the fact that the voltages delivered at customers' outlets on any power system are normally distributed in a characteristic pattern through a band of voltage of considerable width. It is the purpose of this paper to point out that this voltage band or spread is an inherent characteristic of the system, to discuss its source and its nature, and to indicate the connection between it and the design and rating of utilization equipment."
"THE basic theory of the capacitor motor from the cross-field point of view has been recently presented by Puchstein and Lloyd.1 It is the purpose of this paper to extend the basic relations developed by them so as to demonstrate certain current-loci characteristics of the capacitor motor."
"PROPELLER-drive equipment for use in wind-tunnel work, where airplane model testing is involved, presented no unusual problems until the advent of the present national emergency. The emergency stressed the importance of research work in airplane design, necessitating the application of the largest motor drive so far considered where a fixed frequency supply provided the energy source. Tunnels are now in operation or in the process of construction, powered by drives rated up to 40,000 horsepower. The primary condition for all such drives is variable or adjustable speed over at least a 6 to 1 range, with a large number of speed-control points and accurate speed regulation."
"THIS paper is the third of a sequence of papers intended to present data which may be used in determining the degree of protection from lightning obtainable by shielding transmission lines and structures with grounded overhead wires and masts. The first two papers of the sequence are: “Shielding of Transmission Lines,”1 and “Shielding of Substations.”2"
"DURING the past few years the rapid expansion of mercury-arc rectifier installations at 600 volts d-c, both as to the total kilowatts installed and the relatively large number of units operated in parallel, has emphasized the importance of switchgear in providing suitable rectifier operation. In the event of a backfire, the rates of current rise through a rectifier and its transformer windings lie, in general, between three million and six million amperes per second. With large installations, such as shown in Figure 1 where 60 units of 5,000 amperes each are operated in parallel, the ceiling value of these currents is far above a figure which could be tolerated both from the standpoint of continuity of operation and safety to equipment."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"RAILROAD-CAR LIGHTING has taken some remarkable strides forward in the last few years and is now on the threshold of even greater achievements due to the advent of fluorescent lamps. Before considering the present and probable future, however, it might be interesting to take just a glance at the past."
"THE EARLY HISTORY of installation and operation of electric-power systems indicates that serious troubles were experienced in line outages and apparatus failures caused by lightning. Manufacturers and operators quickly discovered that special protective devices were necessary to drain lightning currents from the system, and thus prevent dangerously high surge voltages."
"THE YEAR 1941 brought New Jersey defense contracts of more than two billion dollars and with them new highs of electric-power consumption and new problems in electricity supply. Among the larger industrial concerns that have felt the impact of what was the defense program and is now the victory program may be mentioned the Wright Aeronautical Corporation, Otis Elevator Company, Bendix Aviation Company, the Federal and New York Shipbuilding companies, Crucible Steel Company, RCA Manufacturing Company, John A. Roebling's Sons Company. One estimator has said that the state is doing more than 10 per cent of the total defense-war job."
"THE use of finely divided particles of magnetic material pressed into shape and held together with a suitable bonding material has been employed for electrical purposes for at least half a century. The improvements in manufacturing technique, the lowering of costs, and the ability to produce materials having relatively high permeability and comparatively low losses, for frequencies even as high as 100 megacycles, have resulted in a substantial use of powdered core materials for communications circuits."
"IN THE first article of this series1 the direct operational method of Heaviside was discussed. In the second article2 the theory of functions of a complex variable was considered. The results there obtained, in particular the theory of residues, are used in the present article to justify and extend Heaviside's method. The Laplacian transform is introduced, and the method shown by which, with its aid, the general circuit with lumped linear parameters subject to any given impressed voltages and arbitrary initial conditions may be solved in a straight-forward systematic manner. The questions of the validity of many doubtful steps taken in the manipulation of Heaviside's operators do not arise in this method, since the Laplacian transform analysis makes no use of operators. The connection between the transform and the operational schemes is given, and many of the Heaviside formulas used in the first article are derived."
"Light produced by a capacitor discharge into a gas-filled tube has been utilized for scientific photographic studies for some 30 years. Now the method has been improved so that large quantities of light can be produced, and ways have been developed for accurate control of the flash."
"The AIEE North Eastern District meeting to be held in Schenectady, New York, April 29–May 1, 1942, includes seven conference sessions and an unusually large number of special features, in addition to a general session, three technical sessions, and a student session. Meeting headquarters will be in the Hotel Van Curler."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The United States Navy has announced a new educational program that is intended on the one hand to keep young men in college to the limit of their ability, and on the other hand to provide the Navy with 80,000 or more specially trained young men per year qualified for advanced ratings or commissions. This program is available to any recognized university or college willing to effect only slight modifications in its regular undergraduate curricula to emphasize physical training, science, and mathematics, and will be administered by the school. Eligible candidates are young men between 17 and 19 years of age who have graduated from high school and entered — or been accepted for entrance to — any college or university collaborating with the Navy in the educational program. The students will carry on their college work at their own expense and will be allowed to continue it as far as they can do so within quality limitations prescribed by the Navy, after which they will be taken into active service at ratings in accord with their degree of advancement. It is an American plan for red-blooded American manhood and for educational institutions seriously interested in performing a vital service in an American way."
"The Horace H. Rackham Educational Memorial was recently completed as the headquarters for the Engineering Society of Detroit, and the Detroit offices of the University of Michigan Extension Service and Institute of Public and Social Administration. The building is located in Detroit's Art Center, and with its grounds occupies a city block. It contains an auditorium seating 1,000, and a banquet hall seating 650, both of which will be used jointly by the Engineering Society and the University. The Engineering Unit includes administration offices and meeting rooms for the Society and affiliated technical societies, library, auditorium seating 500, dining room, lounges, and recreation rooms. The University unit includes classrooms, a radiobroadcasting studio, library, and offices."
"George P. Hobbs' query in the November 1941 issue of Electrical Engineering (page 562) may be answered on either the practical or the philosophical level. On the former level, the magnitude of the variables is all-important, a fact implied by Mr. Hobbs in his phrase, “a statistical stream of discrete charges.” Since a coulomb contains about six million million million electrons, the calculus applies on a macroscopic statistical basis, within the limits of measurement. On the other hand, in Milliken's oil-drop experiment we deal with the individual discrete charges, giving rise to the stepwise changes mentioned by Mr. Hobbs, and calling for an entirely different mathematical treatment."
"THE term “buried cables” has come to mean those underground cables which have no conduit protection. Due to the accelerated demand for such construction in recent years, much effort has been expended in devising methods and developing machinery for burying cables. One of the earlier methods used in this and some foreign countries was to dig a trench by hand alongside the road; unreel the cable from a moving truck, thus laying it beside the trench; work the cable over into the trench by having 30 to 50 men handle it in relays; splice the cable in the trench, and finally backfill the spoil and tamp it by hand. Later variations of this method introduced one or more of the following units of machine equipment: Power trenching machines. Caterpillar tractors with trailers to straddle the trench, laying the cable directly from the reel into the trench. Drag-line or other types of power backfillers. Power tampers or rollers."
"THE investigation of transient phenomena has always been of great interest to physicists and engineers. The observing of transient phenomena presents a major problem, mainly when the time the transient occurs cannot be anticipated, and where the duration of the transient is so short that visual inspection of it is impossible."
"THE field study of the characteristics of natural lightning on transmission systems, started some 15 years ago, has been carried on with continued persistence by various investigators up to the present time. On the American Gas and Electric Company 132-kv inter-connected system, investigation was started in 1927, and the results obtained have been reported in papers1–9 before the Institute from time to time, the last appearing in 1937. This present paper presents largely the data obtained from the field work which we have carried on since that time on the above system in an attempt to learn more about the characteristics of natural lightning, particularly lightning currents and rates of voltage rise, as they affect transmission lines and equipment. It includes field data for the past four years, combined in some cases with previous field data in order to make the records complete and inclusive."
"AVEHICLE propelled by electric energy collected from a trolley-wire system has this advantage — that power is always available. It is not necessary to refill a tank or tender. Trolley-coach operation is of this type and is successful because the overhead distribution system is capable of delivering continuous power."
"Results are given of an investigation of the electric strength of nitrogen, of dichlorodifluoromethane (Freon F-12), and of mixtures of these gases. Sparking voltages are presented as measured between spherical electrodes of brass and aluminum and between pointed electrodes of brass, at various spacings, and in gas at pressures ranging from one to several atmospheres. All measurements are for 60-cycle applied voltage. Dichlorodifluoromethane is found to withstand much higher voltages than either air or nitrogen; this advantage is more marked between points than between spheres, which suggests its use in certain types of insulation applications. A small percentage of dichlorodifluoromethane gas in nitrogen produces an anomalously large rise in the electric strength of the gas, indicating practical advantages of such mixtures."
"THE Wallenpaupack-Siegfried line, the pioneer 220-kv circuit in the eastern United States, was completed in 1926.1 Little information on lightning, and most of it incorrect, existed at the time, and the design chosen proved inadequate to cope with the severe lightning conditions encountered. Partly because of this fact an investigation was started that year by the General Electric Company, the Electric Bond and Share Company, and the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company, to learn the facts about natural lightning and means for protection against its disastrous effects. This investigation has been continued for 15 consecutive years.2–8"
"THE operation of transmission and distribution lines in the high altitudes of the Rocky Mountain region had indicated that lightning strokes were not so severe as at lower altitudes. Also glow discharges or corona currents from the earth have been observed at high altitudes from pointed objects and rocks. This investigation was made to determine the probable lightning current at altitudes from 6,000 feet to 13,500 feet and to measure corona current. It has been found that the probable stroke current decreases with increase of altitude from sea level to approximately 18,000 feet altitude at which point it appears that no current would be present. The highest mean temperatures at 18,000 feet do not exceed 32 degrees Fahrenheit, and comparison of temperatures in free air at altitudes up to 13,500 feet check temperatures on the earth's surface and indicate that freezing temperatures may limit the formation of lightning."
"THE development of interconnected systems has required improvements in the manual and automatic control of load, frequency, and time. The speed governors of the prime movers have always provided the medium for supplementary control of frequency, load, and time. Experience with various types of control devices and the factors influencing their functioning have been discussed frequently in the technical literature. Recently the problem has been given renewed attention1–5 with an effort to correlate experience with theory and to provide a basis for determining the proper characteristics of governors2 and their supplementary control."
"PEOPLE now have the utility in city transit which is so vital to the conduct of daily affairs. The streamlined PCC car, which gets its alphabetical name from the Presidents' Conference Committee sponsoring its development, provides a degree of excellence in public travel that has established a superior performance standard. Pittsburgh was one of the first cities to adopt this modern transit unit. A fleet of 301 cars is in operation and 100 additional vehicles are under construction. This is the largest installation of PCC cars, and, with a total of 401, there will be sufficient to operate base schedules on all street-car lines. Initial service dates back to August 1936, and the results are enlightening. Car maintenance has decreased 28 per cent, track and roadway maintenance has dropped 21 per cent, accidents per 10,000 car miles have come down 25 per cent, schedule car requirements have been lowered 10 per cent, and gross revenue has increased 8 per cent."
"THROUGH more than a score of years a variety of devices has been developed to simplify the procedure and to reduce the hazard of personal errors in the technique of watt-hour meter testing. Of these devices the stroboscope and the photoelectric timer have already become generally accepted tools of the meter-testing art. Indeed, meter-testing problems differ somewhat in the field, in the laboratory, and in the factory, and consequently, no single device nor combination of devices can be considered ideally applicable to all three forms of testing. However, in each case much is to be gained through the use in some form of the many schemes1,2 which have recently been developed. Such schemes apply equally to single-phase and polyphase meter testing, though in this discussion we shall be concerned only with the single-phase watt-hour meter and the testing problems peculiar to the factory. Briefly these problems are: 1. Removal of the hazard of personal error in testing. 2. Maintenance of closer control of quality. 3. Elimination of errors in portable standards through handling. 4. Reduction of skill required in testing. 5. Shortening of testing time. 6. Reduction of handling of meters. 7. Elimination of storage space for meters awaiting test. 8. Maintenance of a uniform flow of the product from assembly through to packing."
"THE single-phase electric locomotive is thought of quite generally as a piece of motive power for heavy traction service. To an electrical engineer, however, it consists fundamentally of electric motors geared to wheels with means for controlling the applied voltage to handle a variable load at varying speeds."
"FOR many years most of the machinery in American industrial plants has been driven electrically. During the past five or six years Diesel-electric drive has taken a definite place in moving raw materials to and finished products away from the manufacturing plants. This widespread use of electric power for locomotives has been brought about largely by two simultaneous developments."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THIS account is based upon experience gained during the Battle of Britain and in 1941, and is offered to members of the AIEE in an effort to help them, should they become responsible for restoring electricity supplies after air raids. It is realized that conditions in America and in Great Britain are not identical, but it is believed that they are so similar that American engineers will be well able to adapt British experience to their own problems. In any case, wherever high-explosive bombs fall, they always have the same effects. The subject matter has been divided into broad headings, which are thought to be the natural sub-divisions in the supply of electric energy to the consumer."
"Electrification of 207 track-miles of the meter-gauge Sorocabanca Railroad, owned by the state of Sao Paulo, Brazil, is now in progress, with equipment purchased in the United States. Work on the $10,000,000 project, which is being handled by a Brazilian construction firm, is expected to be completed in about three years."
"“WHOSOEVER shall compel thee to go one mile — go with him twain.” You will recognize this text from the Sermon on the Mount as a counsel of perfection, good advice in paradoxical form which emphasizes a profound truth by an apparent denial of common sense. A preacher who was once reproached for straying rather far from his text replied: “A text is like a gate; it has two uses — you can either swing on it, or open it and pass through.” Let us swing a moment, then pass on through. Every calling has its mile of compulsion, its daily round of tasks and duties, its standard of honest craftsmanship, its code of man-to-man relations, which one must cover if he is to survive. Beyond that lies the mile of voluntary effort, where men strive for excellence, give unrequited service to the common good, and seek to invest their work with a wide and enduring significance. It is only in this second mile that a calling may attain to the dignity and the distinction of a profession."
"LINEAR SYSTEMS in the general transient state may be analyzed effectively by means of the operational calculus, the Laplace transforms, or the Fourier transforms. Preceding articles in this series have introduced the operational calculus,1 the Laplace transforms,3 and certain essential mathematical ideas and processes pertaining to the manipulation of functions of a complex variable.2 The emphasis thus far has been on the analysis of systems involving known configurations of concentrated elements (resistance, inductance, and capacitance)."
"As already announced, the annual AIEE summer convention will be held in Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942, with convention headquarters in the Drake Hotel. The recommendation of the board of directors that because of the war the summer convention be made a working convention is reflected in the program arranged. Thus, in addition to the annual meeting, conference of officers, delegates, and members, and the general session, there are a total of 21 sessions and conferences scheduled during the mornings and afternoons. Attractive entertainment features have been arranged in the evenings, beginning with the president's reception and dance on Monday, which is sponsored by the Chicago Section. The women's entertainment committee is making arrangements for the entertainment of the visiting women during the convention."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"National planning now under way by the National Resources Planning Board for the postwar period has been outlined in a report recently transmitted to Congress by President Roosevelt. The broad objectives of this planning are stipulated to be “full employment, higher living standards, and economic security.” Excerpts from the report are presented here; contributions to the “Letters to the Editor” columns on this important topic are invited."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"IT is generally agreed that the virtual or air-gap voltage of a salient-pole synchronous machine determines the saturation in the magnetic circuit. Studies have indicated that the major portion of the saturation occurs in the poles of such machines. Consequently, it is logical to apply a correction as a linear addition to the nominal or excitation voltage vector of the two-reaction diagram drawn with unsaturated constants, in order to ascertain the actual per-unit excitation necessary under load conditions which produce a certain air-gap voltage. It is the purpose of this paper to present an analytical method for determining the necessary correction."
"THE use of compressed-air breakers for indoor service has become established by several field installations since the presentation of papers1,2 describing these devices two years ago. At that time complete tests had been made justifying ratings to 1,500,000 kva. Since then, powerhouse requirements have demanded the development of similar breakers for 2,500,000 kva. During the same interval new laboratory facilities have been provided3 which are capable of completely testing these large breakers. This paper describes the theory and construction of this new breaker and for the first time presents test results of full 2,500,000 kva under three-phase fault conditions, together with a study of associated voltage recovery rates."
"THE linear coupler transformer is a constant mutual reactance connecting the primary circuit to the relay. It introduces a new principle into the protective relaying art, a principle∗ that is fundamentally sound and that eliminates completely, at its source, the most troublesome problem that has been standing in the way of simple high-speed bus protection. That problem is saturation of the current transformers by the d-c transient current that flows for a number of cycles after the occurrence of a fault. Its solution consists of dispensing with the iron, a solution that appears so obvious on the face of it that it is fair to inquire why it was not adopted years ago. This paper might stop right here were it not for the answer to the last question."
"IN determining a system's capacity requirements for supplying the electric load — kilowatts and kilovars under all conditions of operation throughout the year — a comprehensive capacity and load study is necessary. This was particularly emphasized by two operating experiences on the system of the Public Service Electric and Gas Company. The first episode was a system voltage disturbance which occurred on October 30, 1938, and the second a system shutdown which occurred as a result of a 132-kv bus fault at Roseland switching station on July 11, 1940. Investigations of these operations introduced the following subjects for consideration: 1. The proper kilowatt and kilovar loading of individual generators, considering their economy, thermal, and stability characteristics. 2. The amount and distribution of various forms of kilovar capacity throughout the system. 3. Certain improvements in system protection, particularly with respect to more rapid fault removal and the maintenance of adequate backup protection. 4. Installation of certain tap-changing-under-load equipment to maintain bus voltages within certain limits and to make all generator kilovar capacity available to the system at all times. 5. And finally a more thorough analysis of the kilowatt and kilovar loads on the system."
"LARGE wind tunnels require a wide range of speed and accurate speed control and if their use factor is high, a high efficiency over the working range is desirable. Also minimum disturbance to the power system is important in many cases. To meet these requirements a speed-control system has been adopted which, while not new in principle, involved the solution of a number of interesting problems. The system as shown in Figure 1 consists of a wound-rotor driving motor (A) whose secondary winding feeds a synchronous motor (S1) driving a variable-speed d-c generator (DC1) which in turn drives a d-c — a-c set (DC2 and S2) to return most of the secondary power back to the line. The name “modified Kramer set” is suggested by the authors since the scheme involves conversion of the secondary power to d-c and field control for the speed changes as in the well-known Kramer set. The term “modified” was used because the Kramer set used a rotary converter and the d-c power was usually fed into a d-c motor on the same shaft as the main motor. Another descriptive name would be asynchronous-synchronous cascade."
"THOUGH electrical circuits from generator armature windings outward to utilization apparatus have received much attention from a protective viewpoint in the past 20 years, relatively little attention has been given to generator field-winding protection. Calculations show that loss of field in a large generator may cause serious voltage disturbance to the system. A need for some suitable protection method that will initiate disconnection of the troubled machine is indicated."
"Data have been obtained during the past three years on the magnitude and wave shape of lightning currents discharged by arresters in service on several solidly grounded neutral circuits of the American Gas and Electric Company system. Correlated measurements have been obtained with the cathode-ray oscillograph, the fulchronograph, and the surge-front recorder. The maximum arrester-phase leg current recorded in this investigation was 9,600 amperes with 70 per cent of the currents less than 1,000 amperes. The wave fronts of the low-magnitude currents were, in general, abrupt. For crest magnitudes of over 1,000 amperes they ranged from two to over 25 microseconds to crest. The maximum rate of rise recorded was 2,500 amperes per microsecond."
"THE intent of this paper is to present the comparative merits of the several typical forms of industrial plant electrical distribution systems presented with a view to the general adoption of that system which will, in the majority of cases, meet the overall requirements most effectively."
"THE factors involving current-transformer performance that affect the operation of protective equipment have recently received considerable attention.1–3 The fact that the transient performance may be greatly different from the steady-state performance has been recognized, but little quantitative data on transient performance have been published. Data from oscillograph records of tests and from approximate analytical methods have definitely indicated the magnitudes of the expected steady-state errors and at the same time conveyed the thought that the transient errors would be very much larger. This paper presents some of the results of a study of current-transformer transient performance that has been made on the differential analyzer with the effects of transformer saturation more accurately considered."
"SYNCHRONOUS machines, operating with a-c excitation on both stator and rotor are used in many applications, for example, as induction frequency converters, as power and instrument Selsyn drives, and as variable speed power drives. Reference 1 has mentioned particularly the variable speed fan drive, and presented equations for the small oscillations of one such doubly fed machine. Reference 2 has also previously given the equations of hunting of the doubly fed machine (part XIV, section IV) in connection with the general study of oscillations of rotating machines. However, since the present authors have been using in their own work equations which seem to them to be more convenient and simpler in form for calculations, and since it now seems desirable to present not only general equations but also some of the more fundamental and significant performance characteristics of these machines, it is thought that this paper may now be appropriate. The form of the equations developed possesses the additional novelty of facilitating the setting up of equivalent circuits for hunting on the a-c network analyzer, and allowing the quick determination of the damping and synchronizing torques directly by wattmeter readings."
"UNTIL recently the study of damping torque has been confined to synchronous machines and rotary converters. Operation of these machines without hunting has been obtained by the use of properly designed amortisseur or pole-face windings."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE WAR is bringing to engineers and other college people a completely new set of experiences. The colleges themselves will feel the most immediate effects, and these are already indicated by the much-discussed speed-up plans, and by the plans for inducting young men into the Navy, the Signal Corps, and other branches of the military service. The trend in college education indicates that a large percentage of those young people who normally would come into industry in the next few years will be diverted into military channels, and a decreasing number will be available to industry."
"THE ELECTRICAL engineer has been preparing for this war for 20 years or more, although he may not have been aware of it. He has been rapidly gaining knowledge in practically every branch of electrical engineering since World War I; and as this knowledge accumulated through research, experiment, and analysis, he has interpreted it into machines, devices, systems, and practices for peacetime or civilian use. Since early in the emergency period preceding the present war, his efforts have been shifted to the adaptation and application of this knowledge to war machines and practices."
"ALTHOUGH the United States has been formally at war for only a few months, fortunately wartime research in the United States began more than a year and a half ago."
"ELECTRICITY was first applied on a vessel in the United States Navy in 1883 when the cruiser Trenton was equipped with an Edison shunt-wound 13.2-kw 110-volt d-c generator for lighting purposes. From this very modest initial installation the use of electricity has increased to the point where a modern battleship has as much as 10,000 kw of generating capacity for auxiliary operation and lighting, and the largest aircraft carriers have generating plants of 160,000 kva for propulsion."
"THE USE of the Laplacian transformation in combination with tables of Fourier integrals reduces the solution of transmission-line problems to the same status as evaluating definite integrals by means of tables of integrals. Though this extension of operational methods is as yet unfamiliar to many, its great power, if once grasped, will rapidly increase its use."
"With the largest summer-convention technical program in the history of the Institute, the 1942 AIEE summer convention will be held in Chicago, Ill., June 22–26. Convention headquarters will be in the Drake Hotel. Beginning with the annual meeting on Monday morning, sessions will be held both mornings and afternoons through to Friday afternoon. In addition to the annual meeting and the conference of officers, delegates, and members, the program has been enlarged to include a total of 20 sessions and conferences scheduled during the mornings and afternoons. Approximately 60 technical papers are scheduled, besides addresses and informal conference presentations. Several of the sessions and many of the papers are more or less directly related to the war effort. The complete business and technical program appears on pages 312–13. The social program will take place entirely during the evenings, except for special entertainment for the women guests arranged by the women's entertainment committee. All trips are of an educational nature and the sports events have been limited to the annual competition for the Mershon cup and the Lee trophy."
"The outstanding success of the North Eastern District meeting held April 29–May 1, 1942, at the Van Curler Hotel in Schenectady, N. Y., should serve emphatically to set at rest the questions that have been raised as to the advisability of continuing AIEE meetings and conventions during prevailing wartime conditions. All technical and general sessions were notably well attended, and the total verified registration of 481 is the highest in more than ten years. An analysis of attendance and comparison with previous years are given in the accompanying tabulations. Attendance at technical sessions, including parallel sessions, ranged from 65 to 170, averaged nearly 100."
"That the engineering profession offers a great variety of opportunities for self-development and for vital service to the public was re-emphasized by National Secretary H. H. Henline in a brief address delivered before the opening general session of the recent North Eastern District meeting in Schenectady, N. Y. The essential substance of Mr. Henline's outline of his assigned topic, “AIEE Progress,” is given in the following paragraphs."
"At a conference during the recent North Eastern District meeting in Schenectady, the general topic “Conservation of Critical Materials by the Use of Substitutes,” was discussed — with reference to the telephone field by J. R. Townsend of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., New York, N. Y., and with reference to the manufacturing procedures of the General Electric Company by John Horn of the engineering general department of that company."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Finding some 20,000,000 workers and placing them in war production jobs is the huge task faced by the recently appointed War Manpower Commission of which Paul V. McNutt, Federal Security Administrator, has been appointed chairman. Other members of the commission and the agencies they represent are:"
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers; publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"THE performance of synchronous machines in steady-state operation, as well as in the transient state, is substantially determined by magnetic saturation in their iron circuits.13,14,20 It is well-known that high initial and sustained short-circuit currents develop under widely different conditions of saturation and that large capacitive loading is unstable but for the effect of saturation."
"THE object of this paper is to present the results of an analytical study of tie-line power control. This study was made as a logical development of the general subject of power system control. Previous work1,2 has indicated the general requirements of the prime-mover speed governors and the desirability of supplementary control to insure proper load division, frequency, and time. The general requirements of supplementary controls are given in the companion paper3 by Crary and McClure. In most cases these controls are satisfactorily obtained as rather slow corrective adjustments to the speed-governor mechanisms, but for certain types of load a more active tie-line load controller, which will tend to suppress transient load swings also, may be required. An example of this is a rapidly varying load, such as a strip mill supplied from local generation as well as from a tie to a larger power system, in which it may be desirable to keep the load variations off the tie line as much as possible."
"A SIMPLIFIED concept of the operation of the d-c Selsyn may be obtained by referring to Figure 1 which shows a coil wound on a toroidal iron core. This is a continuous single layer winding with two brushes supplying direct current at diametrically opposite points. It is evident that a magnetic pole will be set up in the core under each of the brushes, and that the magnetic field inside the core will be as shown. This field will follow the brushes as they are rotated. If a polarized permanent magnet rotor is placed inside the core, it will revolve so as to keep its direction of magnetization in line with the brushes."
"FROM the viewpoint of utility, the scale length of an indicating instrument bears somewhat the same relationship to its dimensions as does the output of a motor to its frame size. The end product of an instrument is quantitative information. The longer and more legible the scale, the more definite the resulting scale readings, through reduction of observational errors both in the initial calibration and in subsequent use. Thus, instrument designers have endeavored to produce maximum scale lengths within a given space, examples of which are 5-inch scales of 6-inch rectangular switchboard instruments, and the 3 1/2-inch scales of 4-inch rectangular instruments. In general, however, the movements of such instruments have been restricted to an angular deflection of about 90 degrees, with consequent limitation in scale lengths as compared to the scale lengths of non-electrical instruments such as steam and pressure gauges. A study of these fundamentals leads the authors, who attacked the problem of designing a new line of switchboard instruments, to the conclusion that a definite contribution to measurement technique could best be made by designing such instruments for long-range indication, and the smallest practicable panel space."
"THE magnetic-field strength at any given point near a circular cylindrical coil or solenoid in a nonmagnetic medium requires various formulas for its determination, depending on the shape of the solenoid and the position of the point. Formulas are required for the axial component of the magnetic field, called Hx in this paper, and other formulas are needed for the radial component, Hr."
"REQUIRED: A voltage regulator which weighs less than one-fifth its nearest relative in the industrial field, and a reverse-current cutout weighing less than one-sixth an industrial contactor of equivalent current rating. Such were some general requirements of the generator voltage regulator and cutout whose design and development are described in this paper. This development involved a careful combination of electrical and mechanical engineering principles and necessitated continuous attention being paid to the application requirements. The magnitude of the design problem involved is emphasized by stating that in addition to all those problems normally encountered there are the problems created by the prime requirements of low weight and small size, as well as those created by atmospheric conditions. In this paper the voltage-regulator is taken up first, and this is followed by the reverse-current cutout."
"IN recent years many new or improved kinds of apparatus have been made available for increasing the reliability of transmission circuits. These include high-speed relays, high interrupting speed breakers, ground-fault neutralizers, protector tubes, and high-speed reclosing breakers. Though they may be used in combination, ground-fault neutralizers, protector tubes, and high-speed reclosing breakers offer alternate methods for reducing the outages on the transmission circuit. The reliable loading of a transmission circuit may also be increased by introducing intermediate switching stations and by increasing the interrupting speeds of existing breakers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THIS paper extends the contribution on grounds of the first paper1 in the following directions: experimentally, theoretically, and from the application standpoint."
"The use of high-capacity d-c generators on aircraft has required the development of regulators with rapid response, high accuracy, and with features for parallel operation of variable speed machines. The fundamental requirements of light weight, ability to withstand shock and vibration, and to give low radio interference were vital factors considered in the development. A device incorporating these features is described and analyzed. Results of tests on these equipments have shown that regulators with these features are vital to the operation of the electrical loads of modern planes, both the military and commercial types. The tests show that the requirements have been met with devices suited to high production methods."
"A discussion of a magnetic-drag-tachometer equipment designed principally for aircraft use. The principle of operation makes possible an indicator which may be read very accurately under extreme conditions of aircraft use and at the same time may be easily adjusted and maintained. Because of the extreme reading accuracy obtainable, low inherent temperature errors and good compensation are essential. A method of obtaining these features is presented."
"This paper describes short approximate methods for the solution of several types of intangible problems which require load-curve analyses. Laborious effort may be expended in compiling results from a group of curves without greater precision than is believed possible to obtain from the use of one or a few synthetic curves which combine the characteristics under investigation, and permit the determination of such items as peak loads, losses, and required capacities of equipment."
"This paper discusses those fundamentals of acoustics which are important in attacking practical problems in noise reduction. A description is given of the instruments suitable for measuring the physical quantities involved. The train problem is analyzed, and data taken by the author on a relatively quiet type of coach are presented. The various methods of noise control which may be applied to a coach are discussed, and data are presented indicating the possibilities of each method."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The electric system governing lights, signals, and controls for an airport with the area and traffic volume of the Municipal Airport at Chicago, Ill., presents problems not only in design, but in adapting to special conditions the standards specified by the Civil Aeronautics Administration for all United States airports. The results represent the latest practice, and include a number of unusual developments."
"Possible relationships of the cyclotron to future engineering developments are considered in this article, which describes the development of atomic accelerating devices, the operating principle and construction of a typical cyclotron, and the uses to which it is now being put."
"Our earliest knowledge of electricity was of the static kind; later came the voltaic cell and direct current. But not until the discovery of alternating or oscillating currents could the phenomenon of electrical resonance make its appearance, Today, as we turn the dials of our radio receivers and “tune in” on the station we want it is recognized how widespread the application of electrical resonance has become. Nevertheless, it seems that few have given thought as to how this important principle came to light and how and when it came into common use."
"Experience and previous laboratory investigations have indicated the existence of wind-shielding effects in groups of parallel conductors of distribution lines, in which the leeward conductors are shielded by the windward conductors. This article reports the results of wind-tunnel tests to determine the magnitude of the factors controlling the wind-loading on groups of parallel conductors."
"Arrangements are being made for the Pacific Coast Convention which will be held in Vancouver, B. C., September 9–11, 1942. Convention headquarters will be in the Hotel Vancouver."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its 58th annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1942. A general balance sheet showing the condition of the Institute's finances on April 30, 1942, together with other detailed financial statements, is included herein. This report contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in Electrical Engineering."
"At the request of the War Production Board, American engineering societies are holding a series of war-production conferences “to exchange, examine, and disseminate information and experience on the engineering and management aspects of war-production problems, and the changeover of plants and equipment to war production.” The first conference was held May 29, 1942, at Newark, N. J.; it was sponsored jointly by the local sections of 14 technical and engineering societies, including the AIEE New York Section, and the New Jersey Council. Approximately 750 attended. Other conferences, sponsored by other local engineering groups, are being held in other sections of the United States. Each conference is being arranged to fit the particular needs of the area in which it is held, and the discussion leaders come from war plants in that area."
"Four leading war-agency officials recently joined in a statement designed to clarify the facts about the severe rubber shortage. Issued because many confusing and conflicting stories have been circulated about rubber, the statement points out that the shortage is extremely serious, reports to the contrary notwithstanding, and that no rubber of any kind can be spared for purposes not directly connected with the war effort."
"Presents a facsimile of notice by the London Board of Trade approving the use of the Atkinson-Schattner maximum-demand indicator, wherein it states: For the purposes of the Electric Lighting Acts, 1882 and 1888, and of the Electric Lighting (Scotland) Act, 1890, and all Provisional Orders and Licences made and issued thereunder, the Board of Trade approve of the pattern and construction of the indicator (hereinafter described) for the measurement of electrical quantity when supplied on the constant potential continuous or alternating current system, namely: The Atkinson Schattner Maximum Demand Indicator deposited at the Board of Trade on the 3rd of June, 1903."
"THE protection of a motor against an overload or the protection of a motor and its branch circuit against a short circuit are basically the same problem. The entire circuit is heated at a rate which is a function of the amount of current flowing, and this current must be interrupted before the winding or any part of the circuit exceeds a prescribed temperature. The means used to protect against these two magnitudes of power may be the same, or it may be entirely different as will be brought out later. It is the purpose of this article to show what the heating characteristics are of the motors, the control, and the branch circuit wiring, and what the characteristics of the protective devices should be in order that the power will be disconnected from the main feeders under all conditions of excess current before excess temperatures are attained."
"Selenium rectifiers are dry-plate rectifiers of the electronic type. The history of dry rectifiers began some 30 years ago with the advent of the copper-sulphide rectifier. In the early 20's, the copper-oxide type came into common use, and during the past three years, selenium rectifiers have found wide application in American industry. Fundamentally, this third and latest type of rectifier is a continental development and has been manufactured in Europe within the International Telephone and Telegraph group of companies during most of the 1930's. Sufficient experience was gained in the technique of manufacture, as well as in methods of design and in selection of applications, to warrant engineering statements as to their general usefulness and importance to industry."
"ANYONE reading several articles on the subject of rectifiers must be impressed by the confusion caused by a lack of exact terminology. This paper presents definitions of a few terms representing the most important concepts arising in the rectifier field. The definitions are presented with the hope that they will be found sufficiently useful to be widely adopted. Constructive criticism of the terms and definitions is invited."
"Temperature-aging data are presented on class-A-insulated fractional-horsepower motor stators, determined at 200, 160, and 135 degrees centigrade. Of particular interest is the relative aging time to failure at the different temperatures and the resultant temperature-aging curve. This curve shows a slope of 10 to 15 degrees centigrade increase in temperature to halve the aging time to failure in the temperature range covered, 135 to 200 degrees centigrade."
"In the preceding papers1 of this series a method was described for determining the circle diagram and predicting the characteristics for the brush-shifting motor as it is used when the brushes are shifted to control speed. This paper extends the earlier work to show how the motor can be used to correct power factor. The range and limitations for this condition of operation are revealed from the circle diagram of the motor which has been developed and verified experimentally. Characteristics of the motor when used in this manner are presented."
"The preceding papers of this series presented an analysis of the brush-shifting a-c motor. Parts I and II dealt with the case when the voltage introduced into the stator coils from the commutator was collinear with the voltage induced in the stator coils by slip. Part III dealt with the case when the voltage introduced into the stator coils from the commutator was in quadrature with the induced voltage. This paper extends the earlier analysis to include all the possible phase positions of the voltage introduced into the stator coils from the commutator. Under these conditions power factor and speed are controlled simultaneously. Methods for constructing the circle diagram for these conditions are given, and the characteristics of the motor predicted from the circle diagram are compared with the characteristics obtained by laboratory tests."
"THE concentric arrangement of tubular conductors to carry heavy alternating currents gives compactness, low reactance drop, and reduced loss from skin effect or crowding of the current to the surface of the conductors. This arrangement is being used to a considerable extent.12 In this paper formulas and curves are given to enable the reactance and the skin-effect resistance ratio of such conductors to be determined for three-phase and single-phase circuits."
"THE tremendous expansion of production facilities necessitated by American defense and war efforts has given the manufacturer of electrical equipment a serious challenge. Entire large defense projects, such as manufacturing plants, navy yards, drydocks, air depots, and office buildings, have been built in incredibly short times. Any one of these projects will not be complete without an electrical distribution system. One of the many tasks before the electrical manufacturer is to produce the necessary apparatus for the electrical distribution systems, and have it available by the time the project is ready to receive it."
"Coaxial cables insulated with solid dielectric are used for transmitting electric energy over wide ranges of frequency. During the development of such cables it was important to be able to predict the characteristics of finished cable by calculations based upon the known dimensions and physical properties of the conductors and the insulation. Many comparatively simple formulas were known to be valid at high frequency, but their applicability at lower frequencies was questioned."
"AMONG the methods available for determining losses and efficiencies of electric machines, many have been developed to their utmost capabilities. Some measure individual losses separately and with good accuracy,1–10 but many have inherent drawbacks. There still remains the desirability of a satisfactory over-all test which will rate the performance of all sizes of machinery under actual conditions of loading and yet yield highly accurate results. This aim is largely met by the calorimetric method and is justified by its basic character. A simplification of the classical testing technique can be introduced in which the important measurements are all electrical. By this means, accurate measurements of heat values are obviated, and the calorimeter becomes in reality only a comparator for a substitution process. Test results of calorimetric measurements on small induction and d-c motors show excellent agreement with other tests on the same machines. Analysis of the method indicates that it is equally applicable to all classes of machines of any size and that it can be used more generally for over-all loss and efficiency measurements under loaded conditions."
"The paper summarizes some 15 years' experience with the high-side fusing of 11-, 22-, and some 66-kv transformer banks. The original purpose of fusing has through this experience been expanded to cover functions that are deemed desirable, and the authors feel that their approach to the specific protection field served by fuses has resulted in satisfactory protection at minimum cost. The results of some faults occurring infused and unfused banks are described briefly, and the various factors taken into consideration in selecting the proper fuse to use are discussed. The conclusions drawn are that fuses, when applicable, are a satisfactory economical means of obtaining reasonable coverage for faults in and beyond transformer banks."
"The extension of the conventional network system to industrial plants has established requirements for a higher-voltage limiter. The network system has been adopted as a standard by many utilities for 120–208-volt distribution, whereas industrial-plant distribution is usually at higher voltages up to 600 volts due to the predominance of power load. The requirements of a limiter for this service are more severe, due to the proximity of operating personnel and increased interrupting duty associated with higher voltages and shorter cable runs. A new totally enclosed limiter has been developed for this application. This limiter embodies new principles of operation and will interrupt fault currents in excess of 50,000 amperes at 600 volts without perceptible noise or visible demonstration."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The engineer's last, to which he must stick if he is to make the maximum contribution to the postwar world, is defined by Retiring President Prince as working out the plans for a peacetime production of goods and services comparable to our wartime production, which would provide “not merely sustenance and military protection, but comfort and security for our entire population.”"
"AWARDED annually for “meritorious achievement in the development of electrical apparatus or machinery,” the AIEE Lamme Medal was conferred for 1941 upon Forrest Eugene Ricketts (A'16), vice-president of the Consolidated Gas Electric Light and Power Company, Baltimore, Md., at the recent AIEE summer convention at Chicago, Ill."
"Benjamin Garver Lamme is a great engineer. The present tense is used with intention, because, whatever one's belief in immortality, there can be no doubt that his spirit lives with us in the bequest of his substance and the inspiration of his mind. So well expressed by the Lamme Medalist of 1938, Marion A. Savage, who said, “All engineers who have to design electrical machinery honor the name of Benjamin G. Lamme, who did so much to advance the designing art. It was my good fortune to know Mr. Lamme personally. His kindly nature, remarkable memory, and keen mind were an inspiration to a young engineer.”"
"I wish to express my appreciation of the honor that has been conferred on me by the Institute in awarding me the Lamme Medal for 1941. Naturally, I had been somewhat aware of my contributions to the industry, but I had not realized that they might be of special interest to the Institute. In the past, the awarding of the medal has always suggested achievement and progress to me. Now, I have a more complex reaction to the event, and I am not able to resolve my feelings clearly. At any rate, the award is particularly gratifying to me, because it has encouraged me to entertain the idea that I also may have contributed to the progress of the electrical industry. Realizing, as no one else can, how the turning points of my life depended upon chance events, I feel as thought I were being honored for being lucky."
"The engineering genius that has given the United States the world's highest living standards in peacetime can put into war materials the speed factor needed to overcome the inefficiency that is part of the price of democracy, according to this engineering educator, who believes our production experts will convert “too little and too late” into “enough and on time.” The extra costs to us as a nation and as individuals of having to make up quickly for our neglect of defense are part of the price we must pay in order that in normal times we may order our lives as we will."
"The present demand for trained individuals with good health and surplus energy has placed a new and greater emphasis on all phases of education. In this changed world, we are recognizing the need for reformulating the objectives of our educational system, for considering such departures as, for example, the provision of programs based on the aptitudes of the individual student and terminating when the limits of those aptitudes are reached instead of at four-year intervals. The opinions of some nationally known educators and employers of college graduates are cited in this article, which may be regarded as a straw in the wind."
"Brazil is one of the richest countries in the world in potential hydraulic or water power. It has been estimated that the potential hydraulic power of Brazil is over 14,000,000 kw, and only about 739,000 has been utilized. According to statistics compiled by the World Power Conference, Brazil ranks fourth in hydraulic power. Russia ranks first, with 58,000,000 kw, the United States is second with 25,000,000, kw, and Canada is third with 19,000,000 kw. Statistics are based on discharge during a low water season."
"First I wish to say a word of my appreciation of the great honor of being elected president of the Institute. The office is one of great distinction because it has been adorned by so many of the great names of our profession and also because the AIEE today is a great and very vital institution. Its greatness and vitality come not from size alone but are the result of the activities of thousands of members who express their interest in Institute affairs by carrying out its extensive program."
"Arrangements are in progress for the program of the Pacific Coast convention, which will be held in Vancouver, B. C, September 9–11, 1942. Convention headquarters will be in the Hotel Vancouver."
"Any lingering questions as to the value of or interest in AIEE convention programs and the opportunities offered thereby for the first-hand discussion of wartime engineering problems should be dissipated conclusively by the results of the recent summer convention in Chicago. As at the recent Northeastern District meeting at Schenectady, N. Y., the attendance set records for recent years, and participation in the various discussions and conferences was active."
"The annual conference of officers, delegates, and members was held on the afternoon of June 23, 1942, during the recent AIEE summer convention at Chicago, Ill., with M. S. Coover, chairman of the Sections committee, presiding. A report on the Engineers' Council for Professional Development was a feature of the meeting, which opened with a talk by AIEE President D. C. Prince. Reports were presented by the chairmen of the Sections committee and the technical program committee, and the meeting concluded with extensive open discussion on two main themes — the timely subject of Section activities to aid the war effort, and the perennial topics of attendance at Section meetings and relations between Sections and Student Branches."
"At the AIEE summer convention conference of officers, delegates, and members on June 23, 1942, Chicago, Ill., “What the Sections Can Do to Assist ECPD” was the subject of an address by J. F. Fairman (F'35) AIEE representative on Engineers' Council for Professional Development. The essential substance of the talk, which was delivered by E. S. Lee (F'30) in the absence of Mr. Fairman, is as follows:"
"An innovation in Institute convention programs which attracted marked interest was the general session of the summer convention Thursday morning, June 25, 1942, on the subject of “The Organization and Management of Large-Scale Engineering Works” at which President D. C. Prince presided. Reflecting the increasing degree to which engineers are taking on managerial functions, various aspects of engineering organization were presented by executives representing communications, electrical manufacturing, and public utilities."
"Six conferences, on widely varying subjects but all connected in some way with the war effort, were included in the program of the AIEE summer convention, held at Chicago, Ill., June 22–26, 1942. The conference on lighting aids to wartime production is reported elsewhere in these pages. The other conferences dealt with local engineering councils, particularly in relation to war activities and postwar planning; with educational matters under war conditions; with power supply for the war program; with electronic control of resistance welding, and with measurements of surface finish, both the latter being related to processes significant in war production. Brief reports high lighting the proceedings of these four conferences follow."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Pointing out the necessity for priorities in brain power as well as in war materials, Brigadier General William O. Hotchkiss, deputy director, Army Specialist Corps, spoke at the annual meeting of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education on June 27, 1942, at New York, N. Y., on the formation and function of the Army Specialist Corps. The text of his address follows: Recently I heard an experienced Army officer state emphatically that our most valuable asset is man power. I agreed with him heartily and added that that part of our man power with highly trained brain power was the most precious of all. We have read frequently of “bottlenecks” in the supply of steel plates for ships, or of engines for airplanes, or of tanks and guns. We have rarely seen in print the real bottleneck, which was that there were not enough men with the proper quantity and quality of brain power working on the problem in time. Every instance of “too little and too late” in ships, in supplies, and in munitions can be stated in terms of too little and too late application of trained brains to the problem."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"NATURAL lightning is very destructive and so elusive that it cannot readily be used for testing. However, the behavior of materials or equipment which are subject to lightning may be studied with artificial lightning from the impulse generator. In impulse testing of insulation strength, it is necessary to control only the wave shape and magnitude of the impulse voltage. There are numerous papers1–5 describing methods of producing and measuring impulse voltages, and other papers1,2,6–9 show how to calculate the circuit constants required to produce such waves."
"THE ignitron offers unique possibilities as a control element for high instantaneous alternating demand currents. The demand current is limited only by the capacity of the ionized vapor to conduct the current from the mercury pool to the anode and by probability of arc back, which increases as the peak current conducted by the tube increases. The design of ignitron tubes is a compromise between these two factors. Design for low arc-back rate usually results in anode baffles and shields which tend to increase the deionizing properties of the tube and thus decrease the peak current-carrying capacity."
"THIS oscillograph was designed to meet the specialized needs of a group that uses the cathode-ray oscillograph as the principal tool in the study of transients in-lightning-arrester development. The instrument is desirable for many purposes, especially those requiring very high writing speeds in connection with nonrepetitive transients where photographic records must be obtained. Other requirements of primary importance in the design were convenience of operation; accuracy of measurement of current, voltage, and time; accuracy of the timing; and linearity and rectilinearity of the plate pattern."
"Various electrical standards are reviewed from the viewpoint of the selection and interpretation of ambient temperature values. Equivalent aging temperatures for insulation have been calculated from recorded ambient temperature data for several typical outdoor and indoor locations. From these the suitability of ambient values now used for the establishment of temperature rises for rating purposes is discussed. These values seem to be well chosen, but some clarification in meaning and in methods of using them for rating and application purposes is desirable. For apparatus rated on a 40 degrees centigrade ambient basis, appreciable margins in permissible temperature rise exist under many conditions and for many places of application. Permissible increases in loading for certain motors without exceeding conservative hot-spot temperatures are suggested, subject to the limitations imposed by other operating considerations."
"In the search for means for measuring the properties of natural lightning much can be learned from the evidence left at points struck by lightning. This paper deals principally with such evidence and the process of evaluating the characteristics of the lightning strokes responsible for the evidence."
"Abnormal currents in distribution transformers due to lightning are analyzed both theoretically and from field experiences. Under certain conditions of direct stroke transferred through the arrester to the neutral of the secondary winding, excessive currents may wreck the secondary windings by electromagnetic forces. Long-duration surges, or shorter repeated surges, saturate the transformer cores producing greatly increased surge currents in the primary windings which influence fuse failures. The saturation of the cores by unidirectional lightning surges also brings about increased power-frequency magnetizing currents influencing sectionalizing-fuse and circuit-breaker operations."
"Electronic devices are used extensively for switching, relaying, welding, and similar service resulting in intermittent loads. In the paper methods for assigning standard ratings suitable for such intermittent loads are investigated, both for single-anode tubes and tube circuit combinations. Vapor-filled tubes with oxide-coated filaments are treated somewhat in detail in order to develop the basic considerations. Other types of tubes, such as the pool-type and cold-cathode, are only briefly discussed. A method of rating which seems generally applicable is proposed, with the suggestion that its suitability for the great variety of conditions encountered be further investigated."
"Several circuits are available for excitation of ignitron rectifiers. Static magnetic-impulse circuits are used for most applications. Several such circuits are discussed in some detail. Ignitor requirements are given, and circuit requirements affecting the choice of excitation circuits are indicated. While ignitor failures are rare, they should be detected promptly to utilize all apparatus to the best advantage. Two conditions may arise 1. When two anodes operate in parallel from a single transformer winding. 2. When a single anode is connected to each transformer winding. Means for detecting ignitor misfiring are described for both conditions."
"THE mechanical forces acting on bus-bar supports during short circuit are determined in some measure by all of the following: The magnitude and decrement factor of the short-circuit current. The mutual electromagnetic forces exerted among the individual conductors. The natural frequencies, motional resistance, and physical arrangement of the bus-bar structures."
"The versatility of the carbon arc as a source of both visible and invisible radiation is shown to be due, in part, to the three basic types of operation to which it is adapted and also to the fact that the character of its energy emission can be modified by changes in core composition. It is used in its various forms for many photochemical and irradiation processes, some of which require specific bands of ultraviolet radiation or close reproduction of the effects of natural sunlight. The carbon arc is preferred in other instances, because the optical requirements of the application necessitate a light source of small area and extreme brilliancy. Several industrial and commercial uses are cited together with the characteristics which give preference to the carbon arc as a source of radiation."
"A new type of d-c instrument is described in this paper. It comprises a diametrically magnetized cylindrical moving-magnet element, a hollow copper damping cylinder surrounding the moving element, a fixed coil, control magnets having a very high coercive force, and an enclosing magnetic shield made of mumetal. The field of the control magnet and the field of the fixed coil have a relatively large angular displacement. The angular position of the vector sum of these fields varies with the current through the coil, and the moving element follows this vector. The scale distribution is nearly uniform for a 90-degree scale. The characteristics compare favorably in many respects with those of a D'Arsonval instrument."
"Sleet storms, or more properly ice storms, have always presented serious difficulties to the operators of overhead electric conductors of all classes. For more than 25 years some electric-power companies have been using the circulation of electric current to heat the conductors, either to melt off the ice or to prevent it from forming. The technique of such procedure is well-known and will not be dealt with in this paper, other than to present fundamental theoretical data. Electrified railroads operating with overhead contact systems have similar ice storm problems, and, in addition, a number of special problems caused by such ice. These problems are outlined in this paper, and some means which have been used or proposed for their solution are described. Operating experience with one special application to a case of severe exposure to ice storms and high wind velocities is cited. Some of these special railroad problems have not yet been satisfactorily solved."
"IN the past decade the advantages of the rectifier, when compared to other forms of conversion equipment, have led to the development of multianode steel tank and glass-bulb rectifiers. The desirable structural features and operating characteristics, however, have not been fully realized when pump-evacuated tanks and fragile glass-bulb rectifiers have been applied to small conversion units of low-voltage rating. Development of a means of starting or igniting1 a cathode spot, each positive half cycle, on a pool of mercury has stimulated the design of a practicable half-wave or single-anode rectifier. The low density of ionization during the inverse cycle so reduced the shielding necessary to prevent arcback and, in consequence, the arc losses, that these rectifiers could be efficiently applied in the lower-voltage (250 volts d-c) fields."
"EXPERIENCE has shown that preventive lightning protection, involving the installation of overhead ground wires and the co-ordination of tower-ground resistances with insulation level, can be quite effective in preventing flashovers due to lightning. Studies presented in an earlier paper1 indicated that the efficiency of preventive protection can be made practically 100 per cent for high-voltage lines having insulator flashover levels of 1,600 kv and above. If the flashover level is reduced, the efficiency of protection becomes less."
"ELECTRIC control is a necessity in the operation of the modern steam boiler if the boiler is expected to have maximum efficiency, safety in operation, and constant operation at the various outputs required. Installation and operating conditions vary over a wide range; therefore, to meet these conditions the controls used differ in type and quantity in order to supply those actually needed for good operation, as well as those required to comply with rules and regulations under which the installations are permitted. Generally, the method of operation of such boilers can be classified in two categories, namely, automatic and semiautomatic, and these two classes will be discussed in this article."
"THE fluorescent lamp is one of the recent and rapidly growing additions to the field of electronic devices. In order to understand properly the characteristics of the fluorescent lamp, it is necessary just as with other electronic devices, to know something about the fundamental principles of operation. It is the purpose of this paper to describe the operating principles of this type of lamp, both as an electrical conductor and as a radiation generator. Following a brief outline of the properties of radiant energy as they concern lamp design, a description is given of the phenomena occurring in the separate regions of the lamp. The final section of the paper is concerned with the over-all characteristics of the lamp considered primarily as a circuit element."
"FOR many years rectifiers of the garage type were used in converting alternating current to direct current for charging batteries used for communication purposes. These batteries furnish power for relay operation, for talking, and filament and plate supplies for repeaters. The rectifiers were of the manual-control type where the operator selected the charging current by means of tap switches or rheostats."
"IMPREGNATED-paper insulation, as used in high-voltage power cables, is subject, during the ordinary processes of manufacture, transportation, installation, and operation, to a wide variety of conditions, nearly all of which militate against the conservation of the original inherent properties of the insulation. Among these conditions are bending and other mechanical stresses, expansion and contraction due to temperature changes, original variations in manufacturing processes of drying and evacuation, and so forth. As a consequence, the electrical characteristics of the insulation of high-voltage cables, as for example power factor, dielectric loss, dielectric strength, and stability, all fall noticeably below those of samples prepared in the laboratory and generally are not subject to all the disturbing conditions mentioned above."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Experience of the United States Army Ordnance Department in applying quality-control techniques to wartime production of munitions has conclusively demonstrated the value of the method, according to an officer in the Department."
"Based on the belief that boys interested in engineering should have an opportunity to do practical work at the same time that they are learning the elements of mathematics and science, technical-high-school curricula, as exemplified in Mont Pleasant Technical High School, Schenectady, N. Y., have proved very successful in preparing students for work in local industries. The same courses have also shown their effectiveness as preparation for engineering college."
"A photoelectric block-signal system controls the traffic of men and materials which constantly flows in both directions in the 13-mile-long $50,000,000 Continental Divide Tunnel now being drilled between Grand Lake and Estes Park, Colo. Part of the Colorado-Big Thompson project of the United States Bureau of Reclamation, this tunnel will bring water from the western slope of the Continental Divide to the eastern side, where it will be used for irrigation and the production of electric power."
"To conserve critical materials which would be necessary to build new plants and to save the time required for construction, existing manufacturing plants are being pressed into service for war production. Many of these plants have inadequate lighting facilities. This article suggests that present lighting sources in such plants be supplemented by placing at strategic working points high-intensity fluorescent local lighting with light-hoods or reflectors. These reflectors, no longer made of steel because of wartime restriction, are now being formed successfully from fibrous materials."
"Some of the characteristics of electricity when the frequency of alternation reaches the range of billions of cycles per second are discussed in relation to the physical pictures of basic electrical concepts, such as current flow along conductors, in tubes, and in circuits which are being evolved by engineers in the high-frequency field. As applied to high-frequency phenomena, some of these concepts now are being modified or broadened in order that more accurate pictures may be obtained."
"In a time when values need to be clearly defined, the expressions of several eminent engineers on the distinguishing characteristics of the profession are here presented and analyzed."
"Modern powder metallurgy has two principal uses: the cheap and efficient mass production of machine parts that do not require high strength, and the creation of alloys with special properties. Both uses are described and the development of the process is reviewed."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on August 7, 1942."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In accord with its new concentration policy — designed to co-ordinate more effectively our military and economic objectives — the War Production Board has announced the reorganization of its administrative and operational work under new heads."
"Donald M. Nelson announced recently that the War Production Board has approved the principle of concentration of industry as a means of alleviating the strain placed on the civilian economy by the war effort. In approving this principle, the board also approved certain broad policies governing the way in which concentration will be made effective."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"The Consolidated Edison Company made a series of tests to determine the cause and extent of system load swings on generators and tie feeders. The results were reported in detail in a previous paper.1 An analysis of these tests indicated ways in which our load dispatching methods could be improved. This paper reports the effect of the changes in the method. Our experience indicates that the operators may reduce tie and generator load swings to negligible values by using frequency to control manual adjustments of generator output, provided that an accurate frequency indication is available at each generating station."
"This paper shows the importance of switching time as an initial condition for the current in a simple nonlinear series circuit with a saturable inductor. It is also shown that initial flux linkages in the inductor have an important effect on the current response during the first few cycles after closing the switch. It is emphasized that all experimental work was done with voltages below the critical ferroresonant voltage."
"THE Consumers Power Company operates an extensive 140-kv system in eastern, southern, and western Michigan. In parts the top soil is sand, sometimes extending to a considerable depth, and tower footings in this soil have very high resistance compared with resistance encountered in other soils."
"A RECENT paper by Dickey, Kilgore, and Laffoon described an installation consisting of a 40,000-horse-power wound rotor induction motor and the necessary auxiliary equipment required to provide for variable speed operation.1"
"PLANTATION Pipe Line Company's new 1,254-mile pipe line system is the largest ever built for the handling of refined petroleum products and is the largest all-electric-powered pipe line in existence. First full-length delivery was made early in February 1942, and immediately the line became an important factor in the transportation of gasoline and fuel oils to a large area in the southeastern states. Compared to the usual pipe line, this system operates under highly exacting conditions, and in its design the electrical and associated control features are of prime importance. The major electrification problems were:"
"THIS paper reviews the problem of protecting pilot-wire circuits, briefly discusses the sources of disturbing voltages, describes two types of neutralizing transformers, and illustrates how they are used to distribute the disturbing voltage most favorably throughout the pilot-wire circuit. The recent increase in use of high-speed pilot-wire relays for the protection of important power circuits has accentuated the need of better understanding of the pilot-wire protection problem. Therefore, a review of this general subject and a description of a new type of neutralizing transformer with mathematical formulas to determine its effectiveness, is considered timely."
"THE oil-filled type of high-voltage paper-insulated cable has been used on all extra high-voltage underground installations now in service in this country. While the major portion of these installations operates at oil pressures under 30 pounds per square inch, several of the shorter ones utilize oil pressures up to 200 pounds per square inch (“oilostatic” type). Although an alternate system1 in which a high gas pressure is applied externally to the lead sheath has been in commercial service abroad since 1932, it was not until recently that this type of cable, known as compression cable, received serious study here. In 1939 the Detroit Edison Company found that a system employing a welded steel pipe line offered a number of advantages over the conventional duct installation under the conditions existing over the route of a projected 120-kv underground circuit. For this reason the companies with which the authors are associated initiated an intensive laboratory and field investigation of the technical characteristics of several systems employing a steel pipe. The present paper describes some of the more interesting results of the technical investigation on the compression cable system."
"THIS paper deals with the theory, manufacture, and testing of high-pressure gas-filled cable and describes an experimental installation by the Detroit Edison Company in co-operation with the General Cable Corporation and a subsequent commercial installation on the Detroit Edison system."
"THE existence of transient recovery-voltage phenomena in connection with the interruption of short circuits by circuit breakers has been recognized for a number of years, and from time to time measurements and calculations have been made on actual field circuits.2,5 However, while these more or less isolated and scattered instances have provided some valuable information, they have not afforded a comprehensive picture of transient-recovery voltage conditions existing in the field."
"IN periods of high industrial activity transformer loads are generally high, and it is essential that operators know what overloads they can carry safely in emergencies. In order to do this effectively, it is necessary to know what temperatures will be reached after various overloads for different durations of time and the effects of temperature and time on the dielectric and mechanical strength of the insulation. If limitations between these things and the degree of insulation deterioration can be established, it is possible to make recommendations for safe overload times and temperatures."
"IT has been almost universal practice to use highly polished sapphire jewel bearings, cut approximately in the form shown by Figure la, in electric indicating instruments. Such a jewel is commonly known as a “Vee.” The other member of the bearing is a cone-shaped piece of hardened steel or other hard metal also accurately cut and highly polished. Figures 2 and 3 show both the common proportions of these parts and the clearances involved. Figure 2 shows an instrument which has the moving shaft vertical, and Figure 3 an instrument with the moving shaft horizontal. Figure 4a shows typical moving systems and jewel settings."
"In the application of differential relays the need for a supervising relay which will detect the existence of a single-phase-to-ground fault condition to the exclusion of all others has frequently arisen. Heretofore, the only scheme available has been to utilize a relay energized by zero-sequence quantities. Generally, the relay has been energized by a current transformer connected in the station ground. Such a relay, however, will also detect the existence of a two-phase-to-ground fault and only partially solves the problem. The new relay described in this paper derives its operating force from the zero-sequence voltage at the bus and is restrained by the negative-sequence voltage at the bus. The addition of properly proportioned negative-sequence restraint provides the relay with a means of recognizing a single-phase-to-ground fault only. It is applicable on those systems where the zero-sequence impedance of the system exceeds the negative-sequence impedance by a reasonable margin."
"A DEVICE which often occurs in electric machines and instruments consists of a relatively thin conducting disk rotating between the pole pieces of a permanent magnet or electromagnet. The author has received inquiries as to the method of calculating the paths of the eddy currents and the torque in such cases. The following rather simple method, which is quite accurate for a permanent magnet, seems not to be described in the literature. It assumes that the disk is so thin that the skin effect can be neglected. This is true for all frequencies that can be produced mechanically. To facilitate calculation in the special case of circular poles it is also assumed that 2πωabγ=εa is much less than one where ω is the angular frequency of rotation in radians per second, a the pole-piece radius, b the disk thickness, and γ the electric conductivity, all in centimeter-gram-second electromagnetic units. This produces a fractional error of less than εa in the eddy current densities and of less than (εa)2 in the torque. In the case of the electromagnet the situation is complicated by the presence of the permeable pole pieces in the magnetic field of the eddy currents. This may send a large demagnetizing flux through the electromagnet. An approximate solution for this case will be considered."
"TO write about poles and the preservative treatment of poles today is like writing the review of a very successful play that has been running a long time. The players are not men, but inanimate poles. The natural backdrop is the forest. The stage is as broad as the United States and the setting is a criss-cross of thousands of miles of utility and communication lines. The engineers of these lines are the producers and directors of the play; and it is they who assign the parts to the various actors and write a changing script as the play progresses. It is the purpose of this paper to present certain highlights of the more important scenes, such as pole use and the drain on the forest, pole manufacture and treatment under standard specifications, and pole strength, and to discuss some possible rearrangements in the setting that may become necessary."
"THE present war emergency has crystallized the need for additional information concerning the maximum load capability of modern-design transformers and voltage regulators in order that these apparatus may be utilized to a greater extent for meeting present and new load requirements with a minimum amount of new equipment, thus conserving critical war materials. It will be noted that the papers1–3 presented at the AIEE convextion June 24, 1942 give somewhat divergent views on permissible overloads and on the effect of temperature on transformer insulation."
"THE recent trend toward better use of existing lines and power sources has brought a demand for faster operation of oil circuit breakers and further simplification of control. In the past it has been common practice to use a solenoid or motor to provide closing energy for these breakers, either of which requires a substantial battery, means for keeping it up to full charge at all times, large conductors between the battery and the breaker to handle the heavy currents which exist for approximately one second while the breaker is closing, and generously proportioned control equipment. Consequently, the cost of apparatus associated with the breaker, but actually installed apart from the breaker, becomes a significant item."
"This report has been written to summarize the work of the AIEE current transformer subcommittee and to discuss the considerations which led to the adoption of the material in the revision of section 4, “Instrument Transformers,” of the Proposed American Standard for Transformers, C-57. Special attention is given to the principles underlying the establishment of the over-current requirements of current transformers for relaying service and the revision of the method of specifying the accuracy of instrument transformers for metering service. Mention is also made of the reasons for making other changes, such as in the preferred primary current ratings, potential-transformer ratios, and so forth."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Dreadnaughts of the highway pictured above were victims of a fire caused by a tiny electrostatic spark. The trailer gasoline-tank truck (right) exploded and the huge motor carrier (left) was completely destroyed. The violation of safety practices in the handling of gasoline and other inflammable products also leads frequently to economic waste and loss of life. This article outlines the procedure followed in two cases for detecting the origin of electrostatic sparks and for correcting the hazardous conditions that caused them."
"A simplified procedure for the calculation of short-circuit currents was presented in an earlier report.1 This procedure, outlined in this article, has been given trial use for over a year and has been found to be generally satisfactory for the purpose intended. Accordingly, it is now recommended for general use by the industry as a simplified method of approximating the magnitude of fault currents."
"“The rotating armatures of every generator and every motor in this age of electricity are steadily proclaiming the truth of the relativity theory to all who have ears to hear,” declares this well-known physicist, who traces the development of electromagnetic theory from the 18th century to the impact of relativity."
"This article reviews the present status of rural-electrification engineering, which has become established during the past few years, and points to the beginning of what the author terms “electroagricultural engineering,” which deals with the applications of electricity on the farm. The author predicts that a new industry will be established to produce the equipment needed for these applications."
"The recognized defects in the American system of public education will not be remedied by creating new agencies, but by the intelligent co-operation of educators and the public in the development of an educational program that will teach the citizens of the future how to live and how to earn a living, says a state commissioner of education, who points out that a trained citizenship is our first line of defense."
"The 27th AIEE Pacific Coast convention was held September 9–11 at the Hotel Vancouver in Vancouver, British Columbia. This was the fourth such meeting (1913, 1922, 1932, 1942) to be sponsored by the Vancouver Section since the program of approximately annual Pacific Coast conventions was initiated in 1910 under the sponsorship of the San Francisco Section. The recent meeting in Vancouver was the last national convention, as such, scheduled to be held by the Institute for the duration of the current war emergency, as the District and National technical meetings now being scheduled for future months will be devoted primarily to the discussion and interchange of information concerning technical developments and applications of especial significance in the war effort."
"Great oaks of international misunderstanding grow from little acorns of individual and usually ill-founded-prejudice. Such in essence was the theme of a thought-provoking address given at the Pacific Coast convention, September 9–11, 1942, in Vancouver, B. C, by W. J. Gilson (A'26, M'38), general manager of Eastern Power Devices, Ltd., of Toronto, Ont. The occasion was a joint luncheon sponsored by the Vancouver Electric Club. The essential substance of Mr. Gilson's address follows."
"“Conservation Through Good Engineering” is the wartime theme adopted as a basis for AIEE technical programs in the immediate future. This action was taken by the AIEE technical program committee at its meeting held September 18, 1942, at national headquarters in New York City, in accordance with the new AIEE Wartime Policies as defined and reported on page 477 of the recent September issue of Electrical Engineering."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A salvage program in every plant, factory, shop, or yard is the backbone of the War Production Board's campaign to put our national waste back into production. It is the job of American industry, says the American Industries Salvage Committee, to see that all broken down, dismantled, and unusable materials are made available for scrap, if our steel mills are to be sure of enough scrap to keep up the steel production for the planes, tanks, guns, and ships we need to win the war. Methods of organizing a scrap campaign that can be used effectively by any plant, regardless of size or type, are announced by the salvage committee."
"Extensive use of secondhand electric motors and controls, utilization of full service factor of electric equipment, and design simplification are recommended by the electric motors and control section, general industrial equipment branch, of the War Production Board, as aids in conserving critical materials. Operators who have available secondhand motors or who could make effective use of them should write to the electric motors and control section for assistance in locating or placing such equipment."
"The development of new wartime substitutes to replace critically scarce materials in electrical equipment was the subject of an address by Alvah Small (M'37), president of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., before the National Electrical Contractors Association in Bigwin, Ontario, recently."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without letter, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"THE subject of nondestructive tests on insulation has received much attention. Since a function of insulation in a given application is to provide a certain minimum dielectric strength, tests at their greatest usefulness would give a measure of dielectric strength without requiring a dielectric breakdown. Additional indications like proneness to loss of dielectric strength if subjected to certain hazards of service are valuable, and information on the deterioration or aging of insulation with service may follow from periodic tests."
"WHEN a new device is developed, it is usually adopted and proved by a particular industry. In the case of the ignitron rectifier, the first applications were in transportation service in mines and railways. The apparatus and its performance in these early installations were discussed by the present authors in an earlier Institute paper.1"
"After preliminary development work systematic laboratory tests, closely simulating service conditions, were started in 1934 leading towards final development and improvement of gas-filled cable. The first full-size field installation of gas-filled cable was placed in service in 1938. The results of this work up to that time were summarized in an AIEE paper presented at the winter convention, January 1939. The present paper will deal with progress made since then, covering the whole range of voltage ratings from 10 kv to 138 kv, divided as follows: low-pressure gas-filled cable systems 10 kv to 40 kv, operating at gas pressures from 10 to 15 pounds per square inch; medium-pressure systems 40 kv to 69 kv, operating at gas pressures from 24 to 40 pounds per square inch; high-pressure systems 69 kv to 138 kv, operating at gas pressures from 150 to 200 pounds per square inch."
"SINCE the original development of the a-c locomotive there have been many attempts to improve the locomotive control over that provided on early designs."
"The increased demand for aluminum, magnesium, chlorine, copper, and zinc for war purposes has made the electrolytic processes for these materials the largest consumers of electric energy in this country. The most frequently encountered d-c and voltage requirements of these four principal electrolytic processes are discussed. An illustrative current-time and voltage-time characteristic curve for starting a chlorine cell line is shown, and the requirements that such characteristics impose on the electric equipment are discussed. The current-voltage characteristics of aluminum, magnesium, chlorine, and zinc cell lines are also shown. A typical installation of conversion equipment for an electrolytic process plant is given, and the reasons for selecting the particular types of electric equipment and its physical and electrical arrangement are discussed. As part of this discussion, there are included characteristic curves of rectifiers showing the effect of ignition control on power factor for 6-, 12-, and 36-phase combinations. A table giving a “rule-of-thumb” relationship between the number of phases and kilowatt limits which have been found in practice to provide operation reasonably free from telephone interference is included. There is also given a tabulation of phase shifter combinations, by means of which multiphase operation can be obtained with various combinations of standard six-phase rectifier transformers."
"The rate of mechanical deterioration of cellulose insulation is dependent on the conditions of its use. Those factors of major importance are the temperature applied and the presence of oxygen and moisture. Moisture even in small amounts greatly affects the mechanical stability of the cellulose insulation. In general, the mechanical life of the insulation is reduced by half for each doubling in water content. Deterioration promoted by oxidation is most effective at temperatures below 120 degrees centigrade and is accelerated by the presence of moisture. The rate of deterioration for substantially dry insulation at temperatures above 120 degrees centigrade is dependent upon its previous history. Intermittent exposure to high temperature effects are additive. The “eight-degree-centigrade rule,” indicative that the rate of mechanical deterioration is doubled for each eight-degree-centigrade increase from a base temperature of 120 degrees centigrade or higher, applies most closely for practical use when the insulation under study has lost more than 50 per cent of its tensile strength."
"The fundamental steady-state theory of the amplidyne generator is presented in this paper together with methods for calculating the characteristics of the generator from the machine constants. Experimental data obtained on a test machine are compared with calculated results to show the accuracy of the methods and to substantiate the theory. The effects of such factors as brush losses, commutation, and overcompensation and undercompensation on the operation of the generator are explained. Overcompensated and undercompensated machines are treated from the standpoint of both steady-state operation and electrical stability. Methods are given for the determination of the machine constants from open-circuit and short-circuit tests performed on the machine. This method offers the advantage that the machine constants so determined apply for actual conditions of operation and need not be modified to include the effects of such factors as brush and commutation losses, eddy currents, and hysteresis."
"This paper presents a discussion and analysis of short circuits for low-voltage distribution systems. Many distribution systems are supplied from transformers connected in delta on the low-voltage side with the mid-tap of one secondary winding, or with one corner of the delta, connected to ground. As a result, short circuits on these systems often involve failure to ground, and an accurate analysis for these faults is of value. An original analysis of power-leg-to-ground and light-leg-to-ground short circuits is presented together with formulas for line-to-line and three-phase faults. A study of short circuits on the secondary circuits of single-phase transformers supplied from three-phase systems is also included, thereby giving a comprehensive treatment of distribution short circuits. The paper also includes a discussion of the effects of resistance in limiting short-circuit currents and the voltage rise of the secondary neutral above ground potential caused by transformer failure and resistance to ground."
"There are two generally recognized methods of measuring demand. The block-interval type has been used extensively where great accuracy is desirable, a simple explanation necessary, and a quick testing method essential, but the “logarithmic” type has received increased attention in recent years, and a greater dissemination of knowledge of its characteristics is desirable. A mathematical expression for “logarithmic” average is given which can apply to a variable load as well as to a uniform load. It is shown that a meter with a simple exponential time-deflection characteristic will indicate this “logarithmic” average, but that meters with characteristics obtainable in present commercial thermal meters will theoretically differ from it except when used with certain loads. The accuracy of commercial meters has increased in recent years. So besides indicating that the various types of characteristics available in commercial meters have apparently been satisfactory on normally encountered loads, it is shown that sturdiness and high torques are desirable features to sustain these accuracies. The internally heated thermal watt-demand principle is discussed, and the conclusion is reached that by its use high torque can be obtained using the time tested bimetal type of meter. In addition, the rapid diffusion of heat in the bimetal where it is generated theoretically allows shorter “heat-up” time when the meter is being tested and results in a time-deflection characteristic much closer to the ideal simple exponential."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Recognizing that war causes a dislocation in a nation's economy which in turn tends to lower its efficiency, a Canadian cites the necessity for expediting war production in Canada and suggests a national-efficiency program applicable to any nation at war. He declares that to achieve victory there must be a judicious allocation of men and materials for the maximum output of the implements of war and for the curtailed output of essential civilian goods; that there must be a rigorous practice of conservation on the part of individuals, business, and government; and that there must be a forfeiture of personal convenience where the national welfare is concerned."
"Henry's little-known experiments on what he called “induction at a distance,” conducted 100 years ago, were really the forerunner of radio. Since this present war has been labeled a “radio war” because of the great importance in military and naval activities of the transmission of electromagnetic waves, it is particularly appropriate to take this radio anniversary as the occasion for honoring this great pioneer in electrical science."
"Results obtained in the AIEE-Engineering Foundation research project on the stability of impregnated-paper insulation, since its inception in 1936, are reported briefly. Some unexpected properties of impregnated-paper insulation have been discovered and findings pertaining to paper density, high-stress internal ionization as the origin of failure, and impregnation temperature versus dielectric strength and life indicate that further research in these fields is desirable."
"The elements of reversed refrigeration, a method by which heating may be accomplished, are to be found in all refrigerating and air-conditioning systems. In reversed refrigeration the heat derived from the motor and the compressor and from the substance cooled — air or water — is utilized. The method is particularly applicable in industrial plants requiring refrigeration throughout the year, where the relatively hot condenser-cooling water now being wasted might be salvaged for heating purposes. Two industrial reversed-refrigeration plants now in successful operation are described here."
"Carrier pilot relaying and carrier-telephone communication have been installed to meet the difficult requirements of relaying and intrasystem communication on the extensive Tennessee Valley Authority system. Eight power-line carrier-telephone channels which can be interconnected at many points and carrier pilot relaying on 20 high-voltage transmission lines help to expedite the multipurpose operating procedures of the TVA. This article gives reasons for the selection of carrier relaying and communication and presents an analysis of their application, of the difficulties encountered, and of their over-all performance under service conditions."
"For the nomination of national officers to be voted upon in the spring of 1943, the AIEE national nominating committee will meet during the national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943. The officers to be elected are: a president, a national treasurer, three directors, and five vice-presidents, one from each of the even-numbered geographical Districts. Fellows only are eligible for the office of president, and Members and Fellows for the offices of vice-president, director, and national treasurer."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"More than 3,000 trained men, loaned by private industry to assist in the industrial salvage program, will make a 90-day plant-to-plant canvass of American industry and call on the presidents of 70,000 industrial firms in the most thoroughly organized search for industrial scrap to date, according to Robert W. Wolcott, chairman of American Industries Salvage Committee."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following. summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"WHILE there have been a number of papers on recovery voltage and its effect on the operation of circuit-interrupting devices, and although the transient recovery voltage and its characteristic are assuming a more important place in the design and application of circuit breakers with the growth and increasing capacity of power systems, there has not been available to the average power-company engineer a convenient method for determining this characteristic. The present paper offers such a method and also tabulates capacitance data for the more important circuit elements."
"The $64,000,000 subway project now being completed will provide long-needed rapid-transit terminal facilities in the Chicago downtown district. The State Street subway will be completely equipped and in operation early in 1943 and will constitute a major contribution to the problem of handling additional traffic resulting from a decrease in the use of passenger automobiles."
"Mercury-arc power rectifiers have been used increasingly to supply power to d-c utilization systems in the United States since the early twenties. War requirements, because they have multiplied the demand for aluminum, magnesium, chlorine, zinc, and copper, all of which utilize d-c current in their reduction, have tremendously increased d-c power consumption. It is estimated that 12 1/2 per cent of the kilowatt-hours generated in 1941 were consumed in such electrochemical processes. Since the mercury-arc rectifier is now the almost universally accepted form of conversion apparatus for this purpose, the attention of many more engineers has recently been focused on it. Many advantages of the modern rectifier have led to its wide acceptance, but it is not within the scope of this paper to deal with these. One persistent factor in connection with the application of rectifiers which has claimed much attention is the phenomenon of arc-back. Various methods of attack have been employed successfully. High-speed anode switching appears to be the most satisfactory way to handle this problem. Such a solution is widely used in the aluminum industry.1 Part I of this paper includes an analysis of the arc-back problem and various means of protection from its effects. Reasons why high-speed anode switching is an improved type of arc-back protection are set forth. Part II of this paper describes this multi-pole high-speed air circuit breaker. The requirements which the breaker must meet are discussed, and the electrical and mechanical features described. Performance of the breaker was checked in field tests. Oscillographic data are presented and prove that the performance is acceptable."
"ABOUT 40 papers have been written on the asynchronous torques, synchronous cusps at running, synchronous cusps at standstill (dead points), and noise of the induction motor. The subject has been also treated in some textbooks.∗ My aim is to give a coherent representation of the harmonic problem in induction motors. It is based on the work of my predecessors, on my own work, and on my experience."
"EXPERIENCE with power circuit breakers has frequently shown that two breakers of identical design may give radically different performances, even though the operating voltages and short-circuit currents to which they are subjected are the same. Studies of the conditions surrounding these circuit breakers have traced the cause to the differences in the manner in which the recovery voltage has appeared across the contacts of the circuit breakers subsequent to the final interruption. This voltage which occurs between the final arc voltage and the 60-cycle recovery voltage is an equalizing phenomenon defined as the transient recovery voltage. To take it into account in breaker applications, studies have been made of the transient voltages which can occur on systems, and other studies have been made of the response of the circuit breakers to transient recovery voltages."
"THE combination of line sectionalizing in the main feeder, individual protection at branch-line junctions, and re-closing relays and breakers at the substation has been shown to provide a cumulative reduction in consumer minutes outage (minutes of outage per consumer per year) that no one of the methods can provide alone.1 Branch protection proved to be of greater value than line sectionalizing."
"THE increased kilowatt burden on generation and transmission equipments — occasioned by the existing national emergency — calls for a reduction in the use of these equipments for generating and transmitting reactive kilovolt-amperes. When operating conditions permit the use of either capacitors or synchronous condensers, the relatively shorter production time of capacitors is making them more and more justifiable as a reactive source in the range of kilovolt-ampere ratings where economics might normally dictate a synchronous condenser.1 At the present time the use of capacitors in banks up to 10,000 kva is being given increased consideration, and several installations having steps in this range have already been made."
"THE knowledge that metals could be heated inductively and that nonconductors could be heated dielectrically dates from the earliest experiments with electricity. In the last few years inductive and dielectric losses, which have long been obstacles in the electrical industry, have been profitably employed in a new industrial tool powered by high-frequency motor-generator sets and vacuum-tube oscillators. Low-frequency inductive heating has been used in specialized melting applications for approximately 20 years and for some surface hardening work for the last ten years. However with the advent of the new equipment and knowledge of its use, it is no longer a highly restricted application but is ready to handle thousands of heating processes throughout the industry. Hence, it is felt that a short review of the theory of inductive and dielectric heating, together with a description of the vacuum-tube circuits used and some of their applications, would be of value at this time."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertised products represented in this issue."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"WHEN Sir William Thomson saw the newly invented telephone of Alexander Graham Bell at the Philadelphia Centennial Exposition in 1876, he stated that “it was the greatest marvel hitherto achieved by the telegraph.” Recognizing that the limitations of the first crude instruments would soon be removed, he remarked that “the invention is yet in its infancy and is susceptible of great improvements,” and also said “with somewhat more advanced plans and more powerful apparatus, we may confidently expect that Mr. Bell will give us the means of making voice and spoken words audible through the electric wire to an ear hundreds of miles distant.” Lord Kelvin lived to see these prophecies rapidly proved true. Had he lived only a few years longer, he would have seen the quality of transmitted speech brought close to perfection, and he would have seen the hundreds of miles extended to thousands."
"ESSENTIAL to the drawing of copper wire at any speed are the dies to effect the desired reduction steps. It can be readily surmised that this item is one of major importance at drawing speeds of 10,000 and 12,000 feet per minute which are being used in the copper wire drawing plants at the Kearny Works and the Baltimore Works of the Western Electric Company.1 In these machines diamond dies are used to draft 12 and 14 A.W.G. supply wire to the final sizes of 19, 22, 24 and 26 A.W.G., respectively. As pointed out in the paper1 describing these machines in the above noted plants, the maximum possible drawing speed is limited by the stresses set up in the take-up reel rims. Drawing dies in themselves should not place any limitations on the wire drawing speeds if the factors of heat generated and the rapid movement of lineal wire surfaces are logically considered and provided for."
"THE necessity for quality control in a manufacturing plant arises from the fact that all units of product cannot be made identical. To limit variations and attain controlled uniformity some sort of inspection must be established. It has been the experience of the Western Electric Company that quality control may be attained most economically by the use of a sampling inspection wherein only a portion of the entire output is examined for desired quality characteristics."
"MANY of the important ideas of physics are of such recent birth that if they still seem hard to grasp, it may be contended that the world has not yet had the time to assimilate them. Of entropy this cannot be said; with its centenary almost upon us, entropy is ancient compared with most of the concepts which baffle the student today. Yet an aura of mystery seems to envelop it still, and two other things inseparably joined to it: the scale of temperature called absolute, and the Second Law of Thermodynamics. One is driven to wonder why the three of them resist the understanding so tenaciously, and certain reasons are not hard to find. Thus, to speak of the three as “joined together” is too weak, for it implies that they can at least be taken in a certain order for didactic purposes, the student ascending from the one to the next and finally to the last. Actually they are much too tightly interlocked for this, a sort of trinity one and indivisible, which must be apprehended as a whole if ever to be properly grasped at all. Again, the Second Law has been expressed in many different ways, and it is one of the oddest things in science to see how various authorities can claim that the law is obeyed absolutely without exception, while they themselves cannot agree how to state it. A further cause of trouble lies in the unlucky boundary between chemistry and physics, which nowhere harms these sciences more than in the study of entropy. Like the worst of the old-fashioned boundaries of Europe, it wanders capriciously across the natural lines of intercourse and trade, cutting off the traditional chemist from the origin and development of some of his most valuable ideas, cutting off the traditional physicist from some of the finest verifications of the thought of his fore-runners. It will be the principal object of this paper to dwell on these verifications, abolishing the barrier so far as may be feasible."
"Recent Developments in Burying Telephone Cables.1 Donald Fisher and Temple C. Smith. The term “buried cables” has come to mean those underground cables which have no conduit protection. Due to the accelerated demand for such construction in recent years, much effort has been expended in devising methods and developing machinery for burying cables. One of the earlier methods used in this and some foreign countries was to dig a trench by hand alongside the road; unreel the cable from a moving truck, thus laying it beside the trench; work the cable over into the trench by having 30 to 50 men handle it in relays; splice the cable in the trench, and finally backfill the spoil and tamp it by hand. Later variations of this method introduced one or more of the following units of machine equipment: Power trenching machines: Caterpillar tractors with trailers to straddle the trench, laying the cable directly from the reel into the trench; Drag-line or other types of power backfillers; Power tampers or rollers."
"Oliver E. Buckley, B. Sc., Grinnell College, 1909; Ph.D., Cornell, 1914; D. Sc., Grinnell, 1936. Engineering Department, Western Electric Company, 1914–1917 and 1919–1925; Major, Signal Corps, U. S. A. in charge of research laboratory of Signal Corps in A.E.F. 1917–19; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. Assistant Director of Research, 1927; Director of Research, 1933; Executive Vice-President, 1936; President, 1940–. Dr. Buckley's personal contributions to the art of communication have been principally in the field of submarine telegraphy and telephony. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and of the American Philosophical Society; a fellow of several scientific and engineering societies, and chairman of the Engineering Foundation Board."
"Although sound recording differs greatly from motion picture photography, it involves many analogous techniques and some similar processes. Sound recording requires special apparatus to transform sound into energy capable of exposing motion picture film. Its reproduction from the film requires additional transformations involving other specialized apparatus. — Good sound pick-up on the motion picture set involves acoustic conditioning quite analogous to set lighting, camera angle selection, etc. The sound crew is provided with flexible means for microphone placement and with controls and monitoring devices for observation of the results obtained. The film recording machine is a specialized mechanism requiring precision comparable to that of the motion picture camera. Its operation entails skillful adjustments. The sound department coöperates with the laboratory department in the establishment and interpretation of processing controls."
"A brief description of the procedure followed in the Hollywood studios in scoring and prescoring motion picture productions. Scoring is the addition of music and effects after the finish of the photographing; prescoring is the preparation of musical or dance numbers before the photographing."
"It seems to be generally accepted opinion that three-blade shutters must be employed to control flicker properly in the projection of 16-mm pictures, even though the machine is not required to operate at less than 24 pictures per second. There is little complaint of the flicker in theater projection, where two-blade shutters are practically universal. Why then should it be necessary to make a large sacrifice in screen brightness by using three-blade shutters when projecting 16-mm pictures? Less control of the conditions of projection is probably the most important of the valid objections. However, the opinion that two-blade shutters are not to be considered is based in part upon misleading tests, and the writers hold that for many applications single-speed machines should be given the benefit of the greater luminous efficiency possible with two-blade shutters. — The paper discusses the various factors that bear on flicker, and reports a number of experimental studies."
"The projection of a motion picture on a translucent screen for background purposes has become increasingly important in studio operations during the past ten years. Many shots now made through the use of this process would have been extremely costly and perhaps impossible if attempted by direct filming of the complete action. — The sharp rise in production costs during the past few years, coupled with the curtailment of foreign markets, demanded that every effort be expended to simplify production methods. — With this in view, Paramount Pictures embarked upon a complete modernization program of the Transparency department production equipment early in 1940. New compact projection units, bases for the projectors, rewind tables, screen frames, screen handling equipment, and light-bridges were designed and built. This equipment has immeasurably simplified operations as well as improved quality beyond levels heretofore achieved. — Descriptions of this equipment are presented, with emphasis upon a comparison of the new with the old. The success of the equipment can be attributed largely to standardization of component parts. Complete interchangeability of essential units, coupled with easy access to critical points, has gone far toward eliminating lost time and motion in meeting unexpected emergencies."
"The following pages contain all the recommended practices of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers now in force. Previous publications of SMPE Standards and Recommended Practices appeared in the May 1930, November 1934, and March 1938 issues of the JOURNAL."
"The theory and use of a method for testing loud speakers in theaters are described and presented as a tool for the theater serviceman. Using this method, the serviceman can quickly, and with an accuracy commensurate with his requirements, determine the average frequency response of the speakers, as seen from various points in an auditorium. He can determine also, for a specific auditorium, the horn-system distribution pattern that allows the use of a minimum of acoustic treatment and also the position of this treatment."
"A general résumé of the technical progress in motion on pictures since he introduction of sound. The changes that have occurred in the various technics employed are described, including the different kinds of recording, the achievement of high-quality records and their reproduction, and the improvements in equipment and films."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., at prevailing rates."
"The Papers Committee submits for the consideration of the membership the following abstracts of papers to be presented at the Spring Convention. It is hoped that the publication of these abstracts will encourage attendance at the meeting and facilitate discussion. The papers presented at Conventions constitute the bulk of the material published in the Journal. The abstracts may therefore be used as convenient reference until the papers are published."
"The projection room plans that follow constitute the third revision of the original plans published by the Committee in August, 1932. The two prior revisions were made in October, 1935, and November, 1938. Such revisions are necessary from time to time in order to keep pace with the changes and developments in the art and practice of projecting sound motion pictures and to assure that the projection room is so planned that it will permit maximum efficiency of operation of the equipment installed within it. The Committee urgently recommends the adoption of these Recommendations by all architects and builders in designing and remodeling projection rooms so that greater uniformity of construction and greater efficiency in projection will exist in the future."
"The function of laboratory service to studio production departments and to the release distribution field is discussed. The size and scope of laboratory operations are illustrated graphically by an organization chart showing the number of sub-departments. These in turn are classified into three major divisions, namely, Control, Processing, and Maintenance. Analysis of individual department activity begins with the Control division, and emphasis is placed upon the recent trend toward more scientific approach to the problems of processing. Discussion continues with the Processing division, starting with negative development, and the processing method of each successive department is described showing the inline flow of the work for both studio and release print operations. Problems relating to proper mechanical and electrical maintenance are also discussed."
"This paper represents a broad analysis of a music recording studio recently completed at the RCA Manufacturing Co., Hollywood, Calif. Discussed herein are constructional details considered important toward the achievement of good recording conditions in the stage. In particular, the action of convex wood splays is considered in some detail, especially in regard to their influence on the reverberation characteristic of the room."
"A general report on setting of procedural and dimensional practices for the production of 16-mm sound motion pictures for television projection. — The paper shows that in the various steps from the original film to the final image on the television receiver, a considerable percentage of the frame area is lost by “cropping” in the projector, in the iconoscope, and in the kinescope. Unless this loss is taken into consideration and compensated for in the original planning of films for television, loss of image area may seriously impair the effect of the motion picture. — The paper makes specific recommendations based upon the conclusions drawn, but does not attempt, in view of present conditions, to fix final aperture standards any further than to urge that such standards be set up by the proper group. Many of the factors directly concerned in production are considered with a view to the ultimate quality to be attained. — Reference is made to experiences and problems met by the authors in the preparation of animated cartoons and other films for television broadcasting."
"Current practices in cinematography as followed in the Hollywood studios are described. Some of the subjects covered are camera equipment, set lighting, operation of camera crews, exteriors and use of booster lights, exteriors taken indoors, make-up, diffusion, coated lenses, use of light-meters, color contrast of sets, set and production designs, value of hard light for exteriors and interiors, stand-ins, air photography, matching stock shots, Technicolor and bipack, Kodachrome, and mono-pack."
"A landscape that includes a cloud-flecked sky is far more attractive than the same scene without the clouds, particularly in photographic landscapes, where, without the benefit of color, the cloudless sky area is rendered as an uninteresting expanse of monotone. It has long been a major problem of the studios to be assured of obtaining attractive exterior scenes, for a great deal of equipment and personnel are involved when moving a unit out of the studio. It is not possible to decide suddenly to move out to an exterior location; exterior scenes must be planned well and at least twenty-four hours in advance. During the long California summer, weeks on end follow without clouds of any description, and the cameraman is often faced with the problem of having to photograph scenes with little or no pictorial embellishment. Heretofore, in the major productions, it has often been necessary to “dupe” in clouds after the scenes have been made, and sometimes locations at a distance have been chosen where conditions indicated that chances of obtaining real clouds were reasonably favorable. The budget for the average production does not permit the great expense of either of these alternatives, so a process had to be developed by means of which clouds could be produced with dependability and economy."
"This essay does not in any way pretend to be a comprehensive coverage of the equipment, methods, and problems of the Technicolor cameraman at the present time, but is intended rather to present some of the items that might be of general interest. Inasmuch as the general technics of motion picture photography are well known and have been frequently discussed in the literature, there will here be presented some of those aspects that are peculiar to, or receive emphasis from, the fact that the camera is photographing in color."
"The motion picture and the automobile were born at the turn of the century and grew up together. Both have their foundations in science and technology, and both have profoundly affected our individual and national lives. Their maturity has placed them among the five largest American industries, yet one is fundamentally an art. An automobile is something concrete, tangible, something real; a motion picture is light and shadow, laughter and tears, speech and music. The motion picture is an art as well as an industry. The motivating forces of the film are drama, comedy, human experience—yet it could not exist except for the organized efforts of the many craftsmen and technicians that make it an industry. Since art and industry are so interwoven, a change in technology affects the art of the film, while the demands of the art bring about technical improvements. — This report illustrates the role that technology plays in the conception of the film as an art, and the changes that the demands of the art itself have brought about in technic. The cameraman's universal focus, the soundman's reverberation chamber, the set designer's cloth ceiling—all have their share in telling a story realistically and dramatically. Someone's story idea sets this intricate machinery in motion, and from the writer, actor, artist, and engineer comes a living entity—a combination of arts that have been in development since man first learned to record his experiences for posterity."
"The principle of a null-indicating densitometer has been adapted to the measurement of camera lens iris settings. — An optical system calibrated in accordance with the described technic is rendered amenable to precise calculation of the luminous flux per unit area in any part of the field, with particular stress laid on the axial condition."
"There are several standards anomalies in 16-mm little realized no only by many engineers but also by many of those who daily use the medium. — While there is but one 35-mm emulsion position—the standard position, the emulsion facing the light-source—there are two emulsion position in 16-mm—the “standard” position, in which the emulsion faces the screen; and the “non-standard” position, in which the emulsion faces the light-source. What the non-standard position films may lack in millions of feet used per month, is made up in great measure by their 5 to 1 processing-cost ratio and their higher first cost. — Commercial projection equipment generally has ignored these more costly films and chosen to compete in the low-cost low-quality black-and-white print market. Not one projector manufacturer supplies as standard equipment today a directional loud speaker of suitable efficiency and transient characteristics for high-quality reproduction; only one manufacturer supplies as standard equipment a sound projector whose sound optics are one-half mil in width and may be refocused properly to project “non-standard” emulsion position prints. — While 16-mm black-and-white print quality is generally bad and the resultant projected picture and sound likewise bad when compared with 35-mm theatrical projection, this condition can be corrected almost overnight if Government specifications for 16-mm prints and for 16-mm sound projectors and loud speakers will call for modern 16-mm materials, modern specialized 16-mm methods, and modern equipment. Unit cost increases for the improved quality are inevitable; the increase in effectiveness, however, will far more than compensate for the relatively small increases in unit costs that result. One commercially available system for achieving the desired standard of quality is described."
"The production of industrial sound motion pictures is similar to production in the major studios. Limited budgets mean that certain short-cuts must be taken but the final screen results must be such that the audience is not aware of the limited budget. If satisfactory results are to be obtained, close coöperation is required between the director who has his special problems and the technical department which also has its special problems. — The paper lists a number of these problems and also discusses what can be expected of industrial producers."
"The meeting of the Atlantic Coast Section of the Society on May 21st was devoted to the question of “Wartime Conservation in Theater Projection.” The paper that formed the basis of the meeting has already been published, in last month's issue of the Journal. — At the end of the presentation, the following discussion, on the carbon situation and the conservation of copper, was contributed by Mr. Williford."
"A discussion of the various problems encountered in the road-showing of “Fantasia” with the multiple-track Fantasound equipment. The experiences and conditions encountered are presented as a guide for the further development of this very important field. It is expected that this system will add greatly to the dramatic presentation of pictures and will, in some form, replace our sound-reproduction systems."
"A non-technical discussion of Fantasound from the musician's point of view. The use of Fantasound is reviewed as a basis for discussing ways in which it can be used in the future."
"While portability is a necessary requirement for outside pick-up equipment, several advantages result when portability is carried into the studio. To equip a studio of adequate size with fixed equipment for operation of several cameras involves considerable time and expenditure. However, with portable studio equipment, the entire equipment installation can be located to suit studio needs, as well as moved to different studios or outside locations. — The dolly type equipment is described in some detail and systems for program control are discussed. Some of the design features discussed are portable and flexible synchronizing equipment; electronic view finders; oscilloscope monitors; and other operating facilities."
"Potentiometric titration methods are applied to routine developer analyses in order to simplify and speed up the operation and to minimize the human error arising from judgment of color change end points, etc. A brief theoretical treatment of potentiometric titrations is included, and new tests for elon, hydroquinone, and carbonate are outlined. Previously published methods for bromide and sulfite are also included. Detailed procedure outlines are included along with a discussion of the problem of pH vs. the alkali content of a developer. A glossary showing stepwise procedure operations required to accomplish the analyses has been compiled along with a complete equipment and chemical reagent list. The precision of the methods is evaluated by a table showing analysis data on carefully mixed known developers."
"The chemical reactions that take place in a photographic developer are discussed in detail. It is pointed out that, following the determination of a chemical formula that produces optimal photographic results, the concentration of every important ingredient of this solution may be held constant by the use of continuous replenishment and chemical control. After a discussion of the theoretical considerations involved, details are given for the establishment of picture negative, variable-density sound negative, and positive systems in use at the Paramount West Coast Laboratory."
"The use of the edge-number and how it is generally applied in the industry, and the advantages of edge-numbering at 16 frames as a standard for 16-mm film are discussed. — It has been long-accepted practice to edge-number 16-mm film in relation to 35-mm frames. Such practice has proved advantageous in complex films, such as one constructed of some 16-mm film combined with 35-mm to complete a final subject in finished form on 16-mm, still maintaining all the advantages gained in the past practice by the use of 35-mm."
"A brief description of the principles and early development of electrostatic precipitation, and a brief description of a new air-cleaner using the electrostatic principle that generates practically no ozone. Reference is made to recent applications of the new precipitator."
"The depth of field of a corrected lens system is determined by its focal length, its relative aperture, and the permissible diameter of the “in-focus” image of a point source. — The limited depth of field in motion picture photography restricts freedom of action in large parts of the set, dictates a stylized, protracted, and costly studio procedure, and affects the dramatic value and audience appeal of monochrome or color pictures. — Previous attempts to increase lens depth of field have been scientifically unsound and unsuccessful in practice. The new IR System, described in this paper, is based on a division of the set into optically appropriate regions, each region having identifiable illumination, with the identification and differential focusing at the camera of all regional images within a single exposure. Thus greatly increased depth of field in straight and process shots becomes available. — By a further modification in regional lighting, a number of such increased-depth takes can be simultaneously made from different distances or at various angles, each such take having its own different and appropriate lighting."
"Certain crystals have long been known to transmit light of one color and reflect light of another color. Some thin metallic films also exhibit the same phenomena. By evaporating alternate layers of high and low-index insulators on glass, it is possible to produce a surface having predetermined transmission and reflection characteristics, and having no appreciable absorption. A method of determining the properties of multilayer films is described. — Design details and curves are given for a three-layer film having its peak transmission at 4400 A and its peak reflection at 7920 A. This film is successfully employed in high-level photocell monitoring systems for sound recorders. Nearly all the actinic value of the modulated light is transmitted to the photographic film while a large part of the red and infrared is reflected to a cesium photocell for monitoring."
"Fine-grain film materials have supplanted the normal positive type emulsions for all variable-density sound-recording and printing operations. The sound-quality improvement realized by the reduction in noise and distortion is now available for all sound operations, including release prints. The paper describes a number of problems encountered and solved in the commercial application of such films for sound recording, including factors affecting the choice of negative and print materials, noise, distortion, sensitometric characteristics, recorder lamp supplies, and noise problems on stages."
"While fine-grain emulsions have been in general use for specialty purposes for three years or more, their use as a medium for release prints is comparatively recent. This paper discusses the necessary modifications required in a release laboratory to produce satisfactory fine-grain release prints. The discussion covers light-source, power supply, light testing, and printing equipment. Observations noted while processing the first thirty million feet of release prints are made relative to the behavior and characteristics of the film."
"A brief historical résumé is given of a series of fine-grain films that have been put upon the market during the past four years. This series of fine-grain films culminated with the acceptance of Eastman 1302 fine-grain release positive at one Hollywood laboratory to the exclusion of regular positive of the 1301 type for release printing. Experimental data are presented to show the comparative sensitometric characteristics of fine-grain positive 1302 and regular positive 1301 at various pH values and potassium bromide concentrations typical of Hollywood positive developers. A basic positive developer formula derived from chemical analyses of every release positive developer in Hollywood was used in the experimental work. Some practical facts are discussed, based upon the experiences obtained from the initial use of the fine-grain film in Hollywood."
"The production of industrial films by the direct 16-mm method is now definitely out of the experimental stage. As more industrial work is done by this method there is an increasing demand for more and better 16-mm equipment suitable for professional use. Such equipment can be developed successfully only after the professional user has found by actual experience what he needs and wants. — A number of 16-mm professionals were asked for suggestions as to what is needed. These suggestions combined with the author's own ideas gained over a period of ten years in the professional 16-mm field form the basis of this paper. Some of the ideas presented could be acted upon immediately; some can not be put into practice until the demand for 16-mm service becomes even greater."
"This is an account of the work of the several sub-committees of the Theater Engineering Committee during the past two years. The report of the Sub-Committee on Projection Practice embodies a preliminary study of safety factors in projection rooms, specifically with reference to the use of hand-operated fire extinguishers. — The report of the Sub-Committee on Theater Design includes a preliminary study of the basic shapes of theaters and advantageous seating zones, including a report on a study of these factors made in the Surrey Theater in New York. — A report of the Sub-Committee on Screen Brightness deals with proposed specifications for meters for measuring incident and reflected screen light in theaters, and the efforts of the Committee to encourage the manufacture of such instruments for the industry."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., at prevailing rates."
"The nature of re-recording as it applies to motion picture production is described in some detail by showing what happens to a typical picture in the re-recording department after shooting on the set has been completed and the picture has been edited to the satisfaction of the producer. — Sound is added to those portions of the picture that have been photographed silent because of the difficulty or impossibility of recording the corresponding sound at that time, as for example, credit titles, montages, miniatures, stock shots, and scenes photographed silent to playbacks of pre-recorded sound. Music that has been especially scored and recorded for the picture together with appropriate sound-effects is added to heighten its dramatic presentation. — Improvements in dialog quality are made if required by employing electrical equalizers, although distortion is often purposely introduced where telephone, dictaphone, radio, and similar types of quality must be simulated as required by the picture. — Proper balance of the relative volume of the dialog and accompanying music and sound-effects is determined to the satisfaction of the re-recording supervisor. All the sounds from as many as a dozen or more different sources are re-recorded to a single composite sound-track which is afterward printed with the picture to make up the final print to be projected in the theater. — The organization of the re-recording department is discussed and the duties of various members of the personnel are outlined. Crews are so made up that an average of from three to six pictures are in work at the same time."
"The first part of this paper deals with the physical aspect of cutting and editing motion pictures—that is, the manner in which the film is physically handled in the process of assembling the various “dailies,” “rushes,” and other forms of film up to the time of release. — The second part of the paper deals with the editorial aspect—that is, the assembling of the various shots of the picture and the importance of the proper arrangement of these shots in producing the desired dramatic effects."
"No report of the Progress Committee has been presented to the Society since that covering the year 1939, which was published in the Journal in May, 1940. Accordingly, the present report covers the years 1940–41. This report, like previous ones, includes the following classifications: (I) Cinematography: (A) Professional, (B) Substandard; (II) Sound Recording; (III) Sound and Picture Reproduction; (IV) Television; (V) Publications and New Books."
"A method is described of photographing professional short subject pictures on 16-mm Kodachrome film having edge numbers and enlarging on standard 35-mm black-and-white film for the purpose of cutting, editing, and viewing in standard 35-mm studio equipment. The edited black-and-white film is used as a pilot film for cutting the original 16-mm Kodachrome for color separation negatives and the subsequent 35-mm Technicolor release prints."
"The exaggeration of sibilant speech-sounds produced when electronic volume compression is employed in sound-recording channels is shown to be a form of amplitude-selective frequency distortion, which is generated by virtue of the normal mode of operation of the compressor. The practical elimination of this form of distortion is accomplished by equalization of the compressor control-rectifier input circuit, the amount of equalization employed being proportional to the inverse average relationship between rms speech-pressure per cycle and speech component frequency."
"A 5-mil frequency-modulated track located between sound and picture areas is proposed to control reproduction in the theater from one or more soundtracks. A variation of approximately one octave in the control frequency provides a 30-db change in volume range which may be used in part for volume expansion of loud sounds or as noise reduction for weak sounds. The control-track frequency is varied manually and recorded simultaneously with the sound-track in the dubbing operation, the gain of the monitoring channel being varied in accordance with the control frequency to produce automatically the enhanced volume range desired from the release print. The track is recorded in line with the standard sound-track and does not require separate printing or reproducing apertures. It is scanned by a separate photosensitive surface, the output being converted from frequency to voltage variations by a frequency-discriminating network identical to that used in the monitoring channel. The output from the network, applied to the grid of a variable-gain amplifier in the sound channel, controls automatically the volume of the reproduced sound in accordance with that observed in the dubbing operation."
"The factors underlying the design and use of biased recording systems are described. In order to minimize noise and “shutter bump” special precautions in filtering must be taken. Suitable values for “attack” and “release” times are dependent upon the type of recording, margin settings, and reproducing conditions. Comparison of variable-density and variable-area requirements is made. Methods used in designing the rectifiers, filters, and other circuit details are given and the application to a new equipment known as the RA-1124 Noise-Reduction Unit is shown."
"A photoelectric densitometer of the direct-reading type is described. A logarithmic amplifier circuit has been modified so as to give an accurately linear output with high stability. The instrument covers a density range of 0 to 3.0. Pertinent optical, electrical, and performance factors are discussed."
"A brief discussion on photographically important characteristics of fluorescent lamps is followed by a thorough mathematical analysis of the constancy of light produced by fluorescent lamps. The conclusion is reached that, during exposure times ordinarily encountered in motion picture photography, the constancy of light from fluorescent lamps, if these are properly applied, far exceeds minimum requirements and that, even for extremely short exposure times, this constancy is well within accepted limits."
"A method is described for the analysis of iodide in a developer involving precipitation of the halide with silver nitrate and oxidation of the iodide while it is in the form of solid silver iodide to iodate with chlorine water. The iodate is then determined polarographically. Quantities of iodide from 2.5 to 10 milligrams of potassium iodide were analyzed with an accuracy of 2–4 per cent. Thiocyanate in the developer interferes but it can be removed by boiling with strong sulfuric acid before precipitation. — Using this method of analysis it was shown that an equilibrium amount of iodide is obtained in a developer. Curves are given showing the attainment of equilibrium for development of Eastman panchromatic negative motion picture film, in Kodak D-76, and in Kodak D-16 developers, and Eastman positive motion picture film in Kodak D-16. The equilibrium value depends on the emulsion, the developer, the developed density, and perhaps other variables which will be investigated more thoroughly."
"The dropping mercury electrode is applied to the problem of analyzing aged photographic developers and new tests are described for elon and hydroquinone. The question of suitable tests for bromide is discussed and it is shown that the bromide test must be independent of chloride. Such a test is described. — Using these new technics and others it is demonstrated that it is possible and practical by chemical analysis alone to match exactly the photographic characteristics of an aged MQ developer. The only elements necessary for such an analysis are elon, hydroquinone, sulfite, salt concentration, pH, bromide, and iodide. The precision required for the proper analysis for each constituent has been investigated and is reported for three developer-film combinations. In general, the precision required is different for every combination. — It is pointed out that the results show there are no unknowns in aged developers, that they differ from the original formulas only in concentrations and in the presence of iodide as well as bromide. Several useful consequences are suggested."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., at prevailing rates."
"A brief history of color television and the reasons leading up to the CBS Color Television System are presented, and a general theory for color television, including color, flicker, and electrical characteristics is also given. — Equipment for color television transmission and reception has been designed and constructed based on these principles."
"Several substitutes for acetic acid are recommended for use in acid stop baths and fixing baths including white vinegar, a mixture of sodium acetate and sodium acid sulfate, sodium bisulfite, and citric acid. — Methods of testing stop baths to determine the exhaustion point are described and procedures given for their revival by the addition of acid. — A formula for a new rapid fixing bath is also given, including instructions for reviving fixing baths by the addition of acid at intervals."
"The name of this association shall be Society of Motion Picture Engineers."
"The use of training films automatically achieves standardization of instruction, and helps to take the place of many men, formerly instructors, who are now needed at sea. — The production of such training films requires thorough understanding of the subject matter of the films, and its application in practice. Furthermore, one must be acquainted with the kind of men to be taught by the films and the facilities available for teaching them. — The development and use of such films in the Navy has advanced greatly during the past six months, and has covered a vast variety of subjects."
"Motion picture production carries on in China under the most hazardous conditions of war. The industry has literally had to go underground. As protection against the Japanese bombings the laboratories and editing and storage compartments are built in tunnels as deep as thirty feet below the surface. At the alarm the equipment and portions of the sets and props are carried into the dugouts. Actors and directors go on with their rehearsing, while editors and cutters continue with their work to the hum of the approaching raiders. Thus production today in valiant China."
"The Army must train more than 2,000,000 men for the world's air fronts as quickly as possible. This requires, in addition to instructors, a streamlined program of visual education by means of training films. The Wright Field Training Film Laboratory is a most modern establishment, and is manned by the most capable and experienced producers, writers, directors, and technicians. — Some of the features described are the portable sound-truck, animation, special effects facilities, the film processing plant, and some of the equipment used at the Field."
"The documentary, scientific, and military films produced in the studios of USSR have one basic, main purpose—to show the Soviet people themselves, and the rest of the world as well, how the Soviet citizen is living and fighting; how, as a result of the war, factories and plants have been established in new localities; how the tempo of production has increased; and how the people have contributed and sacrificed to hasten the defeat of the enemy. And, despite the exigencies and demands of war, cultural, educational, and scientific films continue to be produced in greater numbers than before. The war has not hindered or stopped the cultural growth of the country."
"A spherical condenser is a simple lens of relatively large aperture. The outer portions of such a lens focus the rays much nearer to the lens than do the center portions. As a result the lens as a whole fails to produce a sharp image. This defect of the lens is known as spherical aberration. — While in the case of spherical aberration no sharp image is produced, an imagelike region of best focus does exist. This is known as the disk of least confusion. Its diameter may be minimized by shaping the lens so as to minimize spherical aberration. It is with this disk of least confusion and its required location that the designer of a spherical condenser must deal. — Without a knowledge of the properties of the disk of least confusion a designer might compute rays through a large number of trial lenses until, by an extensive and costly trial-and-error process, a condenser, having the correct shape for minimal spherical aberration and the disk of least confusion at the required location, is obtained. — The present paper examines some simple properties of the disk of least confusion. In consequence it shows how, by computing the course of a single ray through the proposed lens, a spherical condenser will result having the correct shape for minimizing spherical aberration, and the correct center thickness for its assumed diameter and edge thickness; and for which, finally, the location of the disk of least confusion is known. The method is applicable to condensers comprising more than one lens, and leads to the required design with a minimum of relatively simple trials."
"The factors upon which the optical scattering power of a photographic emulsion depend and the relationship of the former to the graininess are investigated by a method that consists in determining the ratio of two average transparencies (T1/T2) of a moving emulsion sample of uniform density with a micro-photometric device integrating simultaneously over a large (T1) and a small (T2) section of the sample. The variation of the scattering power (defined as T1/T2) with the density is determined (a) for negative emulsions: the finer grain has the larger T1/T2; (b) for a positive emulsion directly exposed and printed through various types of negative emulsions: T1/T2 is independent of the resulting graininess; (c) for positive emulsions printed with white and ultraviolet light: T1/T2 is not affected by the wavelength of the printing light; (d) for a positive emulsion with varying gamma (0.44 to 2.5): no influence upon T1/T2 by gamma is observed."
"The routine of portable television programing may be termed “applied” television engineering. The preceding is hardly more than a byplay of words, but is intended to convey the impression of an engineering technique evolved to put a program across regardless of extenuating circumstances. The emphasis is not on engineering, but on the program, with engineering as one of the tools used in accomplishing the program. — The essentials of the technique are set forth. Proper preparation requires constant servicing of equipment when the latter and staff are available. A pre-program test several hours before program time is essential to consistent performance and allows reasonable time for correcting installation or transportation-caused faults. A suitable equipment “warm-up” period precedes the program. Service failures during the program are usually unpredictable but must be met by prompt diagnosis and repair. A thorough knowledge of the many circuits, normal and abnormal operational characteristics thereof, and the “knack” of finding trouble are requisites of this aspect. — Experience in the technique eliminates certain difficulties by methodical preparation. The television engineering attributes of a program location are tested and recorded prior to the arrival of equipment. Voltmeter, dummy load, photometer, field glasses, and photographic camera comprise the preliminary lest equipment. — Significant experiences in televising 140 separate portable programs of the Don Lee Television Station, W6XAO, Hollywood, are recited."
"Spectral energy distribution measurements of the light at the center of the projection screen have been made for a number of arc lamp and carbon combinations employed in motion picture projection. ICI color-coördinates and color-temperatures have been calculated and show that the various high-intensity combinations give chromaticities and color-temperatures which agree closely among themselves. The spectral-energy distribution data of both low and high-intensity lamps and carbons show marked similarity to black-body curves."
"A new 13.6-mm super high-intensity carbon designed for 170-ampere operation gives a substantial increase in light over either the old 180-ampere 13.6-mm super carbon or the 125 to 150-ampere new regular 13.6-mm carbon described previously.6The new regular and super carbons are compared with the old carbons as to light available on the screen and as to efficiency of light production."
"The consumption of the positive electrode of an arc between solid carbons in air results partly from evaporation and partly from oxidation. The oxidation is operative chiefly on the sides of the carbon, tapering the end of the electrode-and thus producing a tip with a diameter 1/2 to 5/8 that of the original carbon. The consumption of the flat tip, or crater, however, is due almost entirely to evaporation. The evaporation rate is controlled by the pressure of carbon vapor at the crater surface and the mechanism of diffusion away from it. This diffusion was computed on the assumption that it is similar to that occurring in the evaporation from liquid drops of the same diameter as that of the carbon crater, and it was shown that the linear electrode consumption should be inversely proportional to the crater diameter. This was borne out approximately by measurements of consumption rates made near the overload current. The absolute values of the consumption rates are consistent with the hypothesis that the surface temperature of the positive crater is at or near the sublimation temperature of carbon."
"Feedback affords controlled and undistorted damping of light-valve resonance. All electromechanical devices can be regarded as feedback circuits if their motional impedance is interpreted as a feedback counter-emf. Auxiliary amplification of this counter-emf produces stabilized motional feedback. Depending on whether the amplifier counter-emf is proportional to amplitude, velocity, or acceleration, the feedback tends to flatten amplitude, velocity, or acceleration response characteristic. The light-valve is a mechanically resonant device operated on an amplitude basis but with a velocity counter-emf. Velocity feedback increases the effective damping of the light-valves; reactive components in the electrical driving impedance and in the feedback-gain tend to shift the resonance frequency. At 0.71 of critical damping the steady-state frequency characteristic is peakless and the valve follows transient impulses quickly with only 6 per cent overshooting. The maximum “bucking power” opposed to the valve motion by the feedback amplifier occurs at 0.58 of ribbon resonance and is 8 db less than the low-frequency power of the driving amplifier. — An amplifier is described that has been designed in accordance with the theory for application of stabilized feedback to commercial light-valves."
"An analysis of fractional take-up devices in general use discloses the reasons for their failure or improper operation. An improved friction clutch is described and analyzed, which embodies means for canceling the effect of a varying coefficient of friction encountered at variable slip speeds, thus maintaining a constant torque at the take-up spindle. Automatic declutching occurs when the load exceeds the amount of torque transmitted, thus protecting the film from excessive tension, and eliminating declutching levers and ratchets when rewinding. The novel construction enables bidirectional operation, both in direction of rotation and in direction of transmission of torque."
"A 35-mm motion picture projector mechanism is described. A theoretical discussion of the operation of single and double-shutter mechanisms shows the advantages of each and covers points that should be considered for improving screen reproduction from mechanisms generally."
"Increasing interest in exposure meters is noted, with a concerted effort on the part of one manufacturer to provide studios with improved specially designed meters for each studio's individual need. “Arc” and “Inkie” equipments are being used more interchangeably on black-and-white and color sets as their respective design fits the cinematographers needs."
"Collecting and circulating important films of the past is not as dusty an occupation as it sounds. Even the mechanical acts of collecting and preserving film involve the human factors: people feel strongly about works that they themselves have created, criticized, or merely seen, and the collection of films both in this country and in Europe has been fraught with emotional, financial, and political complications, while the number of illustrious personalities who have in one way or another become involved in the Museum of Modern Art Film Library's work is evidence of the ability of even the most ancient fragments of celluloid to retain a contemporary as well as an archaeological interest. — Circulation of the Film Library's motion picture programs has proved illuminating in its revelation of the attitude taken toward the film medium by all varieties of persons. The purpose has been to provide students with the opportunity to form a critical attitude by examining important films at first hand. There has gradually grown up a new appreciation which has learned not only to marvel at the rapid development of this new medium but also to discern its enormous and largely untapped potentialities."
"Increasing productivity is the most important job today. It will not be done by “speeding up.” Work simplification, using motion pictures as the main tool, helps everyone in an organization to find “the one best way.” Applications of the motion picture in such studies are described in the paper, as also a specially designed projector for exhibiting the pictures."
"The expansion of the Navy requires expansion in personnel as well as in materiel. The expansion in personnel means the provision of literally hundreds of thousands of men trained in the operation of complicated equipment. — Naval training is usually conducted by skilled officers. At present, officers who might normally be assigned to training duties are required for operations at sea. The number of men to be trained has increased enormously, and the number of fields in which they must be trained has also increased because of the development of new technics and materiel. New inventions have brought about the need for training in fields in which there is virtually no experience and concerning which only a few experts have knowledge. — The Navy believes that the use of audio-visual aids will be of tremendous help in this connection. These can not entirely replace the skilled and experienced officer, but they have certain very definite advantages. One of these is the standardization of instruction, so that men trained at every activity will have interchangeable skills. Another is the supplementing of the instructor who may not have had much pedagogical experience or be an able teacher, although he may have ample knowledge of the subject. The third is the stimulation of the interest of the trainees. It is possible through visual aids to give them a more comprehensive picture of the application of the technic they are learning to general naval operations than is normally possible during training. The armed forces of the United States, guided by such considerations as these, are carrying the use of audio-visual aids for training purposes beyond civilian experience with these media. It is to be hoped that the experience gained and the technics developed will be of value in the future for civilian purposes."
"A brief account of the various uses of the motion picture camera in the Army Air Forces. A number of examples of such uses are given and it is pointed out that new demands coming in regularly make it reasonable to believe that the only limitation of the use of motion pictures in the total war effort will be the number of cameras and cameramen available."
"Civilian defense involves many technical problems in the solution of which the highly specialized talent of the SMPE may be of great assistance. Theaters in England continue to operate during bombings and it is planned to continue their operation in the United States, due to the important part which they play in maintaining morale. — New responsibilities have been placed upon theater management, in the preparation of their theaters and the training of their staffs to meet the new emergencies. The Motion Picture Theater Industry has risen to its new responsibilities."
"Ten years ago the young Soviet motion picture industry was merely in the embryonic stage and had no basic technical facilities to cope with the problems inherent in the new industry. — At present there are factories in the Soviet Union producing equipment, films, and accessories for the motion picture studios and theaters. — In recent years many studios have been rebuilt and adapted for sound motion pictures and a number of technical problems connected with it were solved. As for the near future, there are improvements to be made in the quality of raw films as well as further improvement in the printing and developing technic."
"With the appearance of the part-talking film “The Jazz Singer” in 1927 a new era began. Talking films had been introduced before, but not until then had the engineers solved the problem of amplifying as well as of recording and reproducing sound. As often, technical invention preceded creative use and at first the new machines were used clumsily. Yet it is well to recall the character of certain primitive talkies in order to understand what the elements were which stirred the wonderment and curiosity of the public, and it is the only effective way of appreciating the speed and ingenuity with which this apparent retrogression in film-making was overcome during the next few years."
"Last Fall, by recommendation of the Board of Governors of the Society, and by vote of the membership at the 1941 Fall Convention of New York, the name of Edwin S. Porter was added to the Honor Roll of the Society, and appears on the back cover of each issue of the Journal. The following article is a contribution to the Report of the Historical Committee prepared by J. E. Abbott, Chairman, and Richard Griffith, member of the Committee."
"Photography has played a major role in the development of art interest in America chiefly because of its mass appeal and ease of execution. The early growth of art photography was slow but with the formation of an increasing number of camera clubs, and finally several national groups, the movement was fastly accelerated. With the coming of the miniature camera and the successful organization of the Photographic Society of America the continual progress of photo-pictorialism was assured."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic copies may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y. Micro copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Bibliofilm Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., at prevailing rates."
"These standards specifically cover the following types of bushings (a) Outdoor bushings for large apparatus. (b) Cover type bushings for small apparatus. (c) Indoor bushings for all types of apparatus except dry type instrument transformers, air-blast transformers, dry type regulators, and circuit breakers rated below 5,000 volts, and non-oiltight oil circuit breakers rated 50,000 kva or less. These standards are not intended to apply to wall bushings, cable potheads, nor insulators for backconnected disconnecting switches, although many of the principles may be applicable. The bushing requirements as specified in these standards apply to bushings when mounted for testing in accordance with specified arrangements as given in the Test Code (Appendix I). Requirements when installed in apparatus should be covered by standards for such apparatus."
"These standards cover assemblies of switchgear devices such as switches, interrupting devices, control, metering, protective and regulating equipment with associated interconnections and supporting structures. These standards do not apply to industrial control equipment, communication switchboards and switching equipment, or switchboards for shipboard."
"The standards of this section apply to grounding transformers, and to resistors, reactors, capacitors, and combinations of these, when used for grounding the neutrals of alternating-current electric systems."
"Test results and general performance of electrical apparatus, conductors and materials frequently are influenced by conditions such as Temperature, Pressure, Altitude, Density and Humidity of the surrounding air or other medium. For comparative results, it is necessary to standardize the conditions under which tests are made or to which test results are corrected. This pamphlet serves as a guide in the preparation or revision of standards for apparatus or materials of specific types or fields of use. If a particular existing standard calls for other provisions, the existing standard should be followed. The values given are not mandatory, but are recommended for use in preference to other values unless there are good technical or economic reasons for using others. The values recommended have in general been selected to agree with well-established practices. Provisions are made for a great variety of conditions and for widely different apparatus and materials, some of which may be of practical importance only under unusual circumstances. In any individual standard, only those quantities of real practical importance in the particular case should be used. When ranges are suggested, it is generally with the thought that acceptance tests may be made within that range. Tests may be made outside the range, if acceptable, and agreed upon correction factors are available. Preferred Numbers are suggested in many cases where there is no established practice."
"In this Standard are set forth methods for the measurement of test voltages and wave shapes used in dielectric tests of electric apparatus or insulating material. These tests are in three classes: 1. Puncture tests. 2. Flashover tests.3. Voltage proof tests. The tests may involve the use of alternating current, direct current, or surges from surge generators. Different pieces of apparatus may require different dielectric tests, some requiring power frequency or direct current tests only; other apparatus may require surge tests in addition. The specific requirements for any particular type of apparatus will be found in the Standard dealing with that type of apparatus. This Standard deals with the measurements themselves."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"In summing the progress as represented by the numerous publications during the past year on the subject of anomalous dispersion, several observations have been made. First, the theoretical contributions have been reduced, no doubt due to the war effort, and various reports are on very widely separated topics. Second, more quantitative studies have been made on the dielectric dispersion of high molecular weight compounds with further correlation of electrical properties to other physical properties. Third, there has been an extension in the ranges of frequencies to which the materials were subjected in determining the dispersion effects. It is still desired that in further work the spectrum of frequencies will be more extensively employed. Fourth, it is gratifying to know that several excellent presentations have been made on a quantitative basis concerning the chemical changes taking place under carefully controlled conditions. It is again urged that the different research workers give more attention not only to the purity of the compounds with which they are working but also to their past history and treatment and conditions under which they are being tested. It is further believed that in several cases more definite progress could be made if many of the so-called complex phenomena were broken down into simple mechanisms with more variables under control. It may be predicted that when the present censorship on accomplishments in high alternating field technique is revealed after the war still more accelerated progress will be experienced. However, from the information afforded in the papers of the past year, it is very definite that high frequency dispersion measurements correlated with other physical phenomena are contributing to a better understanding of molecular structure and behavior of insulation material."
"In discussing the developments in rubber insulation during the past year, the most obvious and compelling factor is the inauguration of a synthetic rubber program to replace our supply of natural rubber. As is well known, Pearl Harbor and subsequent developments cut off the greater portion of our supply of natural rubber. Fortunately, a moderate stock-pile of rubber from the Far East had been built up. To this was added a surprising amount of natural rubber Which was afloat at the time of Pearl Harbor, in addition to Malayan, Java, and Sumatra stocks gotten into ships before their respective falls."
"The importance of moisture content of Manila paper on the life of insulation, when immersed in transformer oil, is shown by the work of F. M. Clark (1). The mechanical strength of cellulose insulation is reduced by half for each 100% increase in water content up to 0.5% of its dry weight. This rapid decrease in mechanical strength is attributed to aqueous ionization of acidic substances resulting from oxidation or the transformer oil and cellulose insulation. The instability of cellulose in the presence of strong mineral acids is well known. Organic acids such as acetic or formic, which could result from oxidation or cellulose or transformer oil, would also cause degradation at high temperatures. Qualitatively, the effect of moisture may be observed in the darkened appearance, acidity and caramel odor of cellulose insulation which has been aged without prior vacuum drying. Moisture is most effective after initial decomposition or the insulation has occurred thus substantiating Clark's theory that accumulation or decomposition products and their subsequent ionization accelerates deterioration or cellulose insulation. The effects of intermittent heating at 150 °C are additive although in the presence of oxygen this relationship holds only until the tensile strength has been reduced to 50% or its original value. In general, exclusion of oxygen results in increased life, the effect of oxidation being greatest below 120 °C. These oxidative reactions are accentuated by the presence of moisture. A new method for determining moisture content or paper insulation, immersed in mineral oils, is described."
"During the year 1942 the plastics industry expanded still further. United States production in 1941, 438,000,000 lbs., was 58% over 1940 and it is estimated that 1942 surpassed 1941 by a very substantial percentage. In spite ,of this great increase, most plastics are in critical supply. The situation existent at the beginning of 1943 has been outlined by F. H. Carman, of W.P.B. (1). Vinyl chloride resins are almost completely allocated to war insulation in spite of very great expansion."
"Judging from the published literature of 1942 on insulating oils, chemists have been concerned mainly with the usual problems connected with electrical and oxidation stability of oils in service. As in previous years, further improvements in the stability of oils for insulating applications have been suggested by modifications in refining technique, or by the use of oxidation inhibitors or stabilizers. Fundamental investigations by chemists have also resulted in contributions to the general knowledge of the complicated deterioration reactions."
"This review covers new developments in electrical ceramic insulation during 1941 and 1942. Since the literature on the subject is rather widely scattered, over trade and scientific journals, the report by no means claims to be complete; it is believed, however, that the most important developments are covered."
