"A listing of new books of interest to engineers in radio and allied fields from the publishers' announcements."
"Provides a list of recent commercial literature received by the Institute."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming meetings of interest to all I.R.E. members."
"This article reviews briefly the work done many years ago by the pioneering physicists with the so-called electric waves as well as the more recent efforts by engineers to put these waves to practical use. It also describes some of the expedients and changes of technic used to overcome difficulties as this work progressed to higher and higher frequencies. One, of fairly recent origin, is the wave-guide or hollow-pipe technic. The latter not only provides a simple and efficient way of propagating microwave power from one point to another but there have also grown from it some very interesting counterparts of the tuned circuits, the matching transformers, and the filters that have been in common use for some time at the lower frequencies. The possible bearing of this new technic on the future of electrical communications, as, for example, television, is pointed out."
"This paper outlines the vacuum-tube requirements necessary because of the increasing power of short-wave broadcast transmitters. Different ways of meeting the requirements are discussed: use of a large number of tubes in parallel; of demountable structures; or of sealed tubes. The development of a sealed tube capable of 200 kilowatts carrier output for two tubes in parallel is described. The main features of the different parts of the tube are indicated together with its characteristics. A description is also given of some of the tools and machines specially developed for the manufacture of these tubes. A broadcast center in which the tubes are used is briefly described. The salient points of the transmitting circuit and equipment are shown. A short description of high-power grid-controlled rectifiers is also given."
"An analysis of rectifier operation in principal circuits is made. The introduction of linear equivalent diode resistance values permits a simplified and accurate treatment of circuits containing high-vacuum diodes and series resistance. The evaluation of these equivalent resistance values and a discussion of emission characteristics of oxide-coated cathodes precede the circuit analysis. Generalized curve families for three principal condenser-input circuits are given to permit the rapid solution of rectifier problems in practical circuits without inaccuracies due to idealizing assumptions. The data presented in this paper have been derived on the basis of a sinusoidal voltage source. It is apparent that the graphic analysis may be applied to circuits with nonsinusoidal voltage sources or intermittent pulse waves. It is also permissible to consider only the wave section during conduction time and alter the remaining wave form at will. Complicated wave shapes may thus be replaced in many cases by a substantially sinusoidal voltage of higher frequency and intermittent occurrence as indicated by shape and duration of the highest voltage peak. The applications of these principles have often explained large discrepancies from expected results as being caused by series or diode resistance and excessive peak-current demands. Practical experience over many years has proved the correctness and accuracy of the generalized characteristics of condenser-input circuits."
"Certain aspects of the directional qualities of a nonresonant inclined vee antenna are discussed briefly. Formulas, based on the assumption of a perfectly conducting earth, are derived for the radiation intensity in two planes. These relations show that the antenna is unidirectional when center driven. Its wideband performance, combined with ease of erection and low cost should make it an attractive antenna, particularly for receiving applications."
"Foster's reactance theorem for the driving-point impedance of a two-terminal electric network is extended to more general cases comprising mechanical and acoustical as well as electrical systems. The network may contain distributed but finite elements besides the lumped ones. The driving force also may be distributed instead of being concentrated at a point. For the latter case, it is suggested that a quantity mass driving-point impedance is to be introduced, which has properties similar to simple impedance. Applications of the theorem to cases of practical importance are discussed."
"The equal-arm capacitance bridge for making radio-frequency impedance measurements gives excellent results with very little labor, provided the magnitude of the unknown impedance is not too high. If the unknown is high, and if its components change rapidly with frequency, it is desirable from the standpoint of ease of balance and accuracy of determination to shunt the unknown at the bridge terminals with a high-quality fixed condenser of known capacitance. The difficulty with this so-called shunt-condenser method has been the tedious calculations necessary to convert bridge readings into resistance and reactance of the unknown. In this paper there are presented charts which allow this conversion to be made quickly and easily. This should make possible more extensive use of the shunt-condenser method, especially in the standard broadcast band where there is considerable need for this type of measurement. In an example on the use of the charts there is pointed out a further advantage of the shunt-condenser method, the possibility for interpolation between bridge readings in the case of impedances which change very rapidly with the frequency."
"It is argued that the problem of war production, in radio as elsewhere, is to keep output in line with the requirements of war. That involves synchronizing the various kinds of output. It requires that the factors of production, namely, facilities, materials, manpower, be available where needed. The War Production Board (WPB), in co-operation with the Armed Services, is endeavoring to minimize these problems. Within the Radio Division there are three groups which handle the three major problems of war production. There is a program group which keeps abreast of the requirements for military electronic equipment. Another group, working primarily with the B-1 components, sees to it that critical materials are delivered at the right time and delivered to the right places. A resources group makes certain that equipment and facilities of the industry are adequate to meet the schedules which have been set. There is a separate group in full charge of the maintenance of our civilian radio equipment. Finally, there is a new Radio Field Operations section working within the WPB regionaloffice structure, which assists the manufacturers at their plants, helping to solve their specific problems outside of Washington. An Engineering Advisory Section closely watches the developmental work going on in the laboratories in order that, when new devices reach the production stage, there be facilities to undertake the production swiftly; and also that these new designs use the minimum critical materials and components. We welcome any suggestions from The Institute of Radio Engineers which will assist the WPB, the Services, and Industry, to reach our 1943 objectives."
"World War I clearly demonstrated the economies which engineering standards provide. To obtain such benefits in the radio field at this time, the War Committee on Radio is developing, under the war procedure of the American Standards Association, standards for radio components. The wartime and peacetime procedures of preparing standards are described. To be most useful, single designs of components must be chosen which are suitable for all military and naval conditions which may be met all over the world, and each part must carry unchanged its own identification number throughout all of the branches of the Armed Services. These standards must not only give complete instructions to the manufacturer who produces the component but must also provide the equipment design engineer with all the data he needs. To permit the inspection of components by personnel with sharply limited engineering knowledge, the standards are written in simple language and mathematics and other complexities are avoided."
"The design of military communication equipment must consider, among other factors, the effect of varying temperature on the equipment. The commentor feels that Mr. Bushby's article, although very opportune, omits the discussion of a very basic point to his whole article on page 548 where the premise of finding the smallest average drift factor θ over the frequency range is assumed. This criterion is not the most desirable condition. In replying, Mr. Bushby shows that the condition for minimum average drift factor (/θ/) throughout the range can be demonstrated geometrically."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following indicated admissions and transfers of memberships have been approved by the Admissions Committee. Objections to any of these should reach the Institute office by the date specified herein."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming meetings of interest to all I.R.E. members."
"The paper is intended to stimulate thought. The art of conveying intelligence to a distance is looked at broadly in terms of the underlying physical dimensions of energy, time, and space. These dimensions connect each individual with the outside world. The original information, which is to be transmitted, itself partakes of them as does the system over which the information is to be projected. One sees in the free electron in vacuous space the ideal means for supplying the appropriate carrying energy and of renewing it en route. In the time dimension, or its inverse, the frequency spectrum, one can trace an underlying trend which courses through the whole history of electric communications and that now leads to very high frequencies and an enormous accretion in intelligence-carrying capacity. In the spacial dimension, of distance and direction, one recognizes not only the conquering of distance but also the conserving of space by the directing and guiding of the radiation, representing further advance in the kinds and amounts of intelligence that may be conveyed. Altogether the trends toward new electronic instrumentalities, the higher frequencies, and wave propagation more sharply demarked in space, spell enlarged opportunities and new horizons."
"The principle upon which the operation of direct-reading wattmeters is based has been known for many years. The contribution of this paper lies in the application of this principle to a practical operating instrument for the measurement of high power at radio frequencies. Two instruments are described. The first is useful in the range of frequencies from 500 to 2000 kilocycles. This instrument contains circuits which permit operation at any frequency in this band with no tuning or other change in the instrument. The second instrument operates in the region near 50 megacycles. It is inherently a single-frequency device constructed from sections of transmission lines. The theory of operation is discussed, as well as calibration methods. Test data taken with the instruments with loads having a wide range of power factors are compared with power measurements made on water-cooled loads."
"This paper deals with the development of a wideband oscilloscope intended for use as a precision-measurement tool. The means by which the performance specifications were determined are outlined, and a discussion is given of the methods by which these objectives were obtained. The various technical problems, such as compensations for both low and high frequencies, the design of attenuator and inverting networks, and test methods, as well as the theory of operation of certain of the components are discussed."
"When subcarrier frequency modulation having a frequency range of 1600 to 2000 cycles was used for transoceanic facsimile transmission, pictures were obtained with finer detail and better half-tone quality than those transmitted by previous systems; the speed of transmission could also be increased. An extension of the system to a two-way multiple-channel radio-relay circuit providing teletype service between New York and Philadelphia gave improved stability of operation when variations in signal strength occurred."
"This paper is in five parts, of which this is the first, and includes material prepared by the authors for a lecture course given during 1941-1942. At ultra-high frequencies the fluctuation noise of tubes and circuits in the receiver is sufficiently greater than antenna noise and other forms of interference so as to limit the reception of weak signals. Signal-to-noise ratio is often one of the chief problems in reception at ultra-high frequencies. The bandwidth of the receiver is also of great importance, both for the determination of the maximum speed at which intelligence can be received and for the determination of the total noise which will be encountered. Circuit and noise bandwidth are not always the same and are distinctly separated in the analyses. Finally, selectivity is a third important aspect of ultra-high-frequency reception. It is shown that the receiving antenna \"captures\" an amount of the transmitted power which, at a given wavelength, depends only on the directivity. Thus, receiving-antenna design is chiefly concerned with directivity, which determines the maximum signal-to-noise ratio and with bandwidth, or Q, which determines the useful frequency range. The Q of the half-wave dipole is determined by its surge impedance which in turn depends on the ratio of diameter to length of the conductors. The antenna Q is low even for small diameters and is lowered even further by the receiver load. Coupling the antenna to the receiver requires low-loss transmission lines and proper impedance matching."
"The fundamental principles involved in the operation of velocity-modulation tubes are discussed with particular emphasis upon physical concepts. The relation of these devices to familiar low-frequency tubes is examined. The operation of several devices for the production of velocity modulation is considered, and several methods of converting a velocity-modulated beam into an intensity-modulated beam are explained. The behavior of the Klystron amplifier is considered on a kinematic basis, and is illustrated by means of the Applegate diagram. Phase shift in the Klystron is discussed in terms of electron transit time, the mechanism of bunching and catching, and the orientation of the coupling loops. The Klystron oscillator is considered in terms of general oscillator theory. The values of accelerator voltage required are developed in terms of the feedback coupling and the dimensions of the tube. The operation of the cavity resonators is explained in a qualitative manner. (A more detailed discussion of cavity resonators appears in an earlier chapter of the book.) The inductive output amplifier is discussed and its operation is compared with that of true velocity-modulation tubes."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents announcements of new books of interest to engineers in radio and allied fields - from the publishers' announcements."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following indicated admissions and transfers of memberships have been approved by the Admissions Committee. Objections to any of these should reach the Institute office by the date specified herein."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A brief biography of John Stone Stone is given highlighting his professional achievements."
"Part I of this paper included the fundamentals of the Columbia Broadcasting System color-television system and the general application of colorimetry to color television. The equipment used in this color method was described. Part II deals with improved receiver-tube phosphors and the attendant changes in transmitter color characteristics. The color-reproduction theory is extended to include changes in gamma and the action of the color mixer. An automatic color-phasing system is described. Sixty-cycle interference in viewing tubes and its prevention are reported as investigated. Work on the problem of increasing definition of color television by use of a wider frequency band is described, and some considerations of certain possibilities of large-screen color-television pictures are given."
"The radio sonde has been developed in recent years as a practical instrument for transmitting information from the stratosphere. This paper discusses some of the problems connected with the application of the radio-sonde principle to the radio meteorograph and also to the cosmic-ray radio sonde."
"From well-known formulas for space-current in diodes and for amplification factor in triodes, interelectrode capacitance, plate current, and potential distribution in triodes and multigrid tubes are determined through use of the concept of planes of equivalent potential. By the same means, amplification factor in multigrid tubes is derived."
"The signal-to-noise ratio of radio receivers depends in part upon tube and circuit admittances and upon noise sources present in tube and circuit elements. Tubes operating in a linear fashion can be represented by a 4-terminal network consisting of admittances, of which the most important are the input, output, and feedback admittance, and by two constant-current generators of which the more important is the one which determines the transadmittance. The input admittance of conventional type tubes is determined-largely by: 1. ohmic losses; 2. interelectrode capacitances; 3. electrode self and mutual inductances; 4. lead self and mutual inductances; 5. the space-charge conditions within the tube; and 6. the magnitude of the cathode-control-grid transit angle. The cathode lead inductance, which may be the most important, results in an input admittance term which varies as the first power of the transconductance, and as the square of the frequency. The cathode-control-grid transit angle introduces a similarly varying admittance term which is also proportional to the transit angle, (provided the latter is not too large). These added admittance terms are positive for the case of space-charge-limited emission and negative for temperature-limited emission. Similarly, the input capacitance is increased over the \"cold-cathode\" value in the space-charge-limited emission case and decreased in the temperature-limited emission case. The transadmittance does not vary greatly in magnitude as a function of frequency, although its phase angle may vary considerably. The feedback admittance (primarily a capacitance) may reverse in sign at a particular frequency."
"The signal-to-noise ratio of a radio receiver can best be analyzed by finding all the various noise sources and then referring them to a single point. When the equivalent-noise-resistance concept is used at the input to express the output noise of the first tube of a series, noise sources beyond this point are also conveniently referred back to this same input. Thus, a single equivalent noise resistance Reqcan be used to express all the noise sources at or beyond the first tube. In the simplest case, where noise sources at the input of the first tube can be neglected, the maximum signal at the input also gives best signal-to-noise ratio. The signal-to-noise ratio then depends on the ratio of tube input resistance (which determines the maximum signal) to equivalent noise resistance. When there is induced noise in the input of the first tube, the optimum signal-to-noise ratio is obtained by coupling the antenna somewhat more tightly to the tube input than for maximum power transfer. Although this reduces the signal at the grid from its maximum value, the reduction of impedance is more marked and causes an even greater reduction in induced noise. The optimum signal-to-noise ratio depends on the product of induced noise and equivalent noise resistance. Even when the input resistance is infinite or negative, the optimum signal-to-noise ratio is limited either by this induced noise or by the bandwidth of the input circuit."
"This paper presents a brief review of the short-wave broadcast situation in the United States at the outbreak of the war as compared to that of England and Germany, followed by a description of the expansion of short-wave facilities accomplished and planned by the Office of War Information and the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, including the considerations given recognition in the selection of locations for additional transmitters. It also includes reference to the various miscellaneous communication services utilized in releasing news from the United States to the other United Nations and neutral countries throughout the world. It further includes evidence of the effectiveness of the psychological-warfare program in Axis-occupied areas."
"Radio is essential to the command control of Naval forces. The adaption of radio to Naval needs is a complex function of the practical seagoing military officer and the civilian technical masters of the art. Time is a vital factor in speed of communications as well as in design, production, and installation of equipment. The remarkable advances in standardization and simplification of components should be carried even further. More new methods in production are needed. The results will help shorten the war and reflect themselves favorably in postwar commercial activity."
"Provides a listing of upcoming meetings of interest to all I.R.E. members."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"The economics of rating structures for electrical equipment from the view-points of manufacturing and application are considered. Methods for dealing with periodic load applications are reviewed. The present methods have certain limitations for some practical applications. An improved method for applying motors to load cycles where the motor stops and ventilation changes in the no-load part of the cycle is developed. This method is based on certain motor-loss ratios, that is, the relation between the losses dissipated with standard temperature rise running and at standstill and the losses at the nominal or short-time rating. It permits the application of service-factor or short-time ratings to periodic loads with more exactness. Attention is called to the wide variations in permissible rms current on periodic loads for different loss ratios and changes in ventilation on a motor."
"This paper describes the theory and characteristics of a new type of polyphase adjustable-speed motor and its control circuit. The system provides an a-c drive that has characteristics comparable to those of the Ward Leonard system used on direct currents. The control circuit provides starting as well as speed adjustments from 0 to 100 per cent of rated value. The power factor of the motor is either leading or very close to unity over its operating range, and consequently the efficiency is high. Low costs of this type of motor and its control system, the large speed range, the facility for rapid reversal by regeneration, and its high starting torque make it suitable for some industrial applications."
"This paper describes an electronic instrument for the measurement of the arcing time of a contact closing or opening a circuit. This measurement is accomplished by permitting a current of constant value to flow into a capacitor during the time that an arc exists across the contacts under observation; the charge accumulated on the capacitor is therefore a measure of the arcing time. The instrument also contains electronic means of measuring the charge on the capacitor, by determining the voltage existing across it at the end of the measurement. The circuit serving this purpose is a Wheatstone bridge with a tube in one arm, to whose grid the capacitor is connected, and a microammeter in the diagonal which indicates directly the amount of unbalance produced by the capacitor voltage. The application of the instrument to the investigation of a three-pole contactor is described."
"This report summarizes available data and engineering opinions on the subject of power-system overvoltages, particularly as to their correlation with system-grounding impedance. It is hoped that the report will be useful in connection with overvoltage problems for all types of power-system apparatus."
"Many electromechanical systems that are being studied in connection with the war effort have so many degrees of freedom that it is totally impractical to analyze their performance by direct calculation. It is, therefore, increasingly important to develop equivalent circuits for these multiple oscillating systems, that can be put on the a-c calculating board and so solved by direct reading of instruments. In this paper it is shown that a necessary (though not sufficient) condition for the existence of a physical model, corresponding to a given set of equations, is that the set should be a tensor equation. This follows from the fact that only quantities that are tensors can be measured by instruments. The conclusion is therefore reached that only equations that are in tensor form can be set up on the a-c calculating board. The principle is illustrated by setting up equivalent circuits with the aid of tensorial hunting equations for the determination of the steady-state, hunting, and self-excitation performance of two interconnected instrument-Selsyns, of two salient-pole synchronous machines, and of a capacitor-compensated transmission line connected to a salient-pole synchronous machine. A companion paper, ``Self-Excited Oscillations of Capacitor-Compensated Long-Distance Transmission Systems''12 contains the results of an extended study made on the a-c network analyzer with the aid of one of the equivalent circuits developed here."
"In contrast to power arcs in air, for which the dielectric-recovery voltage decreases with increasing arc current, arcs in air produced by surge currents of several hundred microseconds' duration possess dielectric-recovery characteristics that vary only slightly with current magnitude and wave shape. Even when the discharge current is prolonged at low magnitude for as long as a thousand microseconds, the rate of dielectric recovery is little affected. For this condition at times when current as high as one ampere is flowing, the transient voltage required to convert to a high current arc is quite high. The mechanism for such a discharge is different than for the breakdown of virgin air, and the initial arc drop is sufficiently high to record its transient character. It is about ten times the steady-state value at the time the crest current is reached and drops about 50 per cent in the first 20 microseconds. Photographic studies show that even at short-time intervals successive discharges do not follow exactly the path blazed by the initial discharge but occur in an air column of low dielectric strength expanding radially with time. It is indicated that the high arc temperatures diffusing in this region can be the principal factor determining the rate of recovery after the first 1,000 microseconds. A comparison is made with the mechanism of natural lightning particularly from recent data obtained on the low-magnitude portions of stroke currents between successive components."
"The paper sets forth the different operating conditions met with in aircraft generators as compared with standard types of industrial generators. It discusses certain features inherent in applications to aircraft, such as reliability and light weight. Certain requirements in both electrical and mechanical design are imposed by the fact that a plane is flying through varying altitudes resulting in changing atmospheric conditions, such as rarefication, low temperature, and ionization. Other unusual conditions are created from the motion of the plane setting up accelerating forces on the generator, as well as mechanical forces caused by engine vibrations. Because of important features such as commutation, voltage regulation, cooling, driving means, and light weight, special and unusual methods must be employed. In solving these problems the most perfect methods known in the art of building d-c machines must be resorted to, and the paper lays particular stress on the use of compensation."
"Unbalanced magnetic pull may be defined as the net sideways force between the stator and rotor of an electric machine resulting from a difference in the air-gap flux densities on opposite sides of the machine. This difference in flux density is, in general, caused by a difference in the air gaps on the two sides. There is outlined herein a method of calculation of unbalanced pull which takes into account the combined effects of saturation, parallels, and primary reactance. The increased accuracy which this method affords should make possible more accurate predictions of mechanical deflections and critical speeds."
"The rectification properties of selenium cells were first discovered in the year 1883. C. T. Fritts described them in the American Journal of Science.11,12 However, they were never used to any extent, except possibly as photocells. After the introduction of the copperoxide rectifier, research activities were stimulated, and selenium cells were again rediscovered. The first commercial cells were made in Germany in the early '30's, and, as the technique of manufacture improved, better cells were made with better life expectancy. The General Electric Company, after a period of developmental activity, started to make cells in 1938, first in its research laboratories, and subsequently a manufacturing plant was set up which permits producing cells in large quantities within relatively close electrical tolerances. This paper contains data pertaining to these cells particularly, and the information may not apply in detail to cells manufactured by other methods without some correction factors."
"The reliable performance of high-interrupting-capacity fuses in the intermediate voltage field has led to an increased interest in the application of such fuses for the higher voltages. Unfortunately, a fuse for the higher voltages cannot be made by simply enlarging or lenghthening the lower-voltage devices. To interrupt the higher currents in a reasonable structure, arc lengths must be kept short to reduce mechanical stresses. Interruption in these short distances creates high dielectric stresses external to the fuse that would endanger the operation of a device built along conventional lines. Adequate conductors for carrying the higher currents through the longer-length fuse must be moved quickly during interruption. A new high-voltage fuse in which interruption of the higher currents is acomplished in a short length without undue voltage stresses adjacent to the fuse has been developed. This fuse has a new arrangement of conductors which permits rapid extension of the arc without expulsion of any conductor parts from the fuse. All this has been accomplished with a fuse of such light weight that it permits the use of a drop-out design which is a necessity at the higher voltages to prevent subsequent flashovers caused by leakage currents. The interrupting medium is compressed boric acid which has proved very effective and reliable at the lower voltages. Repeated interrupting and mechanical tests have demonstrated the suitability of the new fuse for service on important transmission circuits."
"One of the means used by the telegraph companies for improving the speed of their service is the provision of printing telegraph circuits between their central offices and the offices of many users of the telegraph. In the beginning, circuits of that type were restricted to patrons whose volume of telegraph business and proximity to a central office justified the expense involved in their installation and maintenance. A large part of that expense, when the patrons are located remotely from the central office, is in line-wire costs. This paper describes an automatic switching means for economically enabling a large number of patrons, when grouped in one locality, to be furnished printing telegraph service with a distant central office by causing them to share the use of a comparatively small number of line wires between that locality and the distant central office. This paper also cites benefits gained from present installations."
"Airplane circuit breakers are recognized as important units in the electrical systems of military aircraft. The design of such circuit breakers can be combined with switching and contactor functions. This makes possible the use of welldeveloped switch and contactor structures. The design of such circuit breakers must provide for operation under the very exacting requirements of military aircraft service. The principal function of both manual and remote-control circuit breakers is to provide short-circuit protection. There is some question as to the desirability of motor protection for military aircraft. Many motor functions are vital to the operation of the aircraft, and it may be better to operate the motor to destruction rather than to stop at a safe temperature or load value. Where motor overload protection is desired, it is necessary to correlate circuit-breaker and motor characteristics. Both manual and remote-control circuit breakers can be made to provide for holding the circuit closed in emergency to ``force'' the motor or other equipment."
"The war, with its attendant shortage of critical materials, has led to a considerable increase in the number of tapped lines. This paper deals with the method of protecting circuits of this kind under the three headings: 1. Pilot-wire protection, a-c and d-c schemes. 2. Carrier-current protection. 3. Othér protective schemes. Directional overcurrent or network. Distance type. Three-terminal lines are classified into three types with regard to other system connections between the terminals connected by the line in question. These are further classified as to power sources to aid in analyzing limiting conditions for relay applications. Typical operating characteristics of a-c pilot-wire equipment for three-terminal lines are shown. In general in dealing with pilot-wire, carrier, and other types of protection, those problems peculiar to application on three-terminal lines are analyzed and methods given for solving some of the more troublesome problems."
"An ever increasing demand for electric power in aircraft has been felt for some time. The necessity of using an electric storage battery started the practice of accompanying it with a d-c generator, first of low current and voltage capacity, later of 50-ampere 12-volt rating, and for the past few years of 200-ampere 24-volt output. In the largest four-engine aircraft, even four generators of maximum capacity do not furnish ample electric energy. Experiments have proved so far that generation of a-c power and application of lightweight transformers, together with its conversion to direct current by means of selenium rectifiers, is entirely a reliable and practical way of attaining large, trouble-free electric plant capacity in aircraft. The subsequent pages and illustrations portray the current progress made with lightweight power transformers and rectifiers in the a-c-d-c aircraft systems. They also represent at least a partial answer to the questions raised by Lieutenant Colonel Holliday1 when he discussed problems of applications of electric power in aircraft two years ago."
"The investigation of the fractional-slot windings with respect to their harmonic (differential) leakage, to noise, and so forth, requires the knowledge of the distribution factors of their harmonics. Very valuable work on distribution and pitch factors of fractional-slot windings has been done by J. F. Calvert.1 On the basis of charts he worked out distribution-factor tables covering the actual harmonics up to the 24th. Once the chart of the winding has been set up, a simple formula can be used for computing the distribution factors of the harmonics for any three-phase fractional-slot winding. In the following paper, simple formulas are derived for the distribution factors of the harmonics of fractional-slot windings which make the layout of charts unnecessary. These formulas are similar to those of the integral-slot windings. In deriving them the usual method of attack, namely, the use of charts, had to be abandoned and the vector diagram of the different slots used instead."
"Increased production of steel alloy for the war effort has brought about a wider use of electric-arc furnaces, and with this improvements have been made in automatic regulation of electrode position. The Rototrol regulator described in this paper is of the rotating type which controls electrode position as determined by response to current in the electrode and voltage between the electrode and the furnace shell. Features and performance of a typical installation are illustrated."
"A method is presented for finding the zeros of the impedance or admittance function of a Foster reactance network. More generally, the method is one of finding the zeros of a rational function having alternate zeros and poles, all of which are simple, if the poles are known; or of finding the poles if the zeros are known. The method consists of writing the function as a sum of partial fractions and replacing all but two of the fractions, depending on the zero to be found, by a constant and solving the resulting quadratic equation. In this way an upper and lower bound of a zero may be found, and, if need be, the method may be applied repeatedly to give a pair of bounds which will be as close to the required zero as necessary. The method has particular value if the rational function is the impedance or admittance function of one of Foster's reactance networks, since these functions are obtained directly from the networks as sums of partial fractions of the form An/(Bn2 -ω2) Hence, the zeros may be obtained without reducing the function to the polynomial form. The new method may not always be shorter in application than other known methods, but its advantage lies in the facility with which an upper and lower bound of the required zero may be found and in the possibility of dealing with the partial-fraction form of the impedance or admittance function."
"One of the advantages of the application of mercury-arc rectifiers to large electrochemical loads, such as aluminum cell lines, is that, if all the rectifiers are excited simultaneously, they will pick up and share the load together. This eliminates need for large d-c cell-line circuit breakers. The conventional method of starting simultaneously several ignitron mercury-arc rectifiers, widely used in large electrochemical plants, has been to energize the individual ignitor firing circuits from a master starting switch. Differences in closing time of the control contactors were reflected in proportional irregularity of load pickup between the ignitron rectifiers. Recent tests, described in this paper, show that the grids usually employed in the ignitrons for anode shielding can be used as an alternative method to energize cell lines. If all the grids are biased negatively, they will prevent current flowing from the rectifiers while the firing circuits are all energized and the switches closed in the power circuits. Then, by operating one switch or a plurality of accurately timed switches, all grids can be made positive at the same instant with the result that all the rectifiers pick up load at the same instant and share it equally."
"Advances in the theory of synchronous machines have created a number of reactance constants, and improvements in theory have led to continual refinements in methods of calculation and test. This paper presents an improvement in the calculation of the quadrature synchronous reactance, compares calculated with test results, and discusses four methods of test, one of which is an improvement in simplicity and ease of accomplishment over methods of test presented previously."
"Solution of many power-circuit problems depends upon the magnitude, duration, and frequency of occurrence of transient voltages and currents produced by circuit changes. Circuit-opening or recovery-voltage transients are fundamental in the operation of interrupting devices and may be important from the standpoint of the dielectric strength of circuit elements. Circuitclosing transients may be important from the standpoint of inrush currents and occasionally from the standpoint of overvoltages. Both types of transients may be increased greatly if restriking and repetitive interruptions take place. Transient voltages and currents resulting from circuit changes can be calculated by the classical method with the aid of differential equations or by the Heaviside method, particularly with the aid of the expansion theorem. Transients on complicated power systems are most conveniently determined by the miniature-system method introduced by Evans and Monteith and described in their 1937 AIEE paper.4 Analytical methods are useful for simple problems and are essential for those beyond the range of the a-c network calculator or when it is not available. Analytical methods are also necessary for determining the proper form of the equivalent networks for the representation of power systems on the a-c network calculator. This circumstance provided the occasion for the particular investigation for which the present paper is a partial report. This paper is devoted to the practical calculation of power-system transients and presents concepts, methods, and approximations selected with that objective in view. The paper describes a method of calculation particularly adapted for engineering work."
"The control of d-c motors was one of the first electronic-control projects. Recent developments, particularly the fully automatic and co-ordinated control of the armature power circuit and the field power circuit, have greatly increased the acceptability of these controls for industrial use. This paper describes the control functions associated with an all-electronic d-c motor drive, in which grid-controlled thyratrontube rectifiers automatically perform the variable voltage functions associated with the d-c generator, exciter, and field rheostats of a conventional motor-generator drive. In addition, the grid-control action of the thyratron-tube rectifier dispenses with the usual magnetic starting and accelerating control devices and gives superior motor performance in the matter of almost idealized constant-current acceleration and flat preset speed-control characteristics resulting from IR-drop compensation and regulated field excitation. Reversing is accomplished by magnetic reversing switches which reverse the armature terminals relative to the rectifier. Contact duty during switching is minimized by the supplementary action of the thyratron tubes which themselves serve to interrupt and initiate the armature current. Proper grid-control sequence in these same tubes causes them to act as inverters during the decelerating portion of the reversing cycle so that the rotational energy of the armature is actually pumped back into the a-c system. Stopping is normally by means of a dynamic braking resistor, although the motor may be decelerated to a stop by utilizing the inverter action associated with reversing to regenerate power back into the a-c system."
"The primary function of the normal-type oil circuit breaker is to interrupt the circuit as rapidly as possible, without disturbing the connected system, and to leave the oil circuit breaker in substantially the same electrical and mechanical condition as before. The interruption of an electrical circuit is always accompanied by an arc, and it has been found that if the arc and its associated space are rapidly cooled or dethermalized it is readily extinguished. This paper describes dethermalizing arc quenchers that cause the arc and its associated space to be cooled by the controlled flow of oil through and around the arc. The action of these quenchers has been verified by field tests on the 16-kv and 220-kv systems of The Southern California Edison Company Ltd."
"This paper describes a new one-cycle directional overcurrent relay which is not limited in its application by lack of contact co-ordination. That contact coordination is important is indicated by the many incorrect relay operations which have been traced to the common practice of adding instantaneous attachment to directional overcurrent relays. For years it has been known that directional control is not sufficient for instantaneous directional over-current relays. This paper describes a new application of ``memory action'' which for the first time complements directional control to give always correct operation. The new idea is to use ``memory action'' to obtain a time delay in the operation of the overcurrent unit in the order of one-half cycle. Of course ``memory action'' is also used in the directional element to retain a high torque level even if the fault causes drastic voltage reduction. Both elements are of the rugged induction cylinder."
"This paper is a continuation of ``Effect of Frequency on Let-Go Currents''2 and concludes studies made to determine let-go currents. This paper extends the analysis to cover various wave shapes and includes a method of determining reasonably safe currents for men, women, and children, for sine waves, direct current, and complex wave forms containing both a-c and d-c components. As in previous papers, conclusions regarding reasonably safe electric currents are based on the criterion that a safe current is the let-go current for 99½ per cent of a large group of healthy subjects."
"This paper on electric shock covers the subject of sine-wave let-go currents for both men and women and contains an analysis which permits improved accuracy in predicting the response for large groups based on experiments made on a relatively small number of subjects. It should be of especial interest to persons who have had accidents in which they barely escaped ``freezing'' to an electrified conductor and also to those interested in electrical safety. The range of frequencies covered is from 5 to 10,000 cycles and also direct current. The paper is the most comprehensive treatment of the subject yet published as the analysis permits predicting currents of a specified degree of safety for both men and women for this wide frequency range."
"So far as can be determined, the development of the concepts of wear resistance, wear resistivity, wear susceptance, and wear susceptibility as given in this paper is thoroughly new and original. These concepts are believed to be significant and useful tools that may further an understanding of the basic problems of sliding electrical contacts. For example, they offer means for making a valid comparison of brushes and brush materials insofar as wearing qualities are concerned. Moreover, they provide a clue to the proper consideration and evaluation of the large number of variables that are at work as brush disintegration takes place."
"The increase in airplane electrical loads has made necessary an increase in the distribution voltage to avoid excessive copper weight. Difficulties in the use of higher d-c voltages are mentioned, and past experience with a 400-cycle three-phase system is outlined. In the light of this experience and of new developments in progress, requirements are outlinied for a larger 400-cycle system with multiple generating units operating in parallel."
"Existing industrial practice for determining the temperature rise of d-c machines is based on measurements with thermometers, placed on exposed or accessible surfaces of the machine. Tests using resistance measurements with improvements in technique have disclosed the existence of considerably higher internal temperatures than those indicated by thermometers, especially for short-time rated machines. Experience has indicated, nevertheless, that such machines have entirely satisfactory service records. Greater accuracy and consistency are possible with the resistance method, with proper measurement techniques, and it affords a truer indication of winding temperatures. This paper, therefore, suggests that the resistance method should be more generally used and should ultimately be recognized in the Standards as is now the case for railway motors. With this in view, detailed recommendations for resistance-measurement technique are presented. Correlation of the temperature rises determined by the resistance method with those measured by the thermometer method is necessary if resistance methods are to supplant the now standard thermometer methods. This paper shows the relation existing between temperature rises measured by thermometer and those measured by resistance on variously ventilated and insulated machines. Values for temperature limits measured by resistance for continuous and short-time rated class-A and class-B insulated d-c machines are presented. These are consistent with the recently published AIEE Standard 1A ``Report on General Principles for Rating of Electrical Apparatus for Short-time, Intermittent or Varying Duty."
"Electric generating and distribution systems are capable of performing natural oscillations of frequency and of power, superposed upon the ordinary operation and sometimes disturbing the regular behavior of the system or its parts. These oscillations are due to the interlinked cooperation of the prime movers with their speed-governing mechanisms, the synchronous generators, the ramified network, and the numerous induction motors, and similar power consumers. Since most of the machines and network branches usually are different in size and in individual design, a multitude of natural oscillations will develop, the frequency spectrum of which can be divided into three groups. In perfect condition of the system, a single very low frequency develops, which is determined by the inherent properties of all speed governors and servomotors together, and by the inertias of the rotating masses of all the generators and motors together. This joint natural oscillation has a period around 10 to 20 seconds and causes an inphase movement of all mechanical parts of the system, which can be of considerable magnitude, while the electric power may oscillate in phase opposition within the various parts of the system. The next group of frequencies contains as many natural oscillations as there are different synchronous machines in the system and is defined by the faster electromechanical oscillations occurring between each synchronous generator and the entirety of all the other synchronous and induction machines."
"The Sorocabana Railway electrification is noteworthy in that the railroad is a meter-gauge line run largely on wood fuel. The lack of suitable national coal or oil sources and the increasing difficulty of obtaining wood fuel led the railway to electrify its line between São Paulo and Santo Antonio. Rolling stock is outstanding in that the locomotives will be the most powerful 3,000-volt narrow-gauge units ever built. The multiple-unit cars are the first 3,000-volt meter-gauge units to be used. The distribution system is designed to minimize the use of steel supports. Steel must be imported, and locally made concrete poles are to be utilized extensively. The power-supply system using 3,000-volt mercury-arc rectifiers is the first installation in this hemisphere to use rectifier conversion with regenerative braking on locomotives. Regenerated energy returned to the substations will be dissipated in resistors roofmounted at the several stations."
"Measurements of coupling factors between ground wires and phase conductors, as a function of ground-wire voltage, have been made for a sufficient number of cases to determine them for any of the standard transmission-line configurations. It was found that the effect of corona can be expressed in terms of an effective corona ground-wire radius to be used in the conventional coupling-factor equations. Curves are also presented for the quick determination of coupling factors for all standard line configurations. A photographic study of the visual characteristics of surge corona was made for a comparison with the effective radius and with 60-cycle corona. Actual measurements were made for potentials up to about 2,000 kv, but the data were extrapolated to 6,000 kv with what is considered to be reasonably good accuracy. Coupling factors for positive polarity were found to be considerably higher than those for negative polarity and both higher than values previously calculated from purely theoretical considerations. For a potential of 1,000 kv the actual coupling is 1.2 to 1.5 and 1.4 to 1.8 times as great, for negative and positive polarity respectively, as the values obtained by assuming no corona. At 2,000 kv the corresponding figures are 1.4 to 2 and 1.6 to 2.7 respectively, and at 4,000 kv 1.7 to 2.9 and 2 to 4. Ground-wire size was found to be unimportant above about 200 kv and, therefore, need not be considered."
"Many factors must be considered in establishing safe ratings for overhead copper line conductors. Most important is the low-temperature annealing and loss of strength of the hard-drawn copper itself. Others are the effect of atmospheric conditions and line location relative to structures and topographical features tending to obstruct the wind. The actual construction details of the line, such as ground clearances, conductor splices, and connectors are pertinent, as are the policies of the personnel responsible for maintaining the line. This paper attempts to show how these factors can be evaluated to establish operating ratings, indicating how readily available data can be utilized, pointing out the lack of completely satisfactory data on other points. Procedure is stressed rather than results, as the influence of local conditions upon many of the factors precludes publication of ratings which are entirely safe to apply without careful investigation of the effect upon the particular copper conductors to which they are to be applied."
"It has been indicated that there is a growing interest in the possibilities of multiwinding transformers with five windings. The lack of a suitable equivalent circuit for this type of transformer has retarded some of these engineering analyses. This paper presents a practical equivalent circuit, together with a development of the necessary formulas. Numerous mathematical manipulations have been omitted in the interest of brevity. Several of these manipulations are the key to the simplicity of the final working formulas. Examples show how the various equivalent-circuit parameters are evaluated. Factors affecting the voltage regulation of a five-winding transformer are brought out with the aid of an example in which two sources of supply are present. An objective of the analysis has been to keep the equivalent circuit suitable for the calculating board. Several precautions in this connection are discussed."
"With the paired-phase arrangement, many of the difficulties associated with the transmission of large alternating currents are minimized. Nonuniform current density, including ``skin effect'' and ``proximity effect,'' is greatly reduced. This results in low a-c energy losses which combines with effective heat dissipation to produce low and uniform temperature rise. Both resistance and reactance voltage drops are very small, and voltage drop is almost perfectly balanced. Furthermore, the dimensions that produce all these desirable electrical and thermal characteristics lend themselves to convenient structural designs wherein the problems of joining adjacent bus-bar lengths, making tap-offs, support against mechanical and short-circuit forces, and insulation are greatly simplified. There are several specific features which particularly adapt the paired-phase arrangement to prefabricated enclosed bus-bar systems. Enclosure, of course, impedes heat dissipation, but the low heat generation minimizes this effect. Metallic or magnetic enclosures cause no additional losses and no increase in reactance. Structural designs are possible which facilitate erection in the field and the adaptation of standardized constructions to special installation conditions. The paired-phase arrangement has several unique properties that distinguish it from previously known arrangements. Its low voltage drop and low losses depend largely upon close intrapair spacing, dimension s in Figure 1. The interpair spacing d, or different relative pair locations, as illustrated by the three variations of Figure 1, have no appreciable effect upon voltage drop and, therefore, may be varied to obtain low temperature rise and convenient structure."
"An electromechanical calculator has been designed for the rapid solution of directional-antenna patterns. After the desired antenna parameters have been set up, the machine automatically draws the field-intensity curve to any desired scale on a sheet of polar co-ordinate paper and indicates the rms value for drawing a circle of the equivalent nondirectional pattern. The fundamental design of the calculator does not limit the number of antennas that can be used in the directional array. As the number of antennas is increased, the greater the degree of control is possible to mould the radiation pattern into the desired shape. Not only is the horizontal directional field-intensity pattern, such as used in broadcast practice, readily available, but the field-intensity contours at any elevation angle can be drawn with equal ease. The vertical radiation characteristics of the several antennas can be selected at will. This makes it possible to explore the solid contour surface of the whole hemisphere in a relatively short time and also determine the total power radiated from the directional-antenna system. The machine is also suitable for calculating the solid contour surface of the radiation pattern from a parallel horizontal antenna array."
"Loading of closed delta banks of substation transformers to a point approaching safe thermal limit results in severe over-loading of two transformers as well as decided unbalance in voltage and current when operated in open delta as a result of the failure of one transformer. By the use of mobile capacitor units with capacitors arranged in two unequal groups, the load on two transformers in open delta is reduced, regulation improved, voltage and current are balanced within operating limits, and with the aid of fans, the top oil temperatures-and consequently, the copper temperatures-are kept within safe limits. This permits proper loading of transformers in closed delta, a relatively short interruption to service or reduction in load upon failure of one transformer in a bank, and a reduction in number of transformers required for emergency use."
"Safe overloads for transformers can be determined by a modification of the American Standards Association rule for overloading to permit the use of an equivalent ambient temperature, which will result in the same loss of life as for continous operation at 30 degrees centigrade ambient and full load. Based on the rule that aging of insulation doubles for each eight degrees centigrade increase in temperature, methods are developed for calculating the equivalent ambient temperature based on United States Government Weather-Bureau records. The equivalent ambient temperature for each month is calculated as the sum of the greatest recorded monthly mean temperature plus a daily correction factor based on the greatest recorded daily range, plus a monthly correction factor based on the greatest recorded monthly range. Monthly equivalent ambient temperatures so obtained can be used in combination with load curves to determine the permissible safe load for a transformer for a given locality."
"High-voltage transmission lines, when de-energized by conventional oil circuit breakers, are often subjected to high-voltage surges which present a real hazard to terminal equipment. The mechanism of surge generation is initiated by circuit-breaker restriking phenomena which are encouraged by the interruption of the large leading currents required to charge moderate and high-voltage lines. By interposing suitable resistors across the interrupting elements during the opening stroke of the breaker, the switching overvoltages may be either eliminated by preventing restriking or so reduced in magnitude in the event of restriking that the system is relieved of their hazard. The development of this achievement is presented chronologically: 1. Theoretical considerations 2. Transient-analyzer studies 3. Power-laboratory switching tests 4. Actual field tests on the 220-kv lines of Southern California Edison Company Ltd. at Boulder power plant"
"High-voltage oil circuit breakers for high-speed operation generally use some form of multibreak contact arrangement. These breakers perform satisfactorily but lack the simplicity of the conventional slower-speed two-break construction. The development of an unusually effective multi-orifice oil-flow interrupting unit now makes it possible to reduce the required number of breaks to the point where even three-cycle 230-kv breakers appear practical with only two interrupting units per pole. High-power laboratory tests on low magnetizing and charging currents, as well as. short-circuit currents corresponding to interrupting ratings of 2,500,000 kva and above, have demonstrated the exceptional arc-extinguishing effectiveness and low arc-energy dissipation of this multiorifice interrupter for high-speed oil circuit breakers."
"Although much has been written in recent years regarding allowable over-loading of transformers, the practical matter of matching existing load curves with such allowable limits has continued to present some difficulties. The interim report of the AIEE transformer subcommittee gives one approach to the problem, taking into account the ambient temperature and the duration of the overload. However, in order to take full advantage of the transformer's inherent load-carrying ability, it is necessary to consider additional factors such as the individual transformer characteristics and the specific shape of the overload curve. This paper shows a method by which all of the influencing factors can be taken into account easily. Allowable overloads thus determined are often considerably higher than those indicated by the AIEE method. The application of the proposed method is sufficiently simple to justify a semiannual analysis of expected overloads with respect to substation-transformer emergency ratings. It consists in 1. Determining the allowable 24-hour steady overload that can be carried by the transformer without exceeding certain agreed-upon limits. 2. Converting the specific load curve to a 24-hour steady load which would cause equal aging of the transformer insulation. In this manner both the transformer load-carrying ability and the actual irregular load are reduced to a common basis for ready comparison. A 24-hour overload period is ordinarily of ample duration to allow for replacement or repair of faulty equipment."
"The paper presents a method of determining approximately the maximum continuous current-carrying capacity of conductors in overhead lines, as fixed by certain operating limits of temperature and time, beyond which it is expected that the physical characteristics of copper conductors might be materially impaired. The paper deals illustratively with conditions in the Philadelphia area, but the method is equally adaptable to any situation. The design limits of ampere ratings determined herein, are from 10 to 35 per cent higher for bare conductors, and from 10 to 20 per cent higher for covered conductors, than those previously used in the Philadelphia area. Operation at load equal to the design limit will, during 99.93 per cent of the hours in the average year, maintain copper temperatures below 100 degrees centigrade in normal operations and below 135 degrees centigrade in emergency operations."
"High-speed current-balance relaying has been subject to occasional false tripping that has not been explained satisfactorily. Field and factory tests now show that this is probably due to differences in residual fluxes in the current-transformer cores. The limiting value of these fluxes can be calculated approximately, and they can be measured with portable instruments connected to the secondary winding. They may cause a deficiency in secondary current, especially during the first half-cycle of fault current, which will cause current-balance or differential-overcurrent relays to operate falsely. This false operation can be avoided by the addition of a short inherent or external time delay with relays having a high dropout, or by the use of special current transformers."
"An air interrupter switch may be defined as a nonautomatic air switch which combines the functions of a disconnecting switch with the ability to interrupt current up to a predetermined magnitude. It primarily differs in function from a circuit breaker in that it cannot interrupt overload or short-circuit currents. General specifications for interrupter switches are proposed. The Auto-Blast interrupter switch is an air interrupter switch having each pole equipped with an arc chute into which the arc is driven by a blast of air generated automatically when the switch is opened. Interruption occurs within the chute by elongating and cooling the arc. The construction and operation of this switch is described, and test data are presented to show compliance with the proposed general specifications."
"This paper analyzes the operating characteristics of multiphase power rectifiers from the standpoint of harmonics, load balance, and their interrelation, and their effects on the apparatus and circuits to which they may be connected. These factors are considered in connection with selection of the number of rectifier phases, which varies from six (four for very small sizes) to combinations of six-phase units to form a much larger number, such as 36, 72, or even 108 phases. More specifically, the problems of harmonics, load balance, and number of phases are considered from the standpoint of the effects on 1. Apparatus, particularly turbine generators and capacitors. 2. The wave-shape distortion on circuits that may be important in inductive co-ordination. 3. The possibility of resonance being encountered in the supply system to amplify one or more of the rectifier harmonics. These problems have increased greatly because of the great number and large size of rectifier installations made in connection with the war."
"The compressed-air circuit breaker for indoor power-house service is becoming very popular. However, its use for high-voltage outdoor service is still in the field-trial stage. Several high-voltage porcelain-clad circuit breakers of American design are now in service, and their performance is being watched carefully. A 138-kv 1,500,000-kva three-pole breaker has been installed at the Kittanning substation of the West Penn Power Company. Before installation its interrupting ability was checked to 5,900 amperes with full 132 kv on a single-pole unit and on a circuit with a transient recovery rate of 3,100 volts per microsecond. The mechanical operation was tested with the breaker in a heavily iced condition at -14 degrees Fahrenheit. The air-supply system was tested at -4 degrees Fahrenheit, and both were found to operate satisfactorily. The breaker was installed on the most active line of the West Penn Power Company system. During the three months following its installation it had 41 operations, five of which were on faults. Its operation to date has been satisfactory in every detail, and it is hoped that this new device will meet operating requirements and reduce materially the time outage for servicing such apparatus."
"The current flowing to ground from an automobile, whose rear wheels were turning on a dynamometer, was measured. The magnitude of the constant current measured, in the order of microamperes, shows that the vehicle is electrically charged by conduction through the tires. The experimental results are consistent with the conception of a simple equivalent circuit. These results were checked by road tests. Calculation shows that the tires are usually conducting sufficiently to discharge a car in a short time after it has stopped moving."
"The paper discusses the various methods that have been used in cooling power transformers by forced circulation of the cooling medium, and points out the benefits 1. To the war effort in the saving of critical materials. 2. To the user in first cost, shipment, installation, station layout, and mobility. The selection of proper control equipment is analyzed from the standpoint of protection and reliability of forced cooling. The relation between hot-spot and average winding temperatures and the future for forced cooling after the war is discussed."
"The cathode-ray oscillograph because of its inherent characteristics is ideally suited and extensively used for the measurement of transient voltages associated with switching operations. The type of oscillograph ordinarily used covers a wide range of measurement conditions and is necessarily large and expensive. For this reason very few such units are available, and new problems, arising from the necessity of providing reliable service with loads increasing because of the war effort, have required every available measurement facility. In two recent applications where extremely wide-range performance was not required, a two-tube low-voltage cathode-ray oscillograph was used successfully. This oscillograph and the two applications are described, and it is shown how such measurements of long-time transients may be made with portable, inexpensive, and relatively simple equipment embodying the advantages of cathode-ray oscillography."
"The paper presents the position of the three types of motive power in railroad service and offers a brief historical background to show how each one arrived at its present status. A table lists advantages and disadvantages inherent in each type and includes supplementary information to explain the listings in the table. The subject is presented from the viewpoint of the user, and a method of determining more closely the place for each type of locomotive is suggested. An appendix lists all of the considerations which must be included in a complete cost study."
"Accurate rating of transformers is one of the most important elements in the problem of providing continuous service to the customers of the utility industry. Rather than attempt to follow a general rule for the loading of transformers it is believed that the urgency of wartime needs amply justifies the effort required to place individual ratings on each transformer bank of the utility under consideration. Experience has shown that such ratings vary widely. The transformers cover a wide range of sizes, designs, manufacturers, and periods of manufacture; with weights per kilovolt-ampere ranging from 7 to 20 pounds, excitation voltages ranging from 95 to 110 per cent, their daily load factors from 25 to 100 per cent, and their seasonal loading from 0 to 100 per cent. The consequent saving of ``critical'' material is self-evident when each case is considered individually. During the war it is desirable to base station ratings on the thermal capacity of all the transformers normally available for service, rather than attempt to set up station ratings based on abnormally high emergency ratings of the remaining units after the assumed failure of one unit. It is essential that these higher station ratings be properly applied so that the danger of failure is minimized."
"For many years shellac or synthetic-resin-coated paper has been used in winding condenser bushings. Two years ago work on the development of oil-impregnated-paper condenser bushings was undertaken. When a shortage of shellac was imminent because of the war, effort to complete the development was greatly increased, resulting in its being completed well ahead of the date originally set. Manufacturing processes and impregnating treatments were developed and bushings built and tested. The processes and treatments are described, and the data obtained from tests on representative bushings are given. Complete interchangeability for transformer and circuit-breaker bushings has been obtained for current apparatus designs in the voltage ratings in which the bushings are produced. To a large extent, the new bushings are also interchangeable with bushings of older design in the same voltage rating. The entire insulating portion of the bushing is enclosed in porcelain and metal and this enables the bushing to be held in storage without special provisions for keeping it dry. The oil-impregnated-paper condenser bushings, built for voltage ratings 92 kv to 230 kv, are susceptible to careful control of quality in the processing operations. Exceptionally consistent performance and high dielectric strength are obtained. Consistently low power-factor readings on both hot and cold bushings were obtained. Radio-influence voltage measurements were below proposed standards."
"Analysis of fundamental bases of relaying made as part of the engineering for the 270-mile 154-kv interconnection between systems of Nebraska Power Company and Kansas Gas and Electric Company reveals that, of current, phase angle, impedance, and impedance angle, none alone offers satisfactory discrimination among open-circuit, short-circuit, and load conditions. Combination of input-impedance magnitude Z and impedance angle ψ=tan-1X/R is studied by means of ''impedance circle diagrams'' of the interconnecting circuit. On these diagrams is charted the dynamic behavior of the interconnected systems during faults and surges of synchronizing power. The desirable areas of trip and no trip are mapped, and general specifications for the performance of relay systems are presented in terms of impedance magnitude and angle, Z ∠ ψ. Thereby full advantage can be taken of all possible synchronizing power inherently available over the interconnection and at the same time faults and approach of out-of-step condition can be recognized properly."
"Mathematical expressions for a-c impedance and current distribution are derived for bimetallic conductors with circular symmetry. The results are illustrated by application to a copper-covered steel conductor in the frequency range up to 160 kilocycles. Measurements of the a-c resistance in the same frequency range provide a check on the theoretical results. The studies made on the copper-covered steel conductor indicate that its resistance is substantially that of its tubular copper portion alone and, for all but the lowest frequencies, may be taken from the simpler formulas and curves already available for tubes."
"This paper outlines some of the factors which should be considered in the design of d-c magnets. The usual types of steel used are briefly discussed, including their influence on ``sticking'' or residual forces. Calculated curves are presented which show the influence of pole-face area on the force developed by the magnet. Flux measurements on a number of magnets show that theoretical calculations are often in great error because of factors such as leakage and saturation which are usually neglected. Data show that the flux in a d-c magnet with a small air gap may vary by as much as 300 per cent between one part of the circuit and another."
"In laying out grounds for protection against lightning, the inductance of the installation and its relation to the effective resistance of the ground are factors of importance. The lead and ground induction ance becomes particularly significant for rapid current discharges associated with direct strokes when the inductance drop may exceed the resistance drop. Examples show that the voltages developed from steep-front high currents in extensive grounds are considerably greater than where conditions permit shallow grounds. The simple method of analysis for determining the voltage across the ground installation, in which a current is applied to an equivalent circuit, is reasonably correct and practically satisfactory. Ground installations comprising multiple paths to earth are also amenable to simplified calculations. A survey of the terminal conditions in the earth should supplement the simple method of analysis in the more important installations of grounds. In assessing the insulation requirements, these should be considered in relation to the impulse voltages developed, which for ground installations are more complex than the ordinary standard waves."
"Results and conclusions are presented from 22 staged fault tests made on a 154-kv transmission line and terminal systems to check the characteristics of new long-line relays, discussed in companion papers,1,2 which were designed to differentiate between faults and high power swings. Observed power swings and relay performance are compared with theoretical aspects and predictions. Data on the transientstability limit of the interconnection, together with observations made during the tests, are also presented. Measured values of line constants and short-and open-circuit impedances are given, together with results of attenuation tests at carrier frequencies. Manner of initiating the faults, scheduling of power flows, and organizing personnel are briefly discussed."
"It has long been recognized that excessive potentials may be developed in current-transformer secondary windings under unusual conditions, such as open circuits. Recent experience discloses that dangerous overvoltages (several thousand volts) may be produced as a result of normal switching operations on circuits containing lumped capacitance. A simple procedure for circuit analysis and evaluation of approximate voltage magnitude for the switching transient case is reported. For easy reference, there are included tables of calculated secondary voltage magnitudes covering a broad range of application. Under certain conditions, overvoltage protection is desirable and important. Aside from the potential hazard to life, current-transformer circuit insulation may be damaged, yet not be evident immediately. Performance at normal rated current may not be noticeably impaired, yet serious failure may occur in the presence of fault-current flow, thus nullifying the action of current-actuated protective relays. The characteristics of a new overvoltage protector expressly designed for current-transformer protection is presented. With this device current-transformer secondary voltages are limited to moderate values. The protector is small and compact, and easily applied to existing as well as new current-transformer installations The characteristics are permanent, not affected by repetitive operation, and result in negligible ratio error in the normal operating current range."
"In the ``Interim Report on Guides for Overloading Transformers and Voltage Regulators,''1 reference is made to the use of equivalent annual ambient temperatures in determining the loading of transformer equipment. This paper is to show a method of calculating the equivalent annual ambient temperature from readily available climatological data to avoid difficulties in other methods that have been proposed. An outline is given also of conditions under which the equivalent annual ambient temperature may be applied in determining permissible overloads for transformers."
"This paper describes certain design ideas applied to potential transformers to accomplish substantial reductions in volume and weight, with improved reliability and with better accuracy than the best requirements of the American Standards. The size of these units is such that they appear mostly as bushings. Perhaps the most striking feature of construction is the arrangement and the insulation of the high-voltage winding. Liquid-impregnated porous paper has been substituted for the combination liquid and solid used in the conventional designs. Another notable improvement incorporated in these transformers is the elimination of all gaskets. The amount of liquid insulation required is extremely small, and therefore premium insulating liquids (such as the Askarels) can be used without much additional expense."
"The successful parallel operation of transformers equipped with automatic load-ratio control and line-drop compensation requires that stability of operation be insured. In addition, experience has shown that it is frequently highly desirable that other automatic features be included which will contribute toward operating flexibility, and which will permit switching transformers in and out of parallel operation without disturbing the voltage level at the load center or causing an excessive initial circulating current at the instant of paralleling. This paper discusses the conditions which make these added features desirable, and presents a new control system whereby they all may readily be secured. In this new system, load current and circulating current are made to flow in separate paths in the control circuit, and each produce their effects independently, thereby insuring stable operation and maintaining the desired loadcenter voltage level. This separation of the load and circulating current, in conjunction with a modification in the closing circuit of the paralleling circuit breaker, also makes possible the avoidance of excessive initial circulating current when the breaker is closed. The simplicity and effectiveness of this arrangement in providing a fully automatic means for meeting all the anticipated operating requirements recommends its use in many applications."
"The demand for public transportation is increasing rapidly under present conditions of accelerated industrial activity. Adequate maintenance of electrical apparatus on rolling stock is essential to avoid impairment to the war effort. Measures which will assist to retain generators, motors, and control in service practically 100 per cent of the time are proper operation, effective inspection, preventive maintenance, keeping apparatus clean, accurate adjustments, prompt worn-part replacements, undelayed commutator conditioning, use of improved insulation, and correct lubrication. More careful attention to all of these factors during the present emergency will assure maximum rolling stock availability."
"The preceding paper of this series1 presented the theory and principles of operation of a new type of a-c motor and its control circuit. This system of speed control has the advantage of being economical from the standpoints of initial cost, efficiency of operation, and ability to correct power factor. However, these advantages are not realized unless the machine is suitably designed and its control circuit properly adjusted to supply the necessary voltages and currents. The purpose of this paper is to explain the design proportions and the adjustments of the supply voltages to provide for optimum operating characteristics."
"A core-type power-transformer design with shielded high-voltage winding and graded insulation has been developed for application in the higher-voltage classifications, and up to the present time more than one-quarter million kilovolt-ampere capacity of this kind of transformer has been manufactured and placed in service. The design employs a new form of construction for high-voltage power transformers which has been called ``distributed concentric'' construction. Outstanding characteristics of the distributed-concentric-type transformer include: 1. Reduced inherent reactance resulting in a reduction of critical materials for a given specification. 2. Ready adaptability to forced oil flow directed through the winding ducts resulting in a reduction of critical materials for a given thermal capacity. 3. Strategic distribution of voltage stress throughout the dielectric structure. 4. Simple and stable mechanical construction of windings, insulation, and shield."
"For three years surveys have been made of the operation of small singlepole automatic reclosing oil circuit breakers (also called ``oil circuit reclosers'' and ``service restorers''1) on rural electric distribution systems financed by the Rural Electrification Administration. Results of these surveys indicate that the ratio of lockouts to operations is less than five per cent in most cases, and that there are from four to nine operations per month per breaker during the spring and summer, with each breaker controlling about 20 miles of line. The number of breaker failures and other breaker difficulties have been a small percentage of the total number of breakers installed. These surveys, together with discussions with system managers, have indicated that automatic reclosing breakers offer many advantages for rural line sectionalizing. Presently available breakers can be much improved in operating characteristics, and new sectionalizing devices are needed. This paper presents suggestions for such improvements."
"This report presents the results of a survey which has been made to obtain data on typical present-day a-c automatic reclosing equipment and practices as applied to stub feeders having a single end source of power. The data received provide a good summary of the reclosing practices in general use and the performance being obtained. It also gives an indication of the possibilities of using immediate initial reclosure closure more extensively for some types of loads. This subject is of timely interest because of the possibilities of conserving critical materials in such cases where the application of automatic reclosing equipment will defer the necessity of providing additional circuit facilities."
"A capacitance bridge for the calibration of instrument potential transformers up to 300 kv is presented in this paper. This bridge provides measurements which are correct within 0.1 per cent on ratio and 3 minutes on phase angle. There are within the bridge arrangements for testing its accuracy as determined by the stability of its component arms. It is particularly desirable to have this means of self-testing if transformers are to be tested in a laboratory which does not have extensive standardizing facilities. Further advantages beyond accuracy for standardization purposes are flexibility and ease of operation for production testing, and low cost and small volume as compared to a high-voltage resistance potentiometer."
"There follows a list of some of the attendant circumstances and of the advantages which may be gained by the use of the project: 1. Thoroughly reliable power capacitors now are manufactured in great quantities by many firms. 2. Cost is much lower than in 1922. 3. By simple constructions embodying the external-pressure principles by means of which Hochstadter has demonstrated that the service insulation strength of underground high-voltage cables can be doubled for a given insulation thickness, the per-kva cost of power capacitors readily may be decreased much further. 4. By the use of power capacitors as a simple adjunct the power factor and efficiency of an induction motor may be considerably improved for all loads, light and heavy, and the stalling load may be much increased. Throughout a considerable range of load, system economies associated with a leading current will be obtained. 5. Higher-temperature service operation now is recommended, and the rating of the present highly-developed, low-temperature, induction motors may be increased by 33 per cent, without requiring any delays, since no re-designing is involved. There is required merely the substitution of the high heat-resisting insulation now available. 6. The project will permit of the conservation of considerable quantities of critical materials as the result of decreasing by 25 per cent, the per-horsepower weight of the motors. The recommendations made in this paper (and the means proposed) for increasing by 33 per cent the present service rating of general-purpose induction motors is more conservative than many will realize."
"Out-of-step protection of synchronous machines and system interconnections is now demanding serious consideration, first because the heavy loading of machines and transmission lines has introduced many stability problems and secondly, because outages resulting from out-of-step conditions may interfere seriously with the war effort. The relay subcommittee has, therefore, considered it timely to prepare a report on the subject and has appointed a working group for that purpose. The report describes briefly out-of-step phenomena, the methods of protection that are available, and a cross section of the practices and requirements of representative utility systems."
"Less important transmission lines are usually protected with directional overcurrent relays. Much better protection and consequently improved service would be provided by modern high-speed distance relays but at several times the cost. What is required is a distance relay arrangement considerably less expensive than the relays now used on high-voltage transmission lines but with as nearly as possible the same characteristics. Such an arrangement is now available. The paper describes successful tests in the laboratory and on an actual system in this country with both natural and staged faults. The equipment consists of a single high-speed reactance relay which is enabled to protect all three phases by being automatically switched to the correct potential and current by a phase selector relay."
"Now that excitation characteristics are being made available to the application engineer, it has become increasingly important that a simple accurate calculation method be used to determine the errors. ``Inphase addition'' has all the advantages of simplicity, and, under careful analysis, it is apparent that over the normal ranges involved, the more complicated procedure of vector addition is not warranted. This simple method has been extened to cover complete curve drawing from only one calculation by a graphical process."
"The features in the preceding paragraphs have been presented and discussed with the thought in mind that the information may be helpful to those who have the lightning or overvoltage protection problem to deal with. It is not intended that all of these suggestions be applied without careful study and thought; in fact, unless such a detailed study is made of systems now in use or proposed, the full benefits of the applications suggested will most likely not be obtained. It is hoped that this paper will stimulate constructive thought on the part of those who have the responsibility of designing and operating protective systems already installed or to be installed in the future. It should be kept in mind that in applying some of these suggestions, the failure rate on the protective devices themselves may increase, but it is believed that if the conditions of each situation are considered and action taken on an engineering basis, the net over-all effect will be of considerable benefit to the war effort."
"In the design and application of electrical control equipment the problem of obtaining complete field data and requirements is always present in some degree. The problem is acute in branches of the electrical industry supplying aircraft control. Three factors contribute to the difficulty: 1. The tremendous engineering effort centered in the aircraft industry causes rapid technical changes that soon make accumulated data obsolete. 2. Technical data on utilization devices are not always available to either the aircraft or electrical manufacturer. The mushroom growth and technical advance of the aircraft industry have, in some cases, outdistanced laboratory equipment and personnel capacity so the data an electrical-control manufacturer would like to have are simply not available. 3. The secrecy surrounding many aircraft developments blocks the passing of information from the aircraft manufacturer to the electircal manufacturer."
"The Amplidyne generator has been widely applied and is recognized as an important device in the electrical industry. Since it is used primarily as a power amplifier in regulating systems, the requirements of an amplifier for this use are analyzed, and the characteristics of the Amplidyne generator are compared in this paper with these requirements. Owing to the large number of distinct windings of the Amplidyne, it is desirable to follow a consistent practice in terminal markings and polarities. Proposals for this purpose are outlined in the paper, and typical values of amplification for different output ratings are given. Service experience and an application typifying the use of the Amplidyne are discussed, so that the reader may become familiar with the device and its uses."
"This chapter contains sections titled: Servomechanism Compensation by Means of Paralleled Devices, Design of Sense-Detecting Rectifiers, Design of Carrier-Frequency Compensating Devices"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Title, Copyright, Foreword, Table of Contents, Abstract, Introduction"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Under-Compensating Integral-Controller: Effect of Source and Load Resistances, Under-Compensating Integral-Controller: Inductive Circuit, Basic Lead-Controller: Effect of Source and Load Resistances, Basic Lead-Controller: Inductive Equivalent, Matching Lead-Controller, Matching Lead-Controller: Resistance of Voltage Divider Considered, Combined Basic Lead-Controller and Integral-Controller: Case I, a1=ad, Combined Basic Lead-Controller and Integral-Controller Case II, a1>ad, Combined Basic Lead-Controller and Integral-Controller Case III, ad>a1"
"This chapter contains sections titled: System Comprising Both Integral- and Controllers, Example: Third-Order Transfer-Function Servo with Basic Lead-Controller and Intergal-Controller, Integral-Controller Design Limitations, RLC Integral-Controller"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Derivatiye Controller, Basic Lead-Controller, Type I Servo with Basic Lead-Controller, Limitations Upon the Transfer-Function of Systems with Controllers, Third-Order Transfer-Function Servomechanism with Basic Lead-Controller, Third-Order Transfer-Fuction Servo with Compound Lead-Controller; Case 1: ζ3 = 1.0, Third-Order Transfer-Function Servo with Compound Lead-Controller Case 2: ζ3 > 1.0, Third-Order Transfer-Function Servo with Compound Lead-Controller Case 3: ζ3 < 1.0, Synthesis of Lead-Controllers: Generalization"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Zero Velocity-Error-Systems, Example: Application of Integral-Control to Servo with Third-Order Transfer-Function, Minimum Velocity-Error Systems, Case I: h < 1 Under-Compensating Integral-Controller, Case II: h > 1 Over-Compensating Integral-Controller, High-Gain Integral-Controller, Realization of Underecompensating Integral Control by Cascade Circuits"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Servomechanism Design Procedure, Factors Important in Servo Adjustment, Frequency Transformation, Selection of the Gain Factor “K”, Example: Servomechanism with Third-Order Transfer-Function"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Graphical Calculation of the Error and Output Functions, Nyquist's Stability Criterion, Transfer-Locus of Zero-Displacement-Error Servo, Transfer-Locus of Zero-Velocity-Error Servo, Zero Acceleration Servomechanisms, Shape of Transfer-Locus at Infinite Frequency, Ideal Zero-Displacement-Error Servo"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Example: Type I Servo, Example: Third-Order Servomechanism"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Under-Compensating Integral-Controller: Constant-Resistance Network, Basic Lead-Controller; Constant-Resistance Network, Combined Integral- and Basic Lead-Controller; Constant-Resistance Network, Matching Lead-Controller; Constant-Resistance Network, Bridge-T Equivalent of the Lattice"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Under-Compensating Integral-Controller, Basic Lead-Controller, Matching Lead-Controller, Combined Lead-Controller and Integral-Controller; Attenuation Factor Equal"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Advantages of a Closed-Cycle Control System, General Response Characteristics of Servomechanisms"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Data on generating capacity, frequency, hydroelectric power, thermal plants, transmission, and distribution in the Latin American countries are brought together in this article by an engineer who has had South American experience. Pointing out the likelihood that certain electric equipment used in Latin America will continue to be bought from the United States, he stresses the necessity of reciprocal trade as a means to harmonious relationships within the Western Hemisphere."
"Benefits derived by the engineer and by the public from the United States patent laws are surveyed here by an engineer. He discusses the opposition and the apathy of certain groups toward the American patent system and points out the importance of stimulating the interest of engineers in the attacks upon it. Although he recognizes shortcomings in the system, he urges that those of its elements “that have made the United States outstanding as an inventive nation” be retained as a foundation for a program of improvement."
"This brief exposition of the purpose and efficacy of transpositions in power lines, originally prepared for the engineers of a large midwestern power system, should be of interest to other power-system engineers and communication engineers as well."
"THE illumination of the auditorium in the Engineering Societies Building has been for several years the subject of study at the request of United Engineering Trustees, Inc., by Institute members specializing in lighting. Increased daytime use of film and slide projection had been hampered by daylight filtering through roller shades and the interior illumination had been pronounced obsolete, inadequate, and difficult to maintain. In an effort to improve the building facilities for their Founder Societies and associates, the board of trustees of United Engineering Trustees, Inc., undertook the modernization of this meeting hall and authorized the replacement of the false skylights with a more permanent boarding and a thoroughly modern lamp system."
"Recent developments in new types of plastics and improved manufacturing techniques of older types are enabling these materials to assume an increasingly important role in the field of electrical insulation. Their electrical characteristics are reviewed here."
"Conservation of materials by getting the most out of existing equipment will be the particular objective as an aid to the war effort for the AIEE national technical meeting to be held in New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943. On Thursday, January 28, the Institute of Radio Engineers will hold a meeting concurrently in both morning and afternoon. In the evening a joint AIEE–IRE meeting will be held, at which there will be an address on “Ultrahigh Frequencies” by Doctor G. C. Southworth of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc. Both meetings will be held in the Engineering Societies Building. In accordance with AIEE wartime policies (EE, Sept. '42, p. 477) all programmed social activities have been omitted. It is hoped, however, that there will be opportunities for members and guests to get together during the meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"With the demands of a mechanical war and of steadily growing armed forces, the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard are in need of a flow into their respective services of large numbers of young men who require specialized, educational, technical training. Their own facilities of teaching staff and equipment are not sufficient for these needs. The colleges and universities will have such facilities available. Consequently the armed services together have formulated plans to utilize for these needs to the maximum practicable extent the resources of these colleges and universities. In formulating these plans, they have had the benefit of fruitful consultation with many educators, and particularly the staff of the War Manpower Commission, a committee of the American Council on Education, and the Navy Advisory Council on Education. In the administration of these plans, the Army and Navy are counting on further assistance from the same sources."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without letter, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"THE tapped-winding capacitor motor is used quite commonly to obtain a two-speed fan motor with a comparatively simple switching arrangement. With the open-end type of connection as shown in Figure 1, the high-speed connection gives a normal capacitor motor, and its performance under any load may be determined by calculation with the formulas of either the revolving-field theory or the cross-field theory. When a control winding is added to the already complicated capacitor motor circuits, the analysis by the usual methods becomes even more difficult, and the calculation more involved and tedious than ever. In the following discussion a method is presented for calculating the low-speed performance. This method while not absolutely rigorous, should give results well within the limits of variation of individual motors of the same design."
"The economics of rating structures for electrical equipment from the viewpoints of manufacturing and application are considered. Methods for dealing with periodic load applications are reviewed. The present methods have certain limitations for some practical applications. An improved method for applying motors to load cycles where the motor stops and ventilation changes in the no-load part of the cycle is developed. This method is based on certain motor-loss ratios, that is, the relation between the losses dissipated with standard temperature rise running and at standstill and the losses at the nominal or short-time rating. It permits the application of service-factor or short-time ratings to periodic loads with more exactness. Attention is called to the wide variations in permissible rms current on periodic loads for different loss ratios and changes in ventilation on a motor."
"This paper describes the theory and characteristics of a new type of polyphase adjustable-speed motor and its control circuit. The system provides an a-c drive that has characteristics comparable to those of the Ward Leonard system used on direct currents. The control circuit provides starting as well as speed adjustments from 0 to 100 per cent of rated value. The power factor of the motor is either leading or very close to unity over its operating range, and consequently the efficiency is high. Low costs of this type of motor and its control system, the large speed range, the facility for rapid reversal by regeneration, and its high starting torque make it suitable for some industrial applications."
"“RELAYS have been available for years capable of providing selective high-speed protection if — and it is a big IF — the intelligence transmitted to the relay closely approximates the truth.” This statement, recently made by a protection engineer, is a true statement, the import of which is not always fully recognized."
"This paper describes an electronic instrument for the measurement of the arcing time of a contact closing or opening a circuit. This measurement is accomplished by permitting a current of constant value to flow into a capacitor during the time that an arc exists across the contacts under observation; the charge accumulated on the capacitor is therefore a measure of the arcing time. The instrument also contains electronic means of measuring the charge on the capacitor, by determining the voltage existing across it at the end of the measurement. The circuit serving this purpose is a Wheatstone bridge with a tube in one arm, to whose grid the capacitor is connected, and a microammeter in the diagonal which indicates directly the amount of unbalance produced by the capacitor voltage."
"This report summarizes available data and engineering opinions on the subject of power-system overvoltages, particularly as to their correlation with system-grounding impedance. It is hoped that the report will be useful in connection with overvoltage problems for all types of power-system apparatus."
"Many electromechanical systems that are being studied in connection with the war effort have so many degrees of freedom that it is totally impractical to analyze their performance by direct calculation. It is, therefore, increasingly important to develop equivalent circuits for these multiple oscillating systems, that can be put on the a-c calculating board and so solved by direct reading of instruments."
"As power-transmission distances have increased, new problems, both technical and economic have been encountered, analyzed, and taken into consideration in the design and operation of power systems. As transmission distances continue to increase it is logical to expect that in addition to the already exposed problems, new ones may arise which previously have not required consideration. It is the purpose of this paper to present an analysis of a technical problem which falls in the latter category."
"THE transmission of electric power over long distances has been the subject of considerable study,1 and it has been concluded that an effective way of increasing the permissible straightaway transmission distance is by means of series-capacitor compensation of part of the transmission-line inductive reactance. The introduction of longer lines together with capacitor compensation brings up several technical problems which must be considered if proper operation is to be assured. Studies of transient stability and switching times following faults and of abnormal overvoltages which may result from interaction of line capacitance and transformer exciting impedance at no load are presented in references 2 and 3 respectively. This paper presents the results of a study of hunting and self-excitation during normal operation as affected by line and machine characteristics."
"In contrast to power arcs in air, for which the dielectric-recovery voltage decreases with increasing arc current, arcs in air produced by surge currents of several hundred microseconds' duration possess dielectric-recovery characteristics that vary only slightly with current magnitude and wave shape. Even when the discharge current is prolonged at low magnitude for as long as a thousand microseconds, the rate of dielectric recovery is little affected. For this condition at times when current as high as one ampere is flowing, the transient voltage required to convert to a high current arc is quite high. The mechanism for such a discharge is different than for the breakdown of virgin air, and the initial arc drop is sufficiently high to record its transient character. It is about ten times the steady-state value at the time the crest current is reached and drops about 50 per cent in the first 20 microseconds."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An AIEE past president, now brigadier general in the United States Army, tells how certain branches of the Army, sacrificing critical materials needed for their own supplies, are effecting conservation and easing production problems through the use of substitutes. Pointing out that in the fields of conservation and substitution engineers can be of greatest value in expediting the war, he urges engineering societies to co-operate in this work."
"English industries, utilities, and civilians have prepared for protection against blitz attacks, have carried on during them, and have set about to repair damages after them with courage and determination. Pointing out their splendid spirit and accomplishment under war conditions, the author of this article suggests that we in the United States might well draft our pattern for wartime living and working along lines similar to theirs."
"The development of pasteurization is traced in this article from the experiments with wine by Louis Pasteur to the modern methods of milk pasteurizing — the holder and the high-temperature short-time methods. In the latter method electricity or hot water is used. Control, vital to the success of the process because of the necessity of holding the temperature within very close limits, is discussed in some detail as it operates in the present-day electric unit."
"As a wartime expedient, certain restrictions have been placed on airport lighting. How the lighting of airports in compliance with these restrictions may be accomplished is explained here. Distinction is made between normal wartime operation of lights and black-out operation."
"A common error is often made in the use of the distribution factor of an electric machine when a winding consists of a fractional number of coils in series. This article discusses a quick and easy way of finding the correct value of this factor and a simple method for determining the best distribution of such a winding."
"A technical meeting of the AIEE North Eastern District will be held on April 8 and 9, 1943, at Pittsfield, Mass., with headquarters at the Wendell Hotel. Subjects of importance to electrical engineers in fulfilling their professional duties in war time will be stressed at the meeting."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Electrical and mechanical engineering maintenance for the British Army has been brought under single control by the formation of the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers. The unit is described in the ensuing news item which was prepared for publication in Electrical Engineering by Owen Pawsey, former editor of Electrical Trading and former member of the editorial staff of Broadcaster, both British periodicals."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without letter, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"THE mechanical and electrical advantages stemming from the use of linear conductors of structural shape∗ are so marked that, at present, most busses for heavy current duty are constructed of such conductors. Thus, standard designs of single and polyphase busses utilize strap conductors of full rectangular cross section, tubular conductors of hollow rectangular cross section, or ventilated conductors of open hollow rectangular cross section — these last built up of two slightly separated channels or four slightly separated angles placed flange to flange, or of multiples of four thin strap conductors. Again, limited construction of a somewhat more specialized type of bus has resulted from Arnold's1 discovery that minimum eddy-current losses are attained in a single-phase circuit if, of the conductors commercially available, the bus is constructed of two properly chosen channels placed back to back. Finally, the use, in shielded busses, of conductors of T and I cross section is not unknown."
"IN long-distance large-block power transmission, where is reactance compensation applicable? The complete answer to this question involves the weighing of compensated line performance against its costs, tempered with engineering judgment. This paper presents the results of an analysis made to determine basic performance data of compensated lines under steady-state and transient conditions. The data presented therefore allow the question to be partly answered and, it is believed, to a sufficient degree to permit certain general conclusions to be drawn. The system designer is thus provided with the fundamentally necessary data permitting him to proceed with an economic analysis for his particular case, where the cost factors are available. It is felt that in this field lies the value of these data. The costs of the various factors for a particular case can be weighed with the performance obtained by the same factors. The best design must necessarily be one where per cent line compensation, number of parallel circuits, generator short-circuit ratio, and number of intermediate switching stations are all used to their optimum degree for a given reliability of service. The number of factors which may be varied obviously depends upon whether compensation is to be used for increasing the power limits of a system already in operation or to be used as a factor in the design of a projected system."
"It has been indicated that there is a growing interest in the possibilities of multiwinding transformers with five windings. The lack of a suitable equivalent circuit for this type of transformer has retarded some of these engineering analyses. This paper presents a practical equivalent circuit, together with a development of the necessary formulas. Numerous mathematical manipulations have been omitted in the interest of brevity. Several of these manipulations are the key to the simplicity of the final working formulas. Examples show how the various equivalent-circuit parameters are evaluated. Factors affecting the voltage regulation of a five-winding transformer are brought out with the aid of an example in which two sources of supply are present. An objective of the analysis has been to keep the equivalent circuit suitable for the calculating board. Several precautions in this connection are discussed."
"THE design of efficient conductor systems for large alternating currents has always been a problem, and the problem is especially difficult with large low-voltage polyphase currents, such as are found in feeder distribution systems for industrial plants. Special conductor shapes and arrangements have been proposed in the past and have proved satisfactory for some applications, but all have had their limitations. A new method of arranging bus bars, named paired phasing, has now been developed and has been found to be superior to conventional arrangements for transmitting polyphase currents in the range of 1,000 amperes and above, at 600 volts and less."
"An electromechanical calculator has been designed for the rapid solution of directional-antenna patterns. After the desired antenna parameters have been set up, the machine automatically draws the field-intensity curve to any desired scale on a sheet of polar co-ordinate paper and indicates the rms value for drawing a circle of the equivalent nondirectional pattern."
"Loading of closed delta banks of substation transformers to a point approaching safe thermal limit results in severe overloading of two transformers as well as decided unbalance in voltage and current when operated in open delta as a result of the failure of one transformer. By the use of mobile capacitor units with capacitors arranged in two unequal groups, the load on two transformers in open delta is reduced, regulation improved, voltage and current are balanced within operating limits, and with the aid of fans, the top oil temperatures — and consequently, the copper temperatures — are kept within safe limits. This permits proper loading of transformers in closed delta, a relatively short interruption to service or reduction in load upon failure of one transformer in a bank, and a reduction in number of transformers required for emergency use."
"Safe overloads for transformers can be determined by a modification of the American Standards Association rule for overloading to permit the use of an equivalent ambient temperature, which will result in the same loss of life as for continous operation at 30 degrees centigrade ambient and full load."
"STEEL has been comparatively cheap in the United States and, until recently, available in quantity. Consequently the use of steel structures for supporting the higher-voltage transmission lines has been favored by transmission engineers. However, since conservation of critical materials has become necessary, it is essential that designs incorporating wood construction be considered for such applications. A contribution to efforts in this direction is provided by a review of the design used for single-circuit wood-pole 230-kv transmission lines recently constructed to supply power to an important industrial area."
"High-voltage transmission lines, when de-energized by conventional oil circuit breakers, are often subjected to high-voltage surges which present a real hazard to terminal equipment. The mechanism of surge generation is initiated by circuit-breaker restriking phenomena which are encouraged by the interruption of the large leading currents required to charge moderate and high-voltage lines. By interposing suitable resistors across the interrupting elements during the opening stroke of the breaker, the switching overvoltages may be either eliminated by preventing restriking or so reduced in magnitude in the event of restriking that the system is relieved of their hazard. The development of this achievement is presented chronologically:"
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In the accompanying two articles details of the recently formulated Army Specialized Training Program and the Navy College Training Program, which have as their object the education of officers, engineers, and other technical specialists for war service, are discussed by two of the leaders engaged actively in planning and setting up these programs. A joint statement of the Secretary of War and the Secretary of Navy announcing the inception of the training programs appeared in an earlier issue of Electrical Engineering.1"
"THERE are three main aspects of this great war problem: The Army, the Navy, and the war industry of this country. No one of those aspects can be forgotten if this tripartite organization is to function efficiently, smoothly, and to the end that we train a team to win this war. Colonel Buekema and I, however, are considering primarily the problem of the Army and Navy, but not for a moment do we, as responsible officers of the armed services, forget the other member of the team. The responsibility for training for war industry is laid upon another agency of the Government, the War Manpower Commission; but it is our responsibility to insure that our programs and whatever program the War Manpower Commission may develop integrate together, and that neither the Army nor the Navy usurp nor contract for nor absorb so much of the training facilities of the country as to prevent the third member of the team from having its proper opportunity to do its job. I should like to state that positively and affirmatively as the policy attitude of both the War and Navy Departments."
"The relationship between scientists, engineers, and the armed services in the development, production, and use of weapons is of great importance in meeting the exigencies of war, says the director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, an agency charged with co-ordinating the efforts of technical men to evolve instruments of war in collaboration with the Army and Navy. The interrelated work of this and other agencies, which are concerned with development rather than procurement, is contributing toward filling the vast need of the armed services for the adaptation of war implements to changing conditions."
"Ultrashort electromagnetic waves are of vital importance at the present time. In keeping with the policy of the Institute to concentrate its efforts on matters closely related to the war effort, the basic science group of the AIEE New York Section is now presenting a series of lectures on this topic. The editor of “Electrical Engineering,” believing that this material should be made available to the entire AIEE membership, has asked the lecturers to prepare articles to be published in this journal. This first article lays the groundwork in fundamental theory for the entire series. Succeeding articles, all being prepared by recognized authorities, will cover: (II) transmission-line theory at ultrahigh frequencies; (III) generation; (IV) guided propagation; (V) radiation; (VI) reception. If sufficient interest is shown, a consolidated reprint will be made available after the full series has appeared. PAUL C. CROMWELL, Chairman, Symposium Committee (College of Engineering, New York University, New York, N. Y.)"
"Arrangements for the AIEE North Eastern District technical meeting which will be held in Pittsfield, Mass., April 8–9, 1943, include five conference sessions, a general session, and three technical sessions. Meeting headquarters will be at the Wendell Hotel. Some sessions will be held in the hotel and the others in the Berkshire Museum auditorium across the street."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Maximum aid in the war effort was the principal objective of the AIEE national technical meeting held in New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943. This is in accord with the wartime policies adopted by the Institute's board of directors last August. As stipulated by those policies, all programmed social activities and inspection trips were omitted, leaving the entire week to be devoted to technical sessions and conferences."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without letter, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"In testing transformers, the standard method of determining winding temperature consists of measuring winding resistance at short intervals of time following shutdown, then plotting the readings and projecting them back to the instant of shutdown. The resistances are usually measured by the voltmeter-ammeter or by a bridge. In either method a d-c power source is applied to the circuit, directly or through a resistor."
"The letter of Mr. V. J. Cissna in the November 1942 issue of Electrical Engineering, page 587, is of interest to the writer, who has also noted the difficulty commented upon and would like to make some suggestions. Mr. Cissna has really put three questions which will be dealt with separately. The first concerns the differing signs in the two pairs of general equations; the second concerns the interchanging of the A and D constants; and the third concerns the physical significance of these A and D constants."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"THE electric locomotive of World War I days has broadened its usefulness to a position of recognized importance among the nation's available motive power now so necessary to the successful conduct of the present world's struggle."
"IT is common practice to operate synchronous motors with full-rated field current supplied from a constant-voltage exciter. In a number of cases involving variable loads, automatic control equipment has been used to vary the excitation with the load. This control causes the field current to be reduced below the rated value during light-load periods when it is not needed and increases the excitation when the load is applied, in order to prevent the motor from pulling out of step. By this means both operating efficiency and system voltage regulation have been improved."
"High-voltage oil circuit breakers for high-speed operation generally use some form of multibreak contact arrangement. These breakers perform satisfactorily but lack the simplicity of the conventional slower-speed two-break construction. The development of an unusually effective multiorifice oil-flow interrupting unit now makes it possible to reduce the required number of breaks to the point where even three-cycle 230-kv breakers appear practical with only two interrupting units per pole."
"Although much has been written in recent years regarding allowable overloading of transformers, the practical matter of matching existing load curves with such allowable limits has continued to present some difficulties. The interim report of the AIEE transformer subcommittee gives one approach to the problem, taking into account the ambient temperature and the duration of the overload. However, in order to take full advantage of the transformer's inherent load-carrying ability, it is necessary to consider additional factors such as the individual transformer characteristics and the specific shape of the overload curve."
"WHAT portion of the total system investment can one equitably allocate to the system kilovar requirements? Or, looking at it in a little different way, what portion of the system kilowatt capacity is used by kilovars ? The answer to these questions obviously depends upon the method of supplying the kilovars. It is indicated in this analysis that supplying the kilovar requirements of a system in general may be divorced from supplying the kilowatt requirements and that the two factors may be dealt with as independent commodities. This approach shows that maximum usage of system capacity is made in producing kilowatts."
"LACK of factual information relative to the permissible pulling loads to which solid-type impregnated-paper lead-sheath power cable might be subjected by means of woven-wire pulling grips without damage to the sheath prompted the Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association to consider the subject and resulted in the laboratory tests described in this paper."
"The paper presents a method of determining approximately the maximum continuous current-carrying capacity of conductors in overhead lines, as fixed by certain operating limits of temperature and time, beyond which it is expected that the physical characteristics of copper conductors might be materially impaired. The paper deals illustratively with conditions in the Philadelphia area, but the method is equally adaptable to any situation."
"THIS paper describes a new method of calculating transmission losses within power systems. Reasonable accuracy is obtained with longhand calculation, although the same general scheme with the load-flow determinations carried out on a d-c calculating board would provide greater accuracy with less work. The use of an a-c calculating board with separate tabulations of kilowatt and kilovar flows would be even more advantageous. The method is based on the principle of superimposing the load distribution from each source, determining the current in each line as a sum of the individual load flows (with each in its proper direction), squaring this expression for current, and setting up an equation for losses in terms of megawatt generation at the various plants and of megawatt flows (in or out) at each interchange point. An outward flow of power at an interchange point is considered negative generation."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"At this time when all available man power is needed for war production, it is important that the causes of industrial accidents be investigated and eliminated. Inadequate lighting is one of these causes, although its relation to accident rate has not always been clearly perceived. Statistics indicate that industrial accident rate decreases with an increase in illumination levels, but that the decrease lessens as lighting levels are raised."
"PRESENTATION of three of the highest engineering honors — the Edison, John Fritz, and Hoover Medals — to three engineers in vastly different fields of the profession, at a special session of the AIEE national technical meeting on January 27, 1943, was unique in the history of the Institute. Research has revealed that at no time previous to this have three such signal honors been conferred at one AIEE ceremony. The 1942 Edison Medal, highest award of the AIEE, was presented to Edwin Howard Armstrong, professor of electrical engineering, Columbia University, New York, N. Y. Willis R. Whitney (A '01), vice-president in charge of research, General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., was awarded the 1943 John Fritz Medal, given for notable scientific or industrial achievement. The award of the 1942 Hoover Medal, honoring an engineer for distinguished public service, was made to Gerard Swope (F '22), president of the General Electric Company, New York, N. Y. Text of presentation addresses and responses of medalists follow (EE, Mar. '43, pp. 116–17)."
"IF we review the advances in electrical technology in the past 25 years, one development stands out from all others, electronics, and specifically the application of the three-electrode vacuum tube. It is appropriate to recall here that the original electronic tube was the two-electrode tube of Edison, in whose honor the Edison medal was established. Others subsequently applied this “Edison effect” in radio detection and introduced the control electrode, but the action was viewed as that of a trigger, as in the modern thyratron, which is of limited application. The real foundation for the unlimited development which we have witnessed was laid by the Edison Medal recipient, Doctor Edwin Howard Armstrong, in an article published in the Electrical World in December 1914. Here the common engineering tool, the characteristic curve, was employed for the first time to show how the tube amplifies; and the theory was substantiated by oscillograms which Armstrong had taken. The previously mysterious action of the tube as a rectifying detector with a grid capacitor was elucidated in the same way."
"IT is not possible for me to find the words to tell you what this honor means to me. To have belonged to the generation which learned the meaning of volts and amperes when Edison was at the height of his career, to be able to follow in the footsteps of my old instructor — Michael Pupin — who stood here 22 years ago, and to have my own work appraised, during these difficult days, as worthy of the Edison Medal, gives it an inspiring meaning that can never be described."
"IF you should pick up a turtle five miles or so from Schenectady, N. Y., and find markings on his shell — a date and the letter W — you would note the time and place of your discovery and notify Doctor Whitney; you and the turtle then would be participating in scientific research. Down on the island of Nassau there are conch shells that show markings and pictures through their opalescent linings. They have been in Doctor Whitney's hands and he has made these markings to study the mechanism of shell growth."
"WHEN I consider the work of the former recipients of the John Fritz Medal, I see clearly that I am not one of those sturdy individualistic pioneers of engineering but rather, a well-protected product of organization, a representative of a group of supported scientific workers. This greatly increases the satisfaction and honor which I feel in this event."
"GERARD Swope is presented for the Hoover Medal on the ground of his “constructive public service in the field of social, civic, and humanitarian effort.” One of his humanitarian efforts has been to help me on many occasions in the consideration of measures for improving the educational work of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, of which he is an executive committee member."
"THE citation given me is much more generous than my efforts warrant — it is really the reflection of the ideal of the work of engineers for the public good. It is recognized that engineers are dealing not only with material and natural forces but with and for human beings."
"This article is the second in a series of six on ultrashort electromagnetic waves, all presented originally before the basic science group of the AIEE New York Section as a symposium of six lectures surveying ultrahigh-frequency theory. The first article, “Electromagnetic Theory,” by Doctor Ernst Weber, appeared in the March issue. This second article presents simplifications and approximations of the usual engineering solutions for the transmission line that are valid only for very high frequencies. The resulting expressions are of great practical advantage in designing transmission-line circuit elements."
"As announced in previous issues, a technical meeting of the AIEE South West District will be held at Kansas City, Mo., April 28–30, 1943. At the same time the annual engineering meeting of the Missouri Valley Electric Association also will be held in that city. Because of the war it was deemed desirable to hold these meetings concurrently in order to conserve time and transportation for those interested in attending both. Headquarters for both meetings will be in the Hotel Continental."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The AIEE Los Angeles Section is engaged in the formation of an aircraft group to provide a medium for the interchange of ideas and the discussion of problems pertaining to electricity in aircraft. This is the first group in this field to be established by an Institute Section. Interest in the aircraft phase of electrical engineering as a result of the widespread aircraft industry in the area of the Los Angeles Section has given impetus to the establishment of the new group, first specialized technical division to be set up by this Section. It is reported that the San Diego Section is forming a similar group."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE North Eastern district technical meeting, Pittsfield, Mass., April 8–9, and the South Western district technical meeting, Kansas City, Mo., April 28–30, 1943, and are expected to be ready for distribution in advance pamphlet form within the current month. The initials NE at the end of an abstract indicate that the paper will be presented at the North Eastern district meeting, SW that the paper will be presented at the South West district meeting. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the meeting registration desk."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The subcommittee on conservation of materials, of the AIEE committee on cooperation with war agencies has assembled from information coming to its attention, examples of things that have been and are being done by the electrical industry to conserve critical materials. The subcommittee has obtained this information from many sources and, of course, has had no opportunity to investigate the various measures. Such of the items as have appeared in publications available to the industry as a whole are so credited. Others have been developed at recent meetings at which conservation was the principal theme. Still others have been brought to the attention of the subcommittee informally by engineers well-known in the electrical industry."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without letter, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently-received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"POWER consumers often are supplied from high-voltage distribution or sub-transmission circuits through transformer banks. When such consumers are to be charged on the basis of high-voltage or primary supply, some way of including the transformer losses is desirable without resorting to the difficulties and expense of direct primary-circuit metering."
"High-speed current-balance relaying has been subject to occasional false tripping that has not been explained satisfactorily. Field and factory tests now show that this is probably due to differences in residual fluxes in the current-transformer cores. The limiting value of these fluxes can be calculated approximately, and they can be measured with portable instruments connected to the secondary winding. They may cause a deficiency in secondary current, especially during the first half-cycle of fault current, which will cause current-balance or differential-overcurrent relays to operate falsely. This false operation can be avoided by the addition of a short inherent or external time delay with relays having a high dropout, or by the use of special current transformers."
"IN the last few years considerable work has been done, in this country by the Joint Co-ordination Committee on Radio Reception of Edison Electric Institute, National Electrical Manufacturers' Association, and Radio Manufacturers' Association, and in Canada by the Department of Transport, to develop radio-noise measuring circuits and instruments.1,2 The methods2 of measuring radio noise and the instruments have reached the point in their development where the data obtained with these standard instruments can be correlated and the radio-influence characteristics of electric apparatus and power systems can be determined."
"UNDER present wartime conditions the need for conserving critical materials has been impressed upon the electrical industry with emphasis. It is for this reason that the lightning arrester subcommittee of the protective devices committee undertook a review of lightning protective devices and practices and their application to uncover and present any worth-while savings which it seems possible, practical, and reasonable to obtain. Within the short time since this project became active, it has not been possible to obtain committee agreement on all the various considerations involved. Therefore, rather than withhold from the industry the value of constructive study and suggestions already available, this paper is being presented without the sponsorship or any commitment by the lightning arrester subcommittee. It is hoped that its presentation and the discussions it will initiate will be helpful to the committee in continuing its work on this project to a conclusion. It is the purpose of the paper to give some results of a study on this problem up to the time the paper was prepared."
"An air interrupter switch may be defined as a nonautomatic air switch which combines the functions of a disconnecting switch with the ability to interrupt current up to a predetermined magnitude. It primarily differs in function from a circuit breaker in that it cannot interrupt overload or short-circuit currents. General specifications for interrupter switches are proposed."
"This paper analyzes the operating characteristics of multiphase power rectifiers from the standpoint of harmonics, load balance, and their interrelation, and their effects on the apparatus and circuits to which they may be connected. These factors are considered in connection with selection of the number of rectifier phases, which varies from six (four for very small sizes) to combinations of six-phase units to form a much larger number, such as 36, 72, or even 108 phases. More specifically, the problems of harmonics, load balance, and number of phases are considered from the standpoint of the effects on 1. Apparatus, particularly turbine generators and capacitors. 2. The wave-shape distortion on circuits that may be important in inductive co-ordination. 3. The possibility of resonance being encountered in the supply system to amplify one or more of the rectifier harmonics."
"The compressed-air circuit breaker for indoor power-house service is becoming very popular. However, its use for high-voltage outdoor service is still in the field-trial stage. Several high-voltage porcelain-clad circuit breakers of American design are now in service, and their performance is being watched carefully. A 138-kv 1,500,000-kva three-pole breaker has been installed at the Kittanning substation of the West Penn Power Company. Before installation its interrupting ability was checked to 5,900 amperes with full 132 kv on a single-pole unit and on a circuit with a transient recovery rate of 3,100 volts per microsecond. The mechanical operation was tested with the breaker in a heavily iced condition at −14 degrees Fahrenheit. The air-supply system was tested at −4 degrees Fahrenheit, and both were found to operate satisfactorily."
"THE great interest shown recently by electrical engineers in rural electrification engineering and electroagricultural engineering is demonstrated by the fact that in the October 1942 issue of Electrical Engineering there appeared a paper which was entitled “New Engineering and a New Industry,” presented in December 1941 before the American Society of Agricultural Engineers. The statement made therein that “before 1935 there was no rural electrification engineering,” which was misinterpreted by some readers, was not made to discredit the work of anyone in electrifying farms, but referred to the fact that there was no specific branch of engineering that could be called “rural electrification engineering.” In fact, we all consider rural electrification engineering as a part of distribution engineering in general, and the latter is likewise a very young branch of engineering. As a matter of fact, very few spoke of “rural electrification.” In most of the literature prior to 1935 you will find only the term, “rural line extension.” The following statement is from the National Resources Committee report in “Technological Trends and National Policy,” 1937, page 284:"
"ELECTRIC-ARC furnaces are contributing materially to the war effort, and a great number of them, small, medium, and large, have been installed recently, and more are being installed all over the country. These furnaces inherently produce a violently fluctuating load with widely different values in the several phases during the early part of the heat, referred to in the trade as “the meltdown period,” and the electric lines and systems to handle such loads must be carefully designed and installed so as to prevent such swinging loads from affecting adversely the system and other critical loads, particularly the lighting, and at the same time to provide sufficient capacity and voltage for satisfactory furnace operation. Also, such lines must be so arranged and connected into the system that the minimum of copper will be utilized — most important now."
"THE paper describes a new method for the testing of insulation of windings, the advantages of which are adequate stressing of turn and conductor insulation and certain detection of defects. The new tester consists of a repeating-type surge generator, cathode-ray oscillograph, and synchronously driven switching equipment. The surge generator provides a succession of voltage waves of controlled shape adjusted to give the necessary turn and conductor insulation stresses. The cathode-ray oscillograph is timed to give a stationary image of the repeating surge on the screen. By virtue of the special method of surge application and oscillograph connection, the waves on the screen indicate turn or conductor-insulation defects quickly and certainly."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The trend of recent developments in the field of plastics as electrical insulating materials and the electrical properties and applications of certain new plastics are discussed by a research physicist."
"This article compares the amount of arithmetical computation required to determine transient currents by the transform method with that required to determine the same currents by the classical method. The amount of arithmetical computation is measured by the number of times it is necessary to multiply or add two numbers. Comparison is made only for the case in which the circuits have few branches with lumped constants of resistance, inductance, and capacitance, and any advantage or disadvantage either method may have in other cases is not considered. No account is taken of the added effort necessary to acquire a working knowledge of the transform method nor of the time required to derive the transform expressions for the currents from the differential equations."
"Britain's war production and the development of fluorescent lighting in that country have had profound effects on each other. How this modern lighting is aiding Britain's war program and how black-out requirements and war-industry regulations have speeded up the development of fluorescent lighting are explained here by the President of the British Illuminating Engineering Society."
"The general theory behind electromagnetic waves is as old as Maxwell's field equations. The production of undamped ultrashort waves of any appreciable power, however, was delayed until the discovery and development of the magnetron as a high-frequency oscillator and the introduction of the type of velocitymodulation generator known as the klystron. The author of the accompanying article has not only designed and developed some of these new types of ultrashort-electromagnetic-wave generators but has contributed by his many interesting talks and technical papers to the advancement and general knowledge in this field. This is the third article of a series originally presented as lectures before the basic science group of the AIEE New York Section. The two preceding articles appeared in the March and April issues of “Electrical Engineering”"
"A successful wartime technical meeting of the North Eastern District was held in Pittsfield, Mass., April 8 and 9, 1943, with headquarters in the Wendell Hotel. Eight technical sessions and conferences and a general session were held during the two days of the meeting, which was preceded by a tri-Sectional technical-paper competition for younger engineers on the evening of April 7. The presentations at each of the sessions and conferences exemplified the part taken by electrical engineers in aiding the war effort. The total registered attendance was 318, as analyzed in the accompanying table."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The Electronic Research Supply Agency, whose purpose is to supply research men with the electronic components vital to their work, has been established recently by the Defense Supplies Corporation at the request of the Armed Services."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be horrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the hook in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"The current flowing to ground from an automobile, whose rear wheels were turning on a dynamometer, was measured. The magnitude of the constant current measured, in the order of microamperes, shows that the vehicle is electrically charged by conduction through the tires. The experimental results are consistent with the conception of a simple equivalent circuit. These results were checked by road tests. Calculation shows that the tires are usually conducting sufficiently to discharge a car in a short time after it has stopped moving."
"BECAUSE of the increasing use of pilot-wire relays, particularly for longer lines, the relay subcommittee initiated an investigation of the operating experience with the pilot channel itself. From this investigation it was hoped to determine the requirements for a reliable pilot channel. Unfortunately, the information obtained to date is not conclusive, and under war conditions the completion of this investigation appears to be delayed unavoidably. On the other hand, plant expansion necessary to the war effort frequently has called for quick decisions on relay schemes, and pilot wires have been used in many cases. Because the pilot-wire channel is the least known item in the pilot-wire relay scheme, the committee has decided to publish the information now available to indicate the trend, so that prospective users of pilot-wire relaying may have the benefit of this preliminary work. Investigation will be continued as actively as conditions permit and another report issued as soon as sufficient data are available."
"The paper discusses the various methods that have been used in cooling power transformers by forced circulation of the cooling medium, and points out the benefits"
"THE Institute at present is fostering a program encouraging discussion of means of obtaining greater loading out of existing equipment. As part of this program the general systems subcommittee of the power transmission and distribution committee has undertaken the task of analyzing what can be done with generators of reactive power in reducing the kilovolt-ampere demand upon system elements, thereby releasing more of the system capacity for useful kilowatt loading."
"The cathode-ray oscillograph because of its inherent characteristics is ideally suited and extensively used for the measurement of transient voltages associated with switching operations. The type of oscillograph ordinarily used covers a wide range of measurement conditions and is necessarily large and expensive. For this reason very few such units are available, and new problems, arising from the necessity of providing reliable service with loads increasing because of the war effort, have required every available measurement facility."
"The paper presents the position of the three types of motive power in railroad service and offers a brief historical background to show how each one arrived at its present status. A table lists advantages and disadvantages inherent in each type and includes supplementary information to explain the listings in the table. The subject is presented from the viewpoint of the user, and a method of determining more closely the place for each type of locomotive is suggested. An appendix lists all of the considerations which must be included in a complete cost study."
"FOR its part in the development of the power-recovery system of testing aircraft engines the electrical industry may properly take pride. It has aided the war effort by helping to give to the aircraft-engine industry a testing technique that contains advantages not previously available. In this system of testing worth-while energy can be saved — more than half that required to operate an aircraft-engine manufacturing plant — and power demand can be reduced to the extent that power-demand costs and the capacities of power-supplying apparatus are materially reduced, engines can be tested with the ease and the quietness typical of electric machinery, testing can be carried on in buildings of simplified design, accurate electric load readings can be obtained to check and substantiate readings taken by conventional engine-testing methods, and, as reported by an aircraft engine builder, testing may be accomplished more quickly than with other systems. All of this can be done too on a basis that is economically sound."
"AT present a great amount of engineering talent is being utilized in the electrical planning and designing of various types of military-training bases, federal-housing projects, and other wartime projects. The Bonneville Power Administration has been requested to supply electric power to many types of war projects and of course was confronted with the problem of estimating the power requirements of each."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The engineer's relationship to the war effort and his responsibilities in that effort both as a citizen and as a professional man are subjects of interest to all engineers at the present time."
"When Doctor S. A. Schelkunoff presented the material contained in this article as a lecture before the basic science group of the New York Section, he remarked that it was “nonmathematical.” Certainly the electrical engineer will welcome any concept which allows an easier approach to the solution of certain problems involved in wave guides than the more complete equivalent field-theory method. In this fourth article in a series of six on ultrashort electromagnetic waves, Doctor Schelkunoff combines transmission-line theory with optical analogy and derives useful relations for both wave guides and cavity resonators. The three preceding articles appeared in the March, April, and May issues of “Electrical Engineering.”"
"This third article to appear in “Electrical Engineering” on the problem of producing engineers in wartime nominates the Engineering, Science, and Management War Training Program as a workable plan for securing leaders for the production line. Articles describing the Army Specialized Training Program and the Navy College Training Program which have already been put into operation appeared in the March issue."
"Special handling problems have arisen in the manufacture of sponge-rubber forms because of the necessity of creating bubbles inside the rubber and maintaining them in even distribution. To cope with the problem of handling the material carefully and at the same time rapidly enough to employ production-line technique, electric equipment involving a combination of squirrel-cage motors with dynamic braking and d-c adjustable-voltage drive has been developed."
"An enlarged technical program of 26 sessions and conferences, as compared with a maximum of 20 sessions and conferences for the previous year, will be held in Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25. The meeting headquarters will be in the Hotel Cleveland. In accordance with AIEE wartime policies as adopted by the board of directors all programmed social activities have been omitted. However, there will be opportunity for informal get togethers, and members desiring to participate should inquire at the registration desk."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and are expected to be ready for distribution in advance pamphlet form within the current month. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the meeting registration desk. Mail orders will be filled AS PAMPHLETS BECOME AVAILABLE"
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Accurate rating of transformers is one of the most important elements in the problem of providing continuous service to the customers of the utility industry. Rather than attempt to follow a general rule for the loading of transformers it is believed that the urgency of wartime needs amply justifies the effort required to place individual ratings on each transformer bank of the utility under consideration. Experience has shown that such ratings vary widely. The transformers cover a wide range of sizes, designs, manufacturers, and periods of manufacture; with weights per kilovolt-ampere ranging from 7 to 20 pounds, excitation voltages ranging from 95 to 110 per cent, their daily load factors from 25 to 100 per cent, and their seasonal loading from 0 to 100 per cent. The consequent saving of “critical” material is self-evident when each case is considered individually."
"UP to a certain length of transmission line, conventional distance relays will readily distinguish internal faults, for which the line should be opened, and external faults, load conditions, and power swings, for which the line should not be opened. This distinction is based on the magnitude of the impedance or reactance of the line as it appears to the relay. This impedance will be referred to hereafter as the input impedance and is determined by the current and voltage existing at the relay location."
"For many years shellac or synthetic-resin-coated paper has been used in winding condenser bushings. Two years ago work on the development of oil-impregnated-paper condenser bushings was undertaken. When a shortage of shellac was imminent because of the war, effort to complete the development was greatly increased, resulting in its being completed well ahead of the date originally set. Manufacturing processes and impregnating treatments were developed and bushings built and tested. The processes and treatments are described, and the data obtained from tests on representative bushings are given."
"Analysis of fundamental bases of relaying made as part of the engineering for the 270-mile 154-kv interconnection between systems of Nebraska Power Company and Kansas Gas and Electric Company reveals that, of current, phase angle, impedance, and impedance angle, none alone offers satisfactory discrimination among open-circuit, short-circuit, and load conditions. Combination of input-impedance magnitude Z and impedance angle ψ = tan−1 X/R is studied by means of “impedance circle diagrams” of the interconnecting circuit. On these diagrams is charted the dynamic behavior of the interconnected systems during faults and surges of synchronizing power. The desirable areas of trip and no trip are mapped, and general specifications for the performance of relay systems are presented in terms of impedance magnitude and angle, Z ∠ ψ. Thereby full advantage can be taken of all possible synchronizing power inherently available over the interconnection and at the same time faults and approach of out-of-step condition can be recognized properly."
"EXPERIENCE has shown that electric-power apparatus and circuits may, under certain circumstances, influence radio reception. Groups representing electric-apparatus manufacturers, power companies, radio-apparatus manufacturers and service have been co-operating for several years on the control of this influence. Reports by these groups have summarized progress as this work proceeded. Standard measurement equipments and methods have been established. Papers have been presented also covering various aspects of the general problem. This paper gives the results of practical experience with standard equipments and methods for the measurement of radio influence factors. The various elements in the chain between measured characteristics of the power apparatus and the noise measured in the radio set are analyzed. Quantitative values for the various factors involved in average cases are given."
"WHEN a three-phase transformer bank is operated in open delta, an unbalanced secondary voltage results, and the transformers themselves may be overloaded. The unbalanced voltage will cause a circulating current to flow which may cause overheating of the equipment in the secondary circuit to an extent depending upon the amount of the voltage unbalance and the load being carried. Wolf and Mattison1 have described a method of overcoming the voltage unbalance, and this paper is written to mention briefly the effect of unbalanced voltages on the operation of induction motors and to present an analysis of the circuit, together with some correlated material."
"Mathematical expressions for a-c impedance and current distribution are derived for bimetallic conductors with circular symmetry. The results are illustrated by application to a copper-covered steel conductor in the frequency range up to 160 kilocycles. Measurements of the a-c resistance in the same frequency range provide a check on the theoretical results. The studies made on the copper-covered steel conductor indicate that its resistance is substantially that of its tubular copper portion alone and, for all but the lowest frequencies, may be taken from the simpler formulas and curves already available for tubes."
"THE obvious advantages of air circuit breakers have led to their widespread application, particularly in the 2,500 and 5,000-volt class for 100,000 and 150,000-kva interrupting rating. This has in turn brought a demand for lower kilovolt-ampere ratings in these voltage classes. In the past the oil circuit breaker has been the only device economically applicable in this particular field. However, progress in design and manufacturing facilities has made it possible to build a 50,000-kva unit lower in cost than would have been considered feasible two years ago and one which is expected to meet the operating requirements in this field."
"This paper outlines some of the factors which should be considered in the design of d-c magnets. The usual types of steel used are briefly discussed, including their influence on “sticking” or residual forces. Calculated curves are presented which show the influence of pole-face area on the force developed by the magnet. Flux measurements on a number of magnets show that theoretical calculations are often in great error because of factors such as leakage and saturation which are usually neglected. Data show that the flux in a d-c magnet with a small air gap may vary by as much as 300 per cent between one part of the circuit and another."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"ELECTRICAL insulating oils find a wide application in the electrical industry in cables, transformers, capacitors, circuit-breakers, and other oil-insulated equipment. The present paper discusses the electrical stability as indicated by low power factor of an oil under limited-oxidation conditions, such as exist in certain service applications in oil-impregnated paper-insulated cables and sealed transformers. This test differs from the conventional “open-beaker” or unlimited-oxidation test. The limited amount of oxygen made available to the oil may be varied, from residual amounts due to contact materials or present in the oil, to the normal solubility of air in oil, and to larger amounts as desired. The limited-oxidation test indicates that, for a given duration of deterioration, oils may give power factors of 10 to 100 times those indicated in the conventional test. This fact is important in service applications for oil-paper cables (since these losses limit the rating of the cable and decrease its efficiency) and for oil-filled equipment (since increased dielectric losses may reduce directly or indirectly the useful life of the equipment). While the power factor of an oil is not of prime importance for many types of oil-filled electric equipment, it is one of the most sensitive known criteria for stability tests. Operating performance of oil-paper cables in service shows, in general, that the power factor of the insulation increases with time, even in certain cases to the extent of impairing the investment seriously. Hitherto, these changes have been unexplainable. It is believed that the limited-oxidation test, which to a certain extent simulates service conditions, will be useful in controlling this important problem."
"HERETOFORE it has not been feasible to build power circuit breakers capable of many repetitive operations at high currents without maintenance and contact renewal. The evident need for breakers capable of scores of high-current interruptions between maintenance periods and, at the same time, easy and economical to maintain has stimulated the development of an improved circuit interrupter of oilless design."
"GROUND installations comprise physically the ground proper and, in addition, a lead which connects the grounded part (protective device, insulator, overhead ground wire, lightning rod, and so forth) to the ground. The lead (grounding wire or metal structure) is essentially an inductance, while the ground acts as a resistance in the manner discussed previously.1 These two elements determine in a large measure the total voltage across the ground installation and therefore its performance under lightning discharges."
"THE present knowledge of the mechanism of natural lightning permits more accurate calculation of its electric and magnetic fields than has hitherto been possible. In a previous paper,1 the electric ground gradients for nearby strokes to earth were treated principally for the determination of the voltages induced on transmission lines by indirect strokes. In this paper the study is extended to the fields produced at greater distances. Knowledge of the character of such fields is important because of their relationship to stroke mechanism and electrical cloud conditions in general. They also are sources of interference to radio and telephony communication and can cause sparking which may be serious in structures constituting a fire or explosion hazard."
"Results and conclusions are presented from 22 staged fault tests made on a 154-kv transmission line and terminal systems to check the characteristics of new long-line relays, discussed in companion papers,1,2 which were designed to differentiate between faults and high power swings. Observed power swings and relay performance are compared with theoretical aspects and predictions. Data on the transientstability limit of the interconnection, together with observations made during the tests, are also presented. Measured values of line constants and short and open-circuit impedances are given, together with results of attenuation tests at carrier frequencies. Manner of initiating the faults, scheduling of power flows, and organizing personnel are briefly discussed."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–8 by R. B. Bodine, C. Concordia, and Gabriel Kron, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, January section, pages 41–4."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–8 by R. B. Bodine, C. Concordia, and Gabriel Kron, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, January section, pages 41–4."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–9 by Gabriel Kron, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, January section, pages 25–32."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–48 by the AIEE general systems subcommittee of the committee on power transmission and distribution, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, May section, pages 222–30."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–16 by Herman B. Wolf and G. G. Mattison, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, February section, pages 83–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–45 by J. E. Clem, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, June section, pages 292–7."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–13 by J. W. Butler, J. E. Paul, and T. W. Schroeder, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, February section, pages 58–65."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–27 by the AIEE relay subcommittee of the committee on protective devices, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, May section, pages 210–14."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–15 by A. J. McConnell, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, January section, pages 11–13."
"Discussion of paper 43–5 by working group on correlation of system-grounding impedance of the AIEE committee on protective devices, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, January section, pages 17–24."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–28 by H. T. Seeley, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April Section, pages 164–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–2 by L. C. Aicher, Jr., presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, February section, pages 66–70."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–3 by A. G. Conrad, S. T. Smith, and P. F. Ordung, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, January section, pages 7–10."
"Discussion of paper 43–47 by L. T. Rader, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, June section, pages 307–10."
"Discussion of paper 43–20 by E. E. George, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, March section, pages 153–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–22 by A. H. Kidder and C. B. Woodward, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, March section, pages 148–52."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–29 by B. M. Jones, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April section, pages 197–202."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–10 by G. D. McCann and J. J. Clark, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, January section, pages 45–52."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–12 by P. L. Bellaschi and R. E. Armington, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 334–45."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–23 by J. C. Balsbaugh and A. G. Assaf, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 311–22."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–26 by R. D. Evans, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April section, pages 182–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–30 by A. P. S. Bellis, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, March section, pages 138–48."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–34 by A. J. Petzinger and B. E. Lenehan, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April section, pages 159–63."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–49 by H. C. Wilcox and A. G. Oehler, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, May section, pages 235–40."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–41 by G. E. Cassidy, W. A. Mosteller, and W. L. Wright, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, May section, pages 240–6."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–31 by W. K. Boice, B. H. Caldwell, and M. N. Halberg, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, March section, pages 113–19."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–17 by Lawrence E. Fisher and Robert L. Frank, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, February section, pages 71–7."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–19 by Lloyd F. Hunt, E. W. Boehne, and H. A. Peterson, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, February section, pages 98–106."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–37 by F. C. Poage, C. A. Streifus, D. M. MacGregor, and E. E. George, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, June section, pages 275–83."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–39 by C. W. Minard, R. B. Gow, W. A. Wolfe, and E. A. Swanson, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, pages 358–67."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–38 by A. R. van C. Warrington, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, June section, pages 261–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–46 by G. D. McCann and D. E. Morgan, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 345–57."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–50 by S. S. Mackeown and Victor Wouk, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, May section, pages 207–10."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–32 by P. L. Taylor and H. W. Martin, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 323–33."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–44 by R. C. Dickinson and B. I. Hayford, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, June section, pages 302–06."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–51 by H. A. P. Langstaff and B. P. Baker, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April section, pages 188–92."
"Discussion of paper 43–52, by E. A. Williams, Jr., and W. G. Harlow, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April section, pages 176–81."
"Discussion of paper 43–53 by L. R. Ludwig and W. M. Leeds, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, March section, pages 119–25."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–54 by H. J. Lingal, H. L. Cole, and T. R. Watts, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, June section, pages 269–75."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–63 by I. W. Gross, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April section, pages 173–5."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–35 by G. W. Dunlap and N. Rohats, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, May section, pages 231–4."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–56 by K. K. Paluev and L. H. Burnham, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, May section, pages 215–21."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–18 by W. C. Sealey, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, February section, pages 87–93."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–36 by R. J. Salsbury and A. F. Phillips, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, June section, pages 255–60."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–24 by L. W. Clark, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, March section, pages 126–32."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–59 by C. M. Foust and N. Rohats, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April section, pages 203–06."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–57 by C. M. Foust and C. W. Frick, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, June section, pages 284–91."
"Discussion of paper 43–58 by C. V. Aggers, W. E. Pakala, and W. A. Stickel, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April section, pages 169–72."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–1 by Walther Richter and William H. Elliot, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, January section, pages 14–16."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–61 by M. M. Samuels, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, April section, pages 193–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–60 by Harold M. Potts, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 25–29, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, May section, pages 246–54."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"At the request of the AIEE standards committee that the technical committees prepare wartime guides to help the electrical industry find ways and means of getting more out of what it has, two subcommittees of the AIEE committee on power generation have made surveys of what has been done by manufacturers and operating companies to increase the output of generating equipment and systems. This article outlines the results of the work of these two subcommittees; it comprises the “Summary” of the complete report.† Like other guides in this series, this report is intended to be educational and in no way mandatory. At the end of the war emergency, these guides will be reconsidered, and either approved, revised for normal use, or rescinded."
"The conservation of critical materials — necessary to the successful prosecution of the war effort — is a problem which engineers particularly can help to solve, since most critical materials are used in operations under the direction of engineers."
"In June 1918 Doctor C. L. Fortescue presented before the Institute the paper, “Method of Symmetrical Co-ordinates Applied to the Solution of Polyphase Networks.” This paper has been recognized generally as having a far-reaching effect in the solution of unbalanced polyphase circuits. Since 25 years have now elapsed, the committee on power transmission and distribution believes that it is of interest and value to review the development and to consider the manner and extent of its effect on electrical engineering."
"Recent advancements and current trends in the development of metals and alloys used in various branches of the electrical industry are of particular interest in view of present-day increased demands on the industry. Advantages and disadvantages of these metals and alloys for the various uses to which they are put are considered in this article."
"In the design of radiators or antennas for ultrashort waves a complete solution by Maxwell's field equations is usually not practicable and, in many cases, not possible. It is therefore necessary to resort to engineering approximations based upon known physical phenomena. In this article the author discusses a method to be employed when the distribution of the current and the charge over the surface of the radiator are known. A subsequent issue will carry a continuation of this article in which a second method for the calculation of the field in space will be developed on the basis of the known field distribution in the immediate vicinity of the radiator as obtained from experimental data. The author is well known in the field of antenna design and is to a large extent responsible for the development of the instrument landing system used by the Civil Aeronautics Authority. This article is the fifth in a series presented originally as lectures before the basic science group of the AIEE New York Section."
"Officers of the Institute for the year beginning August 1, 1943, were announced in the report of the committee of tellers presented at the annual meeting during the recent national technical meeting at Cleveland, Ohio. The new officers are:"
"The United States and the republics of Latin America will continue to co-operate with private enterprise, through an inter-American commission, to further the economic development of the Western Hemisphere, William F. Machold, executive director of the United States Commission of Inter-American Development, stated in a recent issue of Foreign Commerce Weekly."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"It has long been recognized that excessive potentials may be developed in current-transformer secondary windings under unusual conditions, such as open circuits. Recent experience discloses that dangerous overvoltages (several thousand volts) may be produced as a result of normal switching operations on circuits containing lumped capacitance. A simple procedure for circuit analysis and evaluation of approximate voltage magnitude for the switching transient case is reported. For easy reference, there are included tables of calculated secondary voltage magnitudes covering a broad range of application. Under certain conditions, overvoltage protection is desirable and important. Aside from the potential hazard to life, current-transformer circuit insulation may be damaged, yet not be evident immediately. Performance at normal rated current may not be noticeably impaired, yet serious failure may occur in the presence of fault-current flow, thus nullifying the action of current-actuated protective relays. The characteristics of a new overvoltage protector expressly designed for current-transformer protection is presented. With this device current-transformer secondary voltages are limited to moderate values. The protector is small and compact,. and easily applied to existing as well as new current-transformer installations. The characteristics are permanent, not affected by repetitive operation, and result in negligible ratio error in the normal operating current range."
"WITH high-production machines requiring rapid-duty cycling and accurate positioning, the speed-time characteristics of accelerating and decelerating motors are very important. D-c shunt machines are often employed for these applications because of their flexibility both in starting and stopping. One method commonly employed to bring the rotating system to rest is to disconnect the motor from the line and reconnect it across a resistor. The shunt field remains connected to the line so that the motor acts as a generator driven by the stored energy in the load. This method is known as dynamic braking. The elementary connection of the dynamic-braking circuit is shown in Figure 1. Since the torque developed is proportional to the product of field flux and armature current, and the latter depends on the speed, the braking effect obtained decreases as the motor loses speed. A friction-type load, independent of the speed, must be present in order to bring the motor to rest."
"In the “Interim Report on Guides for Overloading Transformers and Voltage Regulators,”1 reference is made to the use of equivalent annual ambient temperatures in determining the loading of transformer equipment. This paper is to show a method of calculating the equivalent annual ambient temperature from readily available climatological data to avoid difficulties in other methods that have been proposed. An outline is given also of conditions under which the equivalent annual ambient temperature may be applied in determining permissible overloads for transformers."
"THE present war emergency makes it necessary that maximum use be made of existing equipment and that a minimum amount of critical materials be used for new equipment. The following guides have been prepared as an aid to those involved in the application and operation of circuit breakers and switch-gear."
"This paper describes certain design ideas applied to potential transformers to accomplish substantial reductions in volume and weight, with improved reliability and with better accuracy than the best requirements of the American Standards. The size of these units is such that they appear mostly as bushings. Perhaps the most striking feature of construction is the arrangement and the insulation of the high-voltage winding. Liquid-impregnated porous paper has been substituted for the combination liquid and solid used in the conventional designs. Another notable improvement incorporated in these transformers is the elimination of all gaskets. The amount of liquid insulation required is extremely small, and therefore premium insulating liquids (such as the Askarels) can be used without much additional expense."
"The successful parallel operation of transformers equipped with automatic load-ratio control and line-drop compensation requires that stability of operation be insured. In addition, experience has shown that it is frequently highly desirable that other automatic features be included which will contribute toward operating flexibility, and which will permit switching transformers in and out of parallel operation without disturbing the voltage level at the load center or causing an excessive initial circulating current at the instant of paralleling. This paper discusses the conditions which make these added features desirable, and presents a new control system whereby they all may readily be secured. In this new system, load current and circulating current are made to flow in separate paths in the control circuit, and each produce their effects independently, thereby insuring stable operation and maintaining the desired load-center voltage level. This separation of the load and circulating current, in conjunction with a modification in the closing circuit of the paralleling circuit breaker, also makes possible the avoidance of excessive initial circulating current when the breaker is closed. The simplicity and effectiveness of this arrangement in providing a fully automatic means for meeting all the anticipated operating requirements recommends its use in many applications."
"THE communication system that is used in the operation of railroads has developed very rapidly in the last few years. The most recent addition is what is known as train communication, which is a system of communication for operating purposes between railway vehicles and between such vehicles and fixed points. To illustrate, train communication equipment may be used for two-way telephone or code communication between the two ends of a train, between trains and stations, between trains and towers, between two parts of a train that are separated for work or otherwise, between two different trains whether they are on the same or on adjacent tracks, and between the conductor and locomotives in a receiving or in a classification yard. Following are illustrations of the uses to which such equipment may be put:"
"THE major problems in rating overhead wires according to thermal limits are 1. How materials lose their strength. 2. How hot wires become when various currents are passed through them."
"THE present use of high-speed light-weight propulsion motors on various types of traction vehicles is the result of an engineering evolution. An important phase of this development began approximately fifteen years ago, but the greatest progress has been during the past seven years. The motors resulting have definite advantages over their larger and heavier predecessors, and it is the purpose of this paper to point out and evaluate the more important of these advantages."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Retiring President Osborne urges immediate planning to meet postwar engineering problems. The effective solution of these problems will require co-ordination with community and other planning. One problem of major importance is the greater unification of the engineering profession."
"This article is the concluding portion of the fifth lecture in the series on ultrashort waves sponsored by the basic science group of the AIEE New York Section. In the design of radiators or antennas for ultrashort waves a complete solution of Maxwell's field equations usually is not practicable, and engineering approximations are resorted to. The first installment (July issue) presented a method to be used when the distribution of current and charge over the radiator surface is known. This concluding portion presents a second method for the calculation of the field in space on the basis of known field distribution in the immediate vicinity of the radiator."
"The experience of a manufacturer of combat instruments and other electrical measuring devices, many of which are “critical components” of fighting equipment, shows that worth-while contributions to the war effort can be achieved by a well-rounded material-conservation program."
"“In the interval since Tesla did his really great creative work his name has been associated with so many projects of questionable scientific quality that I imagine they may have raised doubts in the minds of many as to his real achievements” (Doctor Frank B. Jewett in a letter dated January 1943). The Edison Medal (1916) was awarded by the AIEE to Tesla “for his early original work in polyphase and high frequency alternating currents.”18 To record his “real achievements,” the accompanying two articles have been prepared by authors selected for their qualifying experience and professional standing."
"FARADAY'S principle of electromagnetic induction discovered in 1831 after some 40 years of incubation resulted in practical forms of dynamo machines. Electricity from mechanical power (instead of costly batteries) stimulated invention of apparatus and the development of various methods or “systems” for distributing and utilizing the electric current. The evolution of “systems” culminated in Tesla's polyphase alternating current, with its unique induction motor. His system has dominated the development of electric service during a half century and continues today as our method of using electric power."
"DURING the early part of the last decade of the 19th century the attention of the whole scientific world was challenged by Nikola Tesla's public demonstrations of the effects of high-frequency alternating currents. It was then very early in the commercial age of electricity. The incandescent light had not yet become commonplace, electric traction was just being introduced, and the controversy over the relative advantages of the a-c and d-c systems was at its height. Tesla's own contribution to this controversy — one destined to be largely influential in the ultimate establishment of the low-frequency a-c system of distribution — was fresh in mind. The scientific world, stimulated by the brilliant investigations of Hertz in the latter part of the previous decade, was just beginning to adjust itself to the actuality of electrical effects at a distance without the use of wires and to the explanation of them as due to electromagnetic radiation. Further, it must be remembered that the beautiful and curious phenomena of conduction through low-pressure gases at that time had neither lost their novelty nor received any convincing explanation."
"I am taking this opportunity to express my deep appreciation of the great honor which the members of this Institute have bestowed upon me in electing me their president."
"The National Inventors Council is soliciting suggestions leading to the solution of problems which have been posed to our armed forces by actual field operations. War conditions have demonstrated the need of various devices or methods not practically available and have shown the desirability of substitutes or alternatives for devices and methods already in our possession. Additional lists of current military needs may follow this present one. The list recently released by the Council includes:"
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"ANUMBER of papers have been written which discuss individual pilot-wire relaying schemes. A recent paper presented by the relay subcommittee of the committee on protective devices1 analyzed the pilot-wire circuit used in these relaying schemes. The present paper is a discussion of pilot-wire systems on a large metropolitan system where they have been in successful use for many years. The paper brings out the fact that pilot-wire relaying has many advantages over other forms of relaying because of selectivity and high-speed operation. It has also been found that the reliability of a complete relaying scheme is substantially better than would be expected from the record of the pilot-wire circuit as reported in the subcommittee paper at the 1943 winter technical meeting."
"The present war emergency requires that the maximum use be made of existing equipment and systems and that a minimum of critical material be used for new equipment."
"The demand for public transportation is increasing rapidly under present conditions of accelerated industrial activity. Adequate maintenance of electrical apparatus on rolling stock is essential to avoid impairment to the war effort. Measures which will assist to retain generators, motors, and control in service practically 100 per cent of the time are proper operation, effective inspection, preventive maintenance, keeping apparatus clean, accurate adjustments, prompt worn-part replacements, undelayed commutator conditioning, use of improved insulation, and correct lubrication. More careful attention to all of these factors during the present emergency will assure maximum rolling stock availability."
"The preceding paper of this series1 presented the theory and principles of operation of a new type of a-c motor and its control circuit. This system of speed control has the advantage of being economical from the standpoints of initial cost, efficiency of operation, and ability to correct power factor. However, these advantages are not realized unless the machine is suitably designed and its control circuit properly adjusted to supply the necessary voltages and currents. The purpose of this paper is to explain the design proportions and the adjustments of the supply voltages to provide for optimum operating characteristics."
"A core-type power-transformer design with shielded high-voltage winding and graded insulation has been developed for application in the higher-voltage classifications, and up to the present time more than one-quarter million kilovolt-ampere capacity of this kind of transformer has been manufactured and placed in service. The design employs a new form of construction for high-voltage power transformers which has been called “distributed concentric” construction. Outstanding characteristics of the distributed-concentrie-type transformer include:"
"For three years surveys have been made of the operation of small single-pole automatic reclosing oil circuit breakers (also called “oil circuit reclosers” and “service restorers”1) on rural electric distribution systems financed by the Rural Electrification Administration. Results of these surveys indicate that the ratio of lockouts to operations is less than five per cent in most cases, and that there are from four to nine operations per month per breaker during the spring and summer, with each breaker controlling about 20 miles of line. The number of breaker failures and other breaker difficulties have been a small percentage of the total number of breakers installed. These surveys, together with discussions with system managers, have indicated that automatic reclosing breakers offer many advantages for rural line sectionalizing. Presently available breakers can be much improved in operating characteristics, and new sectionalizing devices are needed. This paper presents suggestions for such improvements."
"The present war emergency requires that the maximum use be made of existing equipment and systems and that a minimum of critical material be used for new equipment."
"A capacitance bridge for the calibration of instrument potential transformers up to 300 kv is presented in this paper. This bridge provides measurements which are correct within 0.1 per cent on ratio and 3 minutes on phase angle. There are within the bridge arrangements for testing its accuracy as determined by the stability of its component arms. It is particularly desirable to have this means of self-testing if transformers are to be tested in a laboratory which does not have extensive standardizing facilities. Further advantages beyond accuracy for standardization purposes are flexibility and ease of operation for production testing, and low cost and small volume as compared to a high-voltage resistance potentiometer."
"WHEN carrier current was first applied to protective relaying of the directional type, it consisted of a simple telegraph channel. Subsequent developments have expanded the capabilities to the extent that each carrier channel for pilot relaying now may provide one or more of the following additional services:"
"Present Importance of Avoiding Over-Motoring IN several articles which recently have appeared in the technical press, it has been indicated that, in the interests of the war effort, standards of reliability in service may have to be compromised. As an example, one author advocates that electric motors should, in some cases, be utilized with continuous loads 25 per cent greater than has been considered good practice heretofore, “particularly if the ambient temperature within which the motors are expected to operate, is less than the recognized permissible maximum of 104 degrees Fahrenheit.” That author adds the caution that this may not be practicable in all cases, since other factors than the continuous thermal rating sometimes determine the motor size. Then he adds: “However, in most war plants, such cases are relatively few.”"
"NEED for a high-speed, balanced-relay current which will not function when the first half-cycle current is deficient in one of the two parallel circuits being protected, has been shown by the recent paper “The Effect of Current-Transformer Residual Magnetism on Balanced Current or Differential Relays.”1 This is the result of high residual magnetism of the current transformer caused principally by the d-c component of an offset wave on previous short circuits."
"IN the history of the operation of are furnaces for melting steel there have been occasional evidences of overvoltage transients. These evidences have been chiefly electrical breakdown of equipment associated with are furnaces which were not attributable to causes other than abnormally high voltage. In the last three years with the increased number of are-furnace installations and the increased seriousness of interruptions to production, a considerable amount of attention has been focused on this problem. This paper presents the results of voltage surge measurements made on two furnace installations in an attempt to accumulate accurate data as to the magnitude of such overvoltages and the factors which influence them. Before entering into a discussion of voltage surges, however, it seems advisable to review the component electrical parts of an arc-furnace circuit and the procedure followed in its operation."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The engineer has an important stake in the progress of inter-American relations and an outstanding part to play in translating inter-Americanism into reality. The Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and the Inter-American Development Commission both work to promote better co-operation and collaboration among the Americas."
"Interest in international standardization is increasing rapidly in Latin America — to a considerable extent through the efforts of the American Standards Association which has sought ways and means of supplying more adequate American representation and co-operation in the development of standards. The program for the future includes exchange of technical data among the various American republics and development of inter-American standards to the advantage of all the Americas."
"Electricity is indispensable in the finding and drilling for oil, and in the pumping, refining, and transportation of oil; electricity and oil are the victory twins which shall aid us in fighting and winning the war, declares this specialist in the application of electrical machinery in the oil industry."
"“For his contributions to the development of circuit-interrupting and circuit-rectifying apparatus,” Joseph Slepian was presented the AIEE Lamme Medal for 1942, which was established by the will of the late Benjamin Garver Lamme, at the recent AIEE national technical meeting in Cleveland, Ohio. This 15th presentation ceremony was opened by S. B. Williams, chairman of the Lamme Medal committee. L. W. Chubb outlined the achievements of the medalist."
"To the uninitiated, award of the Benjamin Garver Lamme Medal to Joseph Slepian seems remarkable, because the recipient was never formally trained as an electrical engineer. We who know the man and his work see nothing unusual in his selection for this honor, because we realized long ago that he is one of the great engineers of our time."
"Doctor Chubb has emphasized my own personal role in the technical developments which form the basis for this much-esteemed Lamme Medal Award. However, man does not work in a vacuum, but lives in an environment of things, men, and ideas, which react on him and upon which he reacts. My own environment during my professional life has, in large part, been that aggregation of buildings, tools, money, men, ideas, and traditions, known as the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, a corporation organized for manufacturing electrical machinery for the profit of its stockholders. That environment must have been propitious, or highly favorable to the development of such scientific talents as I had, or I probably would not be on this platform today. Perhaps a few words about my first experience with this organization will be of interest."
"Mr. Trevor deals with the reception of ultrashort electromagnetic waves over line-of-sight paths under practical conditions. He shows that, when directive antennas are employed, there is an optimum antenna height for which the direct and reflected rays are received in phase producing maximum effect. The concept of excess-noise ratio is developed which evaluates the merit of a receiver in a manner independent of band width, receiver impedance, signal-generator impedance, or frequency. This is the concluding article in a series of six on ultrashort electromagnetic waves. The material contained in these articles was originally presented as a series of lectures before the basic science group of the New York Section at Columbia University. A consolidated reprint will be available (see announcement elsewhere in this issue). PAUL C. CROMWELL, Chairman, Symposium Committee (College of Engineering, New York University, New York 53, N. Y.)"
"Wartime contingencies determined the redesign of a major high-voltage transmission line to save 985 tons of newly mined copper for other war purposes. The result is a segmental line carrying five different types of expanded aluminum and copper conductors."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, August 4, 1943."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Several specific means of improving our patent system are proposed in the first report of the National Patent Planning Commission, presented recently to President Roosevelt after an 18-month investigation of the mechanics of the patent law and the use of patents. The commission was appointed in December 1941, directly after the attack on Pearl Harbor, because the President believed that a study needed to “be made of our existing patent laws and procedure … by a commission familiar with the problems of science, industry, agriculture, labor, and the consumer.” The members of the commission are: Charles F. Kettering, chairman; Chester C. Davis, Francis P. Gaines, Edward F. McGrady, and Owen D. Young; Andrey A. Potter, executive director; Conway P. Coe, executive secretary."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"THE growing complexity of the electrical systems in use on modern aircraft has given rise to need for a complete line of magnetically operated switches or relays suited to conditions encountered in this type of service. Relays may be classified according to use as control relays and power relays, or in the terminology of the industrial-control engineer, relays and contactors. This paper will be confined to a discussion of power relays or contactors. Most aircraft in use at the present time have 24-volt d-c systems; consequently only low-voltage d-c contactors will be considered."
"The present war emergency requires that the maximum use be made of existing equipment and systems and that a minimum of critical material be used for new equipment. This publication and other guides and reports in this series have been prepared for the information of users during the war emergency. Upon termination of the war emergency they will be reconsidered by the Standards committee and the committees which prepared them, and will be approved, revised for normal use, or rescinded. This procedure is being followed in preference to the preparation of special emergency standards which might involve redesigning and drastic changes in manufacturing practices. These guides will accomplish the maximum conservation of critical materials, since they provide for the maximum use of existing equipment and systems, as well as new equipment without changing the fundamental basis on which the present standards have been prepared. Synopsis: Out-of-step protection of synchronous machines and system interconnections is now demanding serious consideration, first because the heavy loading of machines and transmission lines has introduced many stability problems and secondly, because outages resulting from out-of-step conditions may interfere seriously with the war effort. The relay subcommittee has, therefore, considered it timely to prepare a report on the subject and has appointed a working group for that purpose. The report describes briefly out-of-step phenomena, the methods of protection that are available, and a cross section of the practices and requirements of representative utility systems."
"Less important transmission lines are usually protected with directional over-current relays. Much better protection and consequently improved service would be provided by modern high-speed distance relays but at several times the cost. What is required is a distance relay arrangement considerably less expensive than the relays now used on high-voltage transmission lines but with as nearly as possible the same characteristics. Such an arrangement is now available. The paper describes successful tests in the laboratory and on an actual system in this country with both natural and staged faults. The equipment consists of a single high-speed reactance relay which is enabled to protect all three phases by being automatically switched to the correct potential and current by a phase selector relay."
"A SOLENOID is customarily rated in terms of the minimum pull exerted at any point within its rated stroke when a certain fraction of its nominal voltage is impressed on the coil. Furthermore, when full nominal voltage is applied continuously, the temperature rise of the coil must not exceed a certain value, depending on the class of insulation used and the maximum ambient temperature."
"Now that excitation characteristics are being made available to the application engineer, it has become increasingly important that a simple accurate calculation method be used to determine the errors. “Inphase addition” has all the advantages of simplicity, and, under careful analysis, it is apparent that over the normal ranges involved, the more complicated procedure of vector addition is not warranted. This simple method has been extended to cover complete curve drawing from only one calculation by a graphical process."
"The present war emergency requires that the maximum use be made of existing equipment and systems and that a minimum of critical material be used for new equipment. This publication and other guides and reports in this series have been prepared for the information of users during the war emergency. Upon termination of the war emergency they will be reconsidered by the standards committee and the committees which prepared them, and will be approved, revised for normal use, or rescinded. This procedure is being followed in preference to the preparation of special emergency standards which might involve redesigning and drastic changes in manufacturing practices. These guides will accomplish the maximum conservation of critical materials, since they provide for the maximum use of existing equipment and systems, as well as new equipment, without changing the fundamental basis on which the present standards have been prepared."
"The present war emergency requires that the maximum use be made of existing equipment and systems and that a minimum of critical material be used for new equipment. This publication, and other guides and reports in this series, have been prepared for the information of users during the war emergency. Upon termination of the war emergency they will be reconsidered by the standards committee and the committees which prepared them, and will be approved, revised for normal use, or rescinded. This procedure is being followed in preference to the preparation of special emergency standards which might involve redesigning and drastic changes in manufacturing practices. These guides will accomplish the maximum conservation of critical materials, since they provide for the maximum use of existing equipment and systems, as well as new equipment without changing the fundamental basis on which the present standards have been prepared."
"THE importance of the use of radio in aerial navigation is well known. Of comparable importance to the operation of the aircraft, however, is the use of electricity in other forms, as for instance for engine ignition, for lighting, for control, and a variety of purposes. Since commutators and other forms of arcing contacts used in this equipment may cause interference with radio under some conditions, careful planning is necessary to get the fullest use from both power and radio equipment, and not over-burden the aircraft with attachments solely to make the radio work."
"In the design and application of electrical control equipment the problem of obtaining complete field data and requirements is always present in some degree. The problem is acute in branches of the electrical industry supplying aircraft control. Three factors contribute to the difficulty: 1. The tremendous engineering effort centered in the aircraft industry causes rapid technical changes that soon make accumulated data obsolete. 2. Technical data on utilization devices are not always available to either the aircraft or electrical manufacturer. The mushroom growth and technical advance of the aircraft industry have, in some cases, outdistanced laboratory equipment and personnel capacity so the data an electrical-control manufacturer would like to have are simply not available. 3. The secrecy surrounding many aircraft developments blocks the passing of information from the aircraft manufacturer to the electrical manufacturer. The electrical-control manufacturer can meet this problem, in part, by making available complete performance data on switching equipment offered for sale. Properly chosen, these data enable the aircraft engineer to match control means with his electrical utilization device requirements. In the preparation of such data the following considerations are of primary importance to both the user and producer of switches. The functions of an aircraft switch may be classed broadly as follows: 1. To establish a circuit. 2. To maintain a circuit. 3. To interrupt a circuit. Performance of these functions is importantly affected by the following characteristics of the load: (a). Inrushes. (b). Inductance. (c). Current. (d). Voltage."
"THE word “inverter” is a generic term used to designate any device which receives direct current and delivers alternating current. Such a device may consist of electronic elements, or vibrating contacts, or mechanical choppers, or rotary types. The scope of this paper will be confined to a discussion of rotary-type conversion equipment."
"The Amplidyne generator has been widely applied and is recognized as an important device in the electrical industry. Since it is used primarily as a power amplifier in regulating systems, the requirements of an amplifier for this use are analyzed, and the characteristics of the Amplidyne generator are compared in this paper with these requirements. Owing to the large number of distinct windings of the Amplidyne, it is desirable to follow a consistent practice in terminal markings and polarities. Proposals for this purpose are outlined in the paper, and typical values of amplification for different output ratings are given. Service experience and an application typifying the use of the Amplidyne are discussed, so that the reader may become familiar with the device and its uses."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The glaze storm which visited eastern New York State in December 1942 exceeded in area covered and weight of ice any previously recorded, according to the authors of this article, one of whom was active in the repair work throughout the storm and restoration period. The effect of the storm on electric-power systems in the area and the conclusions that can be drawn from it regarding heavy loading conditions due to such storms are discussed."
"The electrical phase shift between the current and the applied voltage in a series-resonant circuit as the resonant-circuit tuning is varied is used as the basis of operation for resonant electrical control systems. The author discusses application of such systems to aircraft and industrial problems, and to single and multiphase radio control."
"Sweden finds the answer to an increased demand for electric power in the intensified development and expansion of water-power facilities and the reduction of steam-power production dependent on imported coal."
"A consulting engineer presents his idea of the place the engineering profession should occupy in the community. The engineer's relation to his fellow men, particularly to those involved in the economic development of public improvements and industrial enterprise, and the future of engineering as a profession are important aspects of the article."
"In making dielectric calculations, it is important to be able to correlate the fundamental characteristics of the dielectric material with measured quantities such as current, loss, power factor, and capacitance. In this article the author has attempted to co-ordinate in a simple manner all the relations necessary to dielectric computation."
"Too often an engineering “orphan,” the small a-c generator, nevertheless, is important in its sphere. Factors related to the design and application of these units are discussed herein."
"A three-day technical meeting of the AIEE Southern District will be held in Roanoke, Va., November 16–18, 1943. The tentative technical program has been arranged to be of aid in the war effort. The four technical sessions tentatively scheduled deal with the following subjects: wartime operation, wartime development, special equipment, and power supply. In addition, there will be a general session opening the meeting on November 16, and two dinner meetings with specially invited guest speakers. A meeting of the District executive committee will be held at the conclusion of the opening session. Headquarters for the District meeting will be in the Hotel Roanoke."
"Although hundreds of short-wave sets and other amateur radio apparatus, and scores of fine cameras which once belonged to private citizens, now are used by Signal Corps units of the Army Service Forces, even greater quantities of this type of equipment are needed."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"The present war emergency requires that the maximum use be made of existing equipment and systems and that a minimum of critical material be used for new equipment. This publication, as well as other guides and reports in this series, has been prepared for the information of users during the war emergency. Upon termination of the war emergency, they will be reconsidered by the Standards committee and the committees that prepared them, and will be approved, revised for normal use, or rescinded. This procedure is being followed in preference to the preparation of special emergency Standards which might involve redesigning and drastic changes in manufacturing practices. These guides will accomplish the maximum conservation of critical materials, since they provide for the maximum use of existing equipment and systems, as well as new equipment, without changing the fundamental basis on which the present Standards have been prepared."
"The paper sets forth the different operating conditions met with in aircraft generators as compared with standard types of industrial generators. It discusses certain features inherent in applications to aircraft, such as reliability and light weight. Certain requirements in both electrical and mechanical design are imposed by the fact that a plane is flying through varying altitudes resulting in changing atmospheric conditions, such as rarefication, low temperature, and ionization. Other unusual conditions are created from the motion of the plane setting up accelerating forces on the generator, as well as mechanical forces caused by engine vibrations. Because of important features such as commutation, voltage regulation, cooling, driving means, and light weight, special and unusual methods must be employed. In solving these problems the most perfect methods known in the art of building d-c machines must be resorted to, and the paper lays particular stress on the use of compensation."
"FREQUENCY modulation is known to most people today as a system of broadcasting that is remarkably free from the effects of interference and is capable of providing high fidelity reception. These advantages have been realized largely by employing frequencies of 40 megacycles and higher which are well above the present broadcast band. A great amount of effort has been devoted to this field, and therefore, frequency modulation has been well analyzed both in theory1–3 and experiment.4,5 However, most of the work has been done with systems using a large deviation ratio which is usually defined as the ratio of the carrier deviation from normal to the highest modulating frequency."
"Unbalanced magnetic pull may be defined as the net sideways force between the stator and rotor of an electric machine resulting from a difference in the air-gap flux densities on opposite sides of the machine. This difference in flux density is, in general, caused by a difference in the air gaps on the two sides."
"The rectification properties of selenium cells were first discovered in the year 1883. C. T. Fritts described them in the American Journal of Science.11,12 However, they were never used to any extent, except possibly as photocells. After the introduction of the copper-oxide rectifier, research activities were stimulated, and selenium cells were again rediscovered. The first commercial cells were made in Germany in the early 30's, and, as the technique of manufacture improved, better cells were made with better life expectancy. The General Electric Company, after a period of developmental activity, started to make cells in 1938, first in its research laboratories, and subsequently a manufacturing plant was set up which permits producing cells in large quantities within relatively close electrical tolerances. This paper contains data pertaining to these cells particularly, and the information may not apply in detail to cells manufactured by other methods without some correction factors."
"The reliable performance of high-interrupting-capacity fuses in the intermediate voltage field has led to an increased interest in the application of such fuses for the higher voltages. Unfortunately, a fuse for the higher voltages cannot be made by simply enlarging or lenghthening the lower-voltage devices. To interrupt the higher currents in a reasonable structure, arc lengths must be kept short to reduce mechanical stresses. Interruption in these short distances creates high dielectric stresses external to the fuse that would endanger the operation of a device built along conventional lines. Adequate conductors for carrying the higher currents through the longer-length fuse must be moved quickly during interruption. A new high-voltage fuse in which interruption of the higher currents is accomplished in a short length without undue voltage stresses adjacent to the fuse has been developed. This fuse has a new arrangement of conductors which permits rapid extension of the arc without expulsion of any conductor parts from the fuse. All this has been accomplished with a fuse of such light weight that it permits the use of a drop-out design which is a necessity at the higher voltages to prevent subsequent flashovers caused by leakage currents. The interrupting medium is compressed boric acid which has proved very effective and reliable at the lower voltages. Repeated interrupting and mechanical tests have demonstrated the suitability of the new fuse for service on important transmission circuits."
"One of the means used by the telegraph companies for improving the speed of their service is the provision of printing telegraph circuits between their central offices and the offices of many users of the telegraph. In the beginning, circuits of that type were restricted to patrons whose volume of telegraph business and proximity to a central office justified the expense involved in their installation and maintenance. A large part of that expense, when the patrons are located remotely from the central office, is in the line-wire costs. This paper describes an automatic switching means for economically enabling a large number of patrons, when grouped in one locality, to be furnished printing telegraph service with a distant central office by causing them to share the use of a comparatively small number of line wires between that locality and the distant central office This paper also cites benefits gained from present installations."
"Airplane circuit breakers are recognized as important units in the electrical systems of military aircraft. The design of such circuit breakers can be combined with switching and contactor functions. This makes possible the use of well-developed switch and contactor structures. The design of such circuit breakers must provide for operation under the very exacting requirements of military aircraft service. The principal function. of both manual and remote-control circuit breakers is to provide short-circuit protection. There is some question as to the desirability of motor protection for military aircraft. Many motor functions are vital to the operation of the aircraft, and it may be better to operate the motor to destruction rather than to stop at a safe temperature or load value. Where motor overload protection is desired, it is necessary to correlate circuit-breaker and motor characteristics. Both manual and remote-control circuit breakers can be made to provide for holding the circuit closed in emergency to “force” the motor or other equipment."
"The war, with its attendant shortage of critical materials, has led to a considerable increase in the number of tapped lines. This paper deals with the method of protecting circuits of this kind under the three headings: 1. Pilot-wire protection, a-c and d-c schemes. 2. Carrier-current protection. 3. Other protective schemes. Directional overcurrent or network. Distance type. Three-terminal lines are classified into three types with regard to other system connections between the terminals connected by the line in question. These are further classified as to power sources to aid in analyzing limiting conditions for relay applications. Typical operating characteristics of a-c pilot-wire equipment for three-terminal lines are shown. In general in dealing with pilot-wire, carrier, and other types of protection, those problems peculiar to application on three-terminal lines are analyzed and methods given for solving some of the more troublesome problems."
"FOR a number of years prior to the present urgency for the production of high-quality steel, the development in control methods for electric-arc furnaces remained substantially stationary in this country. These devices were in the general form of vibrating regulators or contact-making ammeters which rapidly connected the electrode motors to and disconnected them from a constant d-c voltage source. In Europe, meanwhile, various methods employing Ward-Leonard or hydraulic control means were developed, some of which were reported to result in smoother operation under the highly fluctuating transient conditions of the arc."
"An ever increasing demand for electric power in aircraft has been felt for some time. The necessity of using an electric storage battery started the practice of accompanying it with a d-c generator, first of low current and voltage capacity, later of 50-ampere 12-volt rating, and for the past few years of 200-ampere 24-volt output. In the largest four-engine aircraft, even four generators of maximum capacity do not furnish ample electric energy. Experiments have proved so far that generation of a-c power and application of lightweight transformers, together with its conversion to direct current by means of selenium rectifiers, is entirely a reliable and practical way of attaining large, trouble-free electric plant capacity in aircraft. The subsequent pages and illustrations portray the current progress made with lightweight power transformers and rectifiers in the a-c — d-c aircraft systems. They also represent at least a partial answer to the questions raised by Lieutenant Colonel Holliday1 when he discussed problems of applications of electric power in aircraft two years ago."
"THE mechanical forces acting on busbar supports during short circuit are determined both by the magnitudes of the mutual electromagnetic forces exerted among the bus conductors and by the elastic properties of the supporting structure: its motional resistance, natural frequencies, and physical nature and arrangement. Comprehensive mathematical studies,∗∗ substantiated by experimental data, of the individual and collective effects of these factors and general methods for calculating the magnitudes involved have been advanced by Schurig and Sayre,1 Dahlgren,2,3 and Pilcher.4 In shorter articles based on the work of the first-named Schurig, Fricke and Sayre,5 Tanberg,6 Specht,7 Edson,8 and others9 have presented certain charts, nonograms, and short cuts that facilitate the numerical labor incident to actual calculation."
"The investigation of the fractional-slot windings with respect to their harmonic (differential) leakage, to noise, and so forth, requires the knowledge of the distribution factors of their harmonics."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The history of copper mining is of especial interest inasmuch as copper has become one of our most strategic weapons in the winning of the war. One of the principal methods in use today is open-pit mining. The mine of the Utah Copper Company described in this article is typical of modern open-pit mines."
"In postwar agricultural production electricity is destined to be a tremendous force. First postwar market for electrical appliances will be the farm, says this author, and food and agriculture will be a predominating influence in the making of the permanent peace to follow the war. The electrical industry should recognize the importance of this developing market and prepare to cope with agriculture's problems."
"Intelligent distribution-system design is dependent on proper evaluation of incompletely diversified loads, says this distribution engineer. Such a method of load analysis is set forth in this article."
"Arc welding has made considerable progress in the past several years, much of it as a direct result of the war. The contributions made by the three big factors in arc welding — technique, electrodes, and machines — to the development of the science are evaluated in this article."
"Widespread adoption of technical research is recommended as a vital part of the advance planning necessary to the conversion of industrial resources from wartime to peacetime production."
"A brief historical review of two of the existing international standards-making bodies of chief concern to the electrical industry."
"On the theory that employers look with favor upon prospective employees who list among their qualifications training in safety engineering, The Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College has been conducting a successful course in this field for several years."
"The torquemeter method of operating aircraft engines was developed to meet the need for more accurate engine control and to help ease the work of the pilot. The horsepower meter described herein was developed to provide suitable and accurate instrumentation for that method."
"For the nomination of national officers to be voted upon in the spring of 1944, the AIEE national nominating committee will meet during the winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 24–28, 1944. The officers to be elected are: a president, a national treasurer, three directors, and five vice-presidents, one from each of the odd-numbered, geographical Districts. Fellows only are eligible for the office of president, and Members and Fellows for the offices of vice-president, director, and national treasurer."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"One of the greatest problems facing the rubber industry today is that of improving the quality of synthetic rubber, Edwin J. Thomas, president of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio, stated in a recent address before the Engineering Society of Detroit."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"IT has been recognized that the presence of harmonic currents in the supply circuit are a source of additional heating in the generators supplying a rectifier load, particularly where a six-phase rectifier is the total load. Robert Pohl has presented papers on this subject, and from his work has concluded that an appreciable reduction in the rating of turbine generators is required when the rectifiers are connected for 6-phase and 12-phase operation.1,2 Experience in this country with turbine generators operating with rectifier loads indicated that the reduction factors presented by Doctor Pohl were too large, so a test program was carried out to determine the practical limits of such loads. The test results and experience both indicate that for 12-phase operation and above, the effect on the supply system is very small and in most cases may be neglected."
"Increased production of steel alloy for the war effort has brought about a wider use of electric-arc furnaces, and with this improvements have been made in automatic regulation of electrode position."
"A method is presented for finding the zeros of the impedance or admittance function of a Foster reactance network. More generally, the method is one of finding the zeros of a rational function having alternate zeros and poles, all of which are simple, if the poles are known; or of finding the poles if the zeros are known. The method consists of writing the function as a sum of partial fractions and replacing all but two of the fractions, depending on the zero to be found, by a constant and solving the resulting quadratic equation. In this way an upper and lower bound of a zero may be found, and, if need be, the method may be applied repeatedly to give a pair of bounds which will be as close to the required zero as necessary. The method has particular value if the rational function is the impedance or admittance function of one of Foster's reactance networks, since these functions are obtained directly from the networks as sums of partial fractions of the form An/(Bn2 – w2). Hence, the zeros may be obtained without reducing the function to the polynomial form. The new method may not always be shorter in application than other known methods, but its advantage lies in the facility with which an upper and lower bound of the required zero may be found and in the possibility of dealing with the partial-fraction form of the impedance or admittance function."
"One of the advantages of the application of mercury-arc rectifiers to large electrochemical loads, such as aluminum cell lines, is that, if all the rectifiers are excited simultaneously, they will pick up and share the load together. This eliminates need for large d-c cell-line circuit breakers."
"Advances in the theory of synchronous machines have created a number of reactance constants, and improvements in theory have led to continual refinements in methods of calculation and test. This paper presents an improvement in the calculation of the quadrature synchronous reactance, compares calculated with test results, and discusses four methods of test, one of which is an improvement in simplicity and ease of accomplishment over methods of test presented previously."
"Solution of many power-circuit problems depends upon the magnitude, duration, and frequency of occurrence of transient voltages and currents produced by circuit changes. Circuit-opening or recovery-voltage transients are fundamental in the operation of interrupting devices and may be important from the standpoint of the dielectric strength of circuit elements. Circuit-closing transients may be important from the standpoint of inrush currents and occasionally from the standpoint of overvoltages. Both types of transients may be increased greatly if restriking and repetitive interruptions take place."
"AMONG the several causes other than lightning which can result in power-system overvoltages, switching surges rank high in importance. In the past the magnitudes of switching surges have been considered on a statistical basis, but the need for frequent switching operations naturally led to their study and to analyses of their causes and magnitudes."
"AMONG the more recent developments in a-c resistance welding control is the voltage compensator. This compensator is an auxiliary control used in conjunction with a standard type of phase-controlled welding panel, the circuit of which is shown in Figure 1. The function of the voltage compensator is to maintain the weld current substantially constant irrespective of line-voltage variations. The inability to obtain new feeders and the burden of added loads in war plants have in many cases made the power systems incapable of supplying several welding machines simultaneously without experiencing an appreciable drop in line voltage. Welding heat, which varies with current squared, will be reduced by 19 per cent for a ten per cent drop in line voltage; a line drop of 20 per cent will reduce the welding heat 36 per cent which is intolerable for consistent welding. These conditions can be remedied by the addition of a small inexpensive auxiliary control, such as the voltage compensator. The regulation of many overworked high reactance welding feeders can then be tolerated because consistent welds will be produced, whereas without proper compensation, poor welds would inevitably result. A compensator unit is shown in Figure 2 installed just in front of the current transformer in the bottom of a portable welding-machine control panel."
"The control of d-c motors was one of the first electronic-control projects. Recent developments, particularly the fully automatic and co-ordinated control of the armature power circuit and the field power circuit, have greatly increased the acceptability of these controls for industrial use."
"THIS paper is intended to present some of the problems encountered in determining unbalanced fault currents and unusual results that may be expected on systems with parallel lines on a common right of way. Correct results are required so that proper co-ordination and application of relays may be accomplished. Fault studies must be made and constantly revised, as a power system changes and expansions take place. Also, future conditions must be studied so that intelligent selection may be made of circuit breakers and current transformers. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss"
"IN the design of an insulation, mechanical and chemical problems must be considered as well as the electrical problem. This is particularly true in the design of an ignition cable for aircraft."
"The primary function of the normal-type oil circuit breaker is to interrupt the circuit as rapidly as possible, without disturbing the connected system, and to leave the oil circuit breaker in substantially the same electrical and mechanical condition as before. The interruption of an electrical circuit is always accompanied by an arc, and it has been found that if the arc and its associated space are rapidly cooled or dethermalized it is readily extinguished. This paper describes dethermalizing arc quenchers that cause the arc and its associated space to be cooled by the controlled flow of oil through and around the arc. The action of these quenchers has been verified by field tests on the 16-kv and 220-kv systems of The Southern California Edison Company Ltd."
"This paper describes a new one-cycle directional overcurrent relay which is not limited in its application by lack of contact co-ordination. That contact co-ordination is important is indicated by the many incorrect relay operations which have been traced to the common practice of adding instantaneous attachment to directional overcurrent relays. For years it has been known that directional control is not sufficient for instantaneous directional over-current relays. This paper describes a new application of “memory action” which for the first time complements directional control to give always correct operation. The new idea is to use “memory action” to obtain a time delay in the operation of the overcurrent unit in the order of one-half cycle. Of course “memory action” is also used in the directional element to retain a high torque level even if the fault causes drastic voltage reduction. Both elements are of the rugged induction cylinder."
"MANY electric-arc-welding applications are of such a nature that the welding machine is running with no load for a large percentage of the operating time. With this low utilization factor or “arc time,” no-load power consumption becomes an appreciable item. In plants employing many machines there will be long leads between the machines and the work, either by necessity or for convenience. Under these conditions, the practicability of expecting the operator, or welder, to turn his machine on and off each time he plans to weld is certainly very remote. The automatic welding-machine starter has been developed to shut down the machine during the normal no-load running periods. Automatic starters have been in operation under average shipyard welding conditions for the past few months. Application of the automatic starters effects a very appreciable saving in power cost, about 25 per cent or more. In addition, a marked reduction in average demand on distribution systems is realized so that additional machines, up to 75 per cent, may be added without further power facilities expenditure."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Communication facilities have been improved and expanded to meet wartime exigencies with a minimum sacrifice in essential services and speed. The way in which this adjustment has been made in the face of manpower and materials shortages makes one of the interesting chapters in World War II."
"Pure copper is used extensively in electric equipment because of its high conductivity, but its low tensile strength and its high specific gravity make it generally unsuitable for structural purposes. The author describes the problems involved in adjusting the various properties of copper so that the greatest efficiency in the use of the equipment can be achieved."
"“One outstanding characteristic of this wartime training or education is its extreme practicality. Another is narrowness. In the postwar period we must preserve the practicality but not the narrowness, for peacetime students must be trained to meet situations that cannot be foreseen in a rapidly evolving civilization.”"
"In accordance with the wartime policies adopted last year by the AIEE board of directors, heavy emphasis was placed on problems related to the war at the AIEE Southern District technical meeting held November 16–18, 1943, at Roanoke, Va. In fact, almost every single item on the program was related either directly or indirectly to problems imposed by the war."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The AIEE Sections committee, George W. Bower (M '40) chairman, is promoting the formation of aeronautical technical discussion groups in localities where there is evidence such groups are needed. In addition, the Sections committee, jointly with the membership and technical program committees, is encouraging meetings on this subject in other Sections where the organization of a separate group is not possible because of the lack of available members. Two aircraft discussion groups have already been formed and are functioning, one in the Los Angeles Section, and one in the Philadelphia Section."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Although wartime conditions have influenced many of the activities of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development during the past year, nevertheless progress in furthering the aims of ECPD has been achieved, and attention has been given to problems arising directly as a result of the war. These were among the more important facts brought out at the 11th annual meeting of ECPD held October 23, 1943, in New York, N. Y. Joint organization of eight national engineering societies, ECPD has as its general objective the enhancement of the professional status of the engineer."
"Final details of over-all organization and selection of the technical panels to carry on the research upon which the recommendations of the Radio Technical Planning Board will be based have been completed by that board. As previously reported (EE, June '43, p. 278 and Sept. '43, p. 427) the RTPB will formulate plans, restricted to engineering considerations, for the technical future of the radio industry and services and advise the overnment, industry, and the public of its recommendations."
"A basic “urgency” plan to integrate production needs with man-power resources wherever and whenever conditions of urgency may develop any place in the United States have been announced by the War Production Board and the War Manpower Commission."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"IT is generally recognized that through the medium of transformers surges can be transferred from circuits exposed to lightning to circuits considered otherwise nonexposed. The latter may connect to rotating machines or to industrial apparatus of inherently low-impulse insulation level. On these seemingly nonexposed circuits may be found apparatus of old design which as a rule are even more vulnerable to surges. In these problems the question is to determine 1. The extent apparatus may be endangered. 2. Whether the relative risk incurred weighed against the importance of the installation and the cost of damage, warrants protective equipment."
"This paper is a continuation of “Effect of Frequency on Let-Go Currents”2 and concludes studies made to determine let-go currents. This paper extends the analysis to cover various wave shapes and includes a method of determining reasonably safe currents for men, women, and children, for sine waves, direct current, and complex wave forms containing both a-c and d-c components. As in previous papers, conclusions regarding reasonably safe electric currents are based on the criterion that a safe current is the let-go current for 99 1/2 per cent of a large group of healthy subjects."
"This paper on electric shock covers the subject of sine-wave let-go currents for both men and women and contains an analysis which permits improved accuracy in predicting the response for large groups based on experiments made on a relatively small number of subjects. It should be of especial interest to persons who have had accidents in which they barely escaped “freezing” to an electrified conductor and also to those interested in electrical safety. The range of frequencies covered is from 5 to 10,000 cycles and also direct current. The paper is the most comprehensive treatment of the subject yet published as the analysis permits predicting currents of a specified degree of safety for both men and women for this wide frequency range."
"So far as can be determined, the development of the concepts of wear resistance, wear resistivity, wear susceptance, and wear susceptibility as given in this paper is thoroughly new and original. These concepts are believed to be significant and useful tools that may further an understanding of the basic problems of sliding electrical contacts. For example, they offer means for making a valid comparison of brushes and brush materials insofar as wearing qualities are concerned. Moreover, they provide a clue to the proper consideration and evaluation of the large number of variables that are at work as brush disintegration takes place."
"The increase in airplane electrical loads has made necessary an increase in the distribution voltage to avoid excessive copper weight. Difficulties in the use of higher d-c voltages are mentioned, and past experience with a 400-cycle three-phase system is outlined. In the light of this experience and of new developments in progress, requirements are outlined for a larger 400-cycle system with multiple generating units operating in parallel."
"IN writing a paper of this kind for the AIEE, it is needless to say that one part of the aircraft electric-motor protection problem is protection from excessive temperatures. The major problem with the aircraft electric motor is to make available its maximum output before the protector disconnects the aircraft electric motor from the line."
"THE design of mercury-arc rectifiers is based, as is that of all electrical apparatus, upon knowledge gained from fundamental principles, test data, and operating experience. Our knowledge of the physical action occurring within the rectifier is very limited. While the fundamental processes which take place in an arc discharge have been quite completely described by physicists,1 their complexity has prevented their expression in a form usable by the engineer. For this reason rectifier design depends, to a larger degree than does the design of most electrical apparatus, upon experimental data obtained from tests."
"THE Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario and the Beauharnois Light, Heat, and Power Company have placed in service recently a new type of power-line-carrier equipment. Channels for high-class interterminal communication are combined with other channels which provide a transfer of impulses for use with the relaying on transmission lines, giving a desired improvement in the speed of operation."
"Existing industrial practice for determining the temperature rise of d-c machines is based on measurements with thermometers, placed on exposed or accessible surfaces of the machine. Tests using resistance measurements with improvements in technique have disclosed the existence of considerably higher internal temperatures than those indicated by thermometers, especially for short-time rated machines. Experience has indicated, nevertheless, that such machines have entirely satisfactory service records. Greater accuracy and consistency are possible with the resistance method, with proper measurement techniques, and it affords a truer indication of winding temperatures. This paper, therefore, suggests that the resistance method should be more generally used and should ultimately be recognized in the Standards as is now the case for railway motors. With this in view, detailed recommendations for resistance-measurement technique are presented. Correlation of the temperature rises determined by the resistance method with those measured by the thermometer method is necessary if resistance methods are to supplant the now standard thermometer methods. This paper shows the relation existing between temperature rises measured by thermometer and those measured by resistance on variously ventilated and insulated machines. Values for temperature limits measured by resistance for continuous and short-time rated class-A and class-B insulated d-c machines are presented. These are consistent with the recently published AIEE Standard 1A “Report on General Principles for Rating of Electrical Apparatus for Short-time, Intermittent or Varying Duty.” The information presented in this paper is intended to apply primarily to low-voltage (approximately 600 volts maximum) d-c machines with form-wound armature coils and conventional types of field coils."
"LOAD-FLOW analysis in a-c networks is increasing in importance because of the greater use of loop circuits in transmission and distribution systems to obtain the advantages of network operation."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE distribution of power in the steady state of interconnected electric networks with large numbers of generators and of consumers of power is well known for a given system. The flow of energy in detail depends on the distribution of the loads, on the admission of power to the prime movers, and on the data for all the connecting lines. With every change of the power distribution in any branch of the system, transient phenomena are initiated which influence the entire complex of prime movers and generators, motors and other consumers, and intermediate lines. As is often observed in the larger systems, the changes in the flow of energy lead to oscillations of power and frequency, depending on the electrical and mechanical data of the generation and the use of the a-c energy. Also we will exclude such very slow fluctuations as may be caused by the control of the steam plant proper or the regulation of the flow of water and which have no direct relation to the electrical part of the system. We shall concentrate our attention on those power oscillations which influence the system frequency and change the distribution of the flow of the active energy within and between the various parts of interconnected systems. These electromechanical fluctuations affect the speed of the generators with their prime movers and speed governors as well as the speed of the numerous motors of the consumers."
"The Sorocabana Railway electrification is noteworthy in that the railroad is a meter-gauge line run largely on wood fuel. The lack of suitable national coal or oil sources and the increasing difficulty of obtaining wood fuel led the railway to electrify its line between São Paulo and Santo Antonio. Rolling stock is outstanding in that the locomotives will be the most powerful 3,000-volt narrow-gauge units ever built. The multiple-unit cars are the first 3,000-volt meter-gauge units to be used. The distribution system is designed to minimize the use of steel supports. Steel must be imported, and locally made concrete poles are to be utilized extensively. The power-supply system using 3,000-volt mercury-arc rectifiers is the first installation in this hemisphere to use rectifier conversion with regenerative braking on locomotives. Regenerated energy returned to the substations will be dissipated in resistors roof-mounted at the several stations."
"Measurements of coupling factors between ground wires and phase conductors, as a function of ground-wire voltage, have been made for a sufficient number of cases to determine them for any of the standard transmission-line configurations. It was found that the effect of corona can be expressed in terms of an effective corona ground-wire radius to be used in the conventional coupling-factor equations. Curves are also presented for the quick determination of coupling factors for all standard line configurations. A photographic study of the visual characteristics of surge corona was made for a comparison with the effective radius and with 60-cycle corona. Actual measurements were made for potentials up to about 2,000 kv, but the data were extrapolated to 6,000 kv with what is considered to be reasonably good accuracy."
"ONE of the primary problems which confront the designer of electrical machinery is the predetermination of losses. This is peculiarly true for the designer of high-speed turbine-driven generators; the losses must be kept low, not only to increase the efficiency but also to keep the size of the apparatus to a minimum."
"DURING the 20 years or so that have elapsed since power-line carrier was first introduced on a commercial basis, enormous advances have been made in the communication arts. In the somewhat specialized branch of power-line carrier, advances in technique and apparatus design have not been as highly publicized as those in some other branches of the art; nevertheless, they have kept pace with the field, with the result that power-line carrier is today one of the most useful and versatile tools available to the power-utility engineer. There are now over 1,300 terminals of power-line carrier in operation in the United States. These terminals provide channels for telephone circuits, pilot relaying, telemetering, load-control, supervisory, and other remote-control functions over transmission lines of all voltages, totaling over 40,000 channel-miles. The last several years have seen a rapid increase in the number of terminals and in channel-miles, and there is every indication that this rate of growth will continue to increase for some time. With very few exceptions, every new transmission line of any importance is now engineered to include power-line carrier for one or more functions. Many large integrated systems1 have already made such extensive use of carrier circuits that the problem of channel space and frequency assignment is rapidly becoming of major importance."
"Many factors must be considered in establishing safe ratings for overhead copper line conductors. Most important is the low-temperature annealing and loss of strength of the hard-drawn copper itself. Others are the effect of atmospheric conditions and line location relative to structures and topographical features tending to obstruct the wind. The actual construction details of the line, such as ground clearances, conductor splices, and connectors are pertinent, as are the policies of the personnel responsible for maintaining the line. This paper attempts to show how these factors can be evaluated to establish operating ratings, indicating how readily available data can be utilized, pointing out the lack of completely satisfactory data on other points. Procedure is stressed rather than results, as the influence of local conditions upon many of the factors precludes publication of ratings which are entirely safe to apply without careful investigation of the effect upon the particular copper conductors to which they are to be applied."
"The present war emergency requires that the maximum use be made of existing equipment and systems and that a minimum of critical material be used for new equipment. This publication and other guides and reports of this series have been prepared for the information of users during the war emergency. Upon termination of the war emergency, they will be reconsidered by the Standards committee and the committees which prepared them, and will be approved, revised for normal use, or rescinded. This procedure is being followed in preference to the preparation of special emergency Standards which might involve redesigning and drastic changes in manufacturing practices. These guides will accomplish the maximum conservation of critical materials, since they provide for the maximum use of existing equipment and systems, as well as new equipment, without changing the fundamental basis on which the present Standards have been prepared."
"THE use of rectifiers for furnishing power to d-c motors is becoming more common, particularly for variable-voltage drives. The theory applying to drives such as those incorporating the Ward Leonard system is quite inadequate for use with a rectifier-d-c motor drive. This paper is an introduction to the theory involved when operating a d-c shunt-wound motor from a rectifier. It is hoped that further thought and discussion of this new and vital subject will be stimulated."
"IN recent years the need for an improved adjustable-voltage d-c motor drive operated from an a-c supply has been continually increasing. Although the conventional drive of that type using a motor-generator set, and sometimes referred to as the Ward-Leonard system, adapts a d-c motor to an a-c line and provides adjustable armature voltage for the motor, it does not solve all of the problems involved. Thus, good speed regulation at all speeds, ability to deliver full torque at speeds as low as 1/50 of the rated speed of the motor, and automatically controlled acceleration and reversal are but a few vital problems which have been awaiting solution."
"RADIO noise is the result of interaction among four components of the airplane, namely, electrical equipment, the radio receiver, the electric wiring, and the antennas. These components are produced by three different groups of manufacturers who have until recently made no effort to co-ordinate with each other on the radio-noise problem, the solution of which requires that these components be considered conjointly and that each party accept his part of the total responsibility. Until recently, this joint responsibility was not recognized, but each party was held to a rigid set of specifications which restricted them all to a very narrow line of behavior and made them responsible only for the meeting of some specific requirements. As a consequence, the various manufacturers considered their obligation as fulfilled when these specific requirements were met, whether the radio system was noise-free or not."
"IN a previous paper1 the basic equations for the stator and rotor-winding currents of the capacitor motor were established in terms of certain coefficients which were functions of the fundamental constants of the machine. Application of these relations to establish the current loci was made to typical design data taken from earlier papers by Morrill,2 and Puchstein and Lloyd,3 based on a single value of the ratio of auxiliary-winding turns to main-winding turns. It is the purpose of this paper to extend the investigation to determine the effects upon current loci, and upon certain performance characteristics, of changing the turn ratio."
"THE purpose of this paper at the present time is to make available for the aircraft industry knowledge and information on the newest types of transformers specially developed to obtain extreme small size and the lightest possible weight. It is felt that the aircraft engineers should be given every opportunity to take advantage of the latest developments without the delay of extensive research. Every effort has been made to comply with their persistent demands for equipment as small and as light as possible."
"LOW-frequency carrier has been applied extensively to distribution circuits for remote control of street lights, window lights, off-peak water heaters, and similar services. Since carrier makes available a control system whose operating flexibility can be duplicated only by the use of a number of separate wire or pilot circuits, it permits saving large amounts of copper and other critical war materials. The necessity of reducing illumination or “blacking out” lighting circuits under war conditions has emphasized the value of the direct control provided by a carrier system. More recently the importance of carrier control for air-raid sirens and for signaling air-raid warnings to defense centers and civilian-defense personnel has been demonstrated."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–64 by S. Minneci and S. B. Farnham, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District technical meeting, Pittsfield, Mass., April 8–9, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, July section, volume 62, pages 488–93."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–65 by M. S. Oldacre, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District technical meeting, Pittsfield, Mass., April 8–9, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, July section, pages 477–80."
"Discussion of paper 43–73 by Myron Zucker, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Pittsfield, Mass., April 8–9, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, July section, pages 501–07."
"Discussion of paper 43–67 by Durval Muylaert, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Pittsfield, Mass., April 8–9, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, pages 804–18."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–70 by R. H. Kaufmann and G. Camilli, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District technical meeting, Pittsfield, Mass., April 8–9, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, July section, pages 467–72."
"Discussion of paper 43–71 by G. Camilli, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Pittsfield, Mass., April 8–9, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, July section, pages 483–7."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–121 by E. M. Callender and R. S. Phair, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 701–05."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–97 by J. B. Hodtum and J. B. Rice, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 556–62."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–98 by R. D. Evans and R. L. Witzke, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 690–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–99 by R. C. Robinson, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 620–4."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–76, by W. W. Kuyper, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 62, 1943, pages 827–34."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–89 by R. V. Shepherd and C. E. Kilbourne, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 684–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–100 by M. M. Liwschitz, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 664–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–82 by H. M. Hobart, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 549–52."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–83 by A. G. Conrad, S. T. Smith, and P. F. Ordung, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 522–5."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–102 by T. W. Schroeder, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 696–700."
"Discussion of paper 43–84 by the subcommittee on a-c automatic reclosing equipment of the AIEE committee on automatic stations, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 536–40."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–86 by Lee M. Moore and Bruce O. Watkins, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 531–5."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–103 by H. H. Fahnoe, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 630–5."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–85 by Leonard M. Olmsted, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 845–53."
"Discussion of paper 43–105 by the AIEE working group on towers, poles, and conductors of the transmission subcommittee of the AIEE committee on power transmission and distribution, presented at the Cleveland national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, September section, pages 588–90."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–77 by G. D. McCann, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 818–26."
"Discussion and closure of paper 43–104 by the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies subcommittee on wartime temperatures for cable circuits, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, September section, pages 606–10."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–81 by H. W. Bousman and R. L. Ten Broeck, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 541–5."
"Discussion of paper 43–108 by J. E. Ryan, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, September section, pages 579–81."
"Discussion of paper 43–78 by W. J. Clardy, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 517–21."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–80 by F. M. Rives, presented at the national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 835–44."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–91 by T. A. Cramer, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 545–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–110 by S. D. Moreton, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, September section, pages 581–5."
"Discussion and closure of paper 43–111 by the lightning arrester subcommittee of the AIEE committee on protective devices, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, September section, pages 586–8."
"Discussion of paper 43–112 by E. W. Kenefake, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 616–20."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–123 by J. E. Yarmack, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 655–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–124 by Edgar A. Harty, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 624–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–125 by F. E. Crever, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, September section, pages 603–06."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–126 by S. R. Bergman, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 613–16."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–114 by M. D. Ross and J. W. Batchelor, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 667–70."
"Discussion of paper 43–113 by H. L. Kellogg and C. C. Herskind, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, December section, pages 765–73."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–90 by E. H. Vedder and K. P. Puchlowski, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 863–70."
"Discussion of paper 43–116 by E. E. Moyer and H. L. Palmer, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 706–12."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–115 by L. W. Morton and D. I. Bohn, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 679–84."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–88 by M. B. Mallett, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–24, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 526–31."
"Discussion of paper 43–109 by the transformer subcommittee of the AIEE committee on electrical machinery, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 611–12."
"Discussion of paper 43–87 by the transformer subcommittee of the AIEE committee on electrical machinery, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 516–17."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–118 by M. A. Bostwick and E. L. Harder, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 645–50."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–117 by V. N. Stewart, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 553–5."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–79 by T. G. LeClair and E. L. Michelson, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, August section, pages 511–15."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–92 by L. J. Audlin and A. R. van C. Warrington, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, September section, pages 574–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–132 by C. W. Frick and S. W. Zimmerman, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, September section, pages 590–5."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–131 by F. J. Russell and A. P. Charbonneau, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, September section, pages 563–6."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–95 by T. B. Montgomery and T. H. Bloodworth, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, October section, pages 650–4."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–96 by R. A. Geiselman, C. C. Levy, and W. R. Harris, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Cleveland, Ohio, June 21–25, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 671–4."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–144 by K. P. Puchlowski, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 870–7."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–147 by E. M. Wood, H. W. Haberl, and F. A. A. Baily, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, December section, pages 774–9."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–142 by Lloyd F. Hunt and Fred H. Cole, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 720–4."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–143 by W. C. Morris, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 725–7."
"Discussion of paper 43–146 by O. Kiltie, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 899–902."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–149 by D. W. Exner, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, December section, pages 755–60."
"Discussion of paper 43–145 by H. H. Wermine, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 716–19."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–140 by Fred Foulon, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 877–91."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–139 by Noel E. Porter, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 728–30."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–134 by Charles F. Dalziel, Eric Ogden, and Curtis E. Abbott, and paper 43–135 by Charles F. Dalziel, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, December section, pages 745–50 and 739–44."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–152 by Waldo E. Enns, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, December section, pages 786–90."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–133 by P. L. Bellaschi, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, December section, pages 731–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 43–151 by John I. Holbeck and Martin J. Lantz, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, November section, pages 712–15."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 43–141 by J. L. Woodworth, presented at the AIEE national technical meeting, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 2–4, 1943, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1943, pages 903–15."
"This pamphlet contains complete multientry indexes covering the entire text content of AIEE regular technical publications, as follows: 1. Electrical Engineering, monthly, sent to all members. Contains two parts: I. General articles, news, and biographical items. II. Transactions section, containing technical-program papers presented at national and District technical meetings."
"Advertisement."
"THE impedance of a network is defined as the complex ratio of the alternating potential difference maintained across its terminals by an external source of electromotive force, to the resulting current flowing into these terminals. If the network contains active elements such as vacuum tubes, the resulting current (or potential difference if the input current is taken as the independent variable) may be due in part to the excitation of the active elements. The definition of impedance does not discriminate between the part of the current (or potential difference) due directly to the external source of electromotive force and the part due to the excitation of the active elements by the external source. Hence the impedance will in general depend upon the degree of activity of the active elements."
"This paper describes a simple graphical method for designing a two-terminal network, which will simulate a given line impedance to such a degree that return losses of the order of 25 db or better will be readily obtained. The method is particularly useful in those problems in which a reasonably accurate balancing network is adequate, but a high degree of precision is not required."
"THIS paper is one of a series by the Crystal Research Group on the manufacture of quartz oscillator plates. Certain sections of it which are not original, but rather adaptations of text book material to the present problem, are included for purposes of completeness and for the convenience of those readers whose knowledge of the crystallographic literature may be limited."
"QUARTZ is one of the commonest of crystalline minerals and occurs in many variations of size, color, purity, and structural perfection. It is used for such varied purposes as jewelry, fusing into heat and chemical resistant dishes, and for optical and piezoelectric units. However, the following discussion will be concerned mainly with such raw quartz as is commercially used in the manufacture of piezoelectric circuit elements. It might be added that the terminology used may be more in keeping with the language of the piezoelectric manufacturers than of the geologist. Further, description of many unusual types of defects, and variations of common types has been omitted. An attempt is here made to describe such defects as are of most interest in the piezoelectric art and in such a manner as to be most widely useful. Following is a description of raw quartz and its defects, the means of observing these defects, their appearance as recorded photographically, and a discussion of their effects on finished plates."
"THIS is the second article upon statistical mechanics which I have published this year in this Journal. The first, which appeared in the January (1943) issue, was devoted to the oldest form of the theory, which is variously known as the old, the classical, or the Boltzmann statistics. The word “ statistics,” I repeat from the former article, is a synonym for statistical mechanics, objectionable but (because of the length of the alternative) hardly to be avoided. The “ new statistics,” frequently divided into “ the Bose-Einstein statistics” and “ the Fermi-Dirac statistics,” emerged in the middle twenties and ever since it has been gradually pushing its ancestor aside. In this article I propose to expound the new statistics, laying especial emphasis on the theory of monatomic gases, to which the former article was strictly limited."
"This new addition to a well-known series has been awaited with much interest by all those acquainted with Dr. Schelkunoff's contributions to propagation theory, and it will be found that their expectations have been entirely fulfilled. This monumental piece of work is equally remarkable for the originality and consistency of its approach as for the wealth of information contained in its five hundred densely packed pages."
"Paracon — A New Polyester Rubber.1 B. S. Biggs and C. S. Fuller. Paracons are high molecular weight linear polyesters which are soft enough to be rubbery and are capable of undergoing a vulcanization reaction. They are prepared by the condensation of dibasic acids with glycols or by the self condensation of hydroxy acids, and the name is intended to signify “ condensation rubber.” Paracon looks and feels like rubber, and in comparison with other rubbers it has some distinct advantages and some definite limitations. Its outstanding properties are oil resistance, high heat and light resistance, lack of odor and fast curing cycle. Tensile strength ranges from 1500 to 3000 pounds per square inch with elongations of 400 to 600 per cent."
"Elizabeth J. Armstrong, M.A. in Geology, Bryn Mawr College, 1934; Ph.D., 1939. Lecturer in Geology, Barnard College, 1938–41; Research Assistant, Columbia University, 1941–42; National Research Council Fellow, 1942–13; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1943–. Miss Armstrong has been working chiefly on problems related to the orientation of piezoelectric crystal plates."
"BECAUSE of the increasing interest in piezoelectric materials in many branches of science an exhaustive study of the minerals was undertaken with the object of finding all the materials that could possibly be of use for piezo-electric elements. Much help was derived from existing data.1 Considerations of symmetry show us that for a crystal to be piezo-electrically active it must belong to a crystal class that has no center of symmetry (the Pentagonalicositetredral class of the cubic system, however, although it has no center of symmetry cannot be piezo active).2 This makes twenty classes of possible piezo activity and twelve classes that could not possibly be active. About 90% of the crystals found in nature fall in those classes having centers of symmetry."
"In work relating to the motion of electrons and other particles it is fairly common to assume that the particles obey the laws of Newtonian dynamics. That is, briefly, it is assumed that the rectangular coordinates (x, y, z) of the particle under consideration satisfy the differential equations"
"THIS paper is the first one of a series of papers dealig with quartz crystals, their applications in oscillators, filters, and transducers, and the methods of producing them from the natural crystal. This series was prepared first to make available to the Western Electric Co. and other manufacturers of quartz crystals some of the specialized knowledge on these subjects that has been acquired at the Bell Telephone Laboratories. Sufficient interest has been expressed in this series to make it desirable to publish them in serial form."
"The chemist describes quartz as silicon dioxide, SiO2, crystallized in hard, brittle, glass-like, six sided prisms, often with pyramidal terminations; melting point 1750° Centigrade, density 2.65, hardness on Moh's scale 7. It transforms from alpha to beta quartz at 573°C under atmospheric pressure. Under stress it transforms at lower temperatures. Alpha quartz is insoluble in ordinary acids but soluble in hydrofluoric acid; and in hot alkalis."
"INCREASED familiarity derived in handling Maxwell's equations, especially in connection with problems arising at very high frequencies, has resulted in a variety of forms for expressing certain laws and behavior. Especially, work by Schelkunoff in extending the impedance concept1 shows that impedance can be quite as general and exact a means for expressing electromagnetic relations as are current, voltage, electric and magnetic fields, and vector and scalar potentials."
"Electronics in Telephony.1 Frank A. Cowan. The historical development of the use of electronic devices by the telephone system is reviewed, showing how long distance telephony has grown with the increased use of, and improvements in, electronics. The number of telephone repeaters has grown from 16 in 1908 to 123,000 in 1942 and carrier circuit mileage has grown from 2,000 in 1920 to 2,300,000 in 1942, while copper usage per circuit mile has decreased from 400 pounds in 1910 to less than 70 in 1942."
"Walter L. Bond, B.S. in Physics, Washington State College, 1927; M.S. 1928. Member of Technical Staff, Bell Telephone Laboratories 1928–. Studied at Columbia University, New York University, and Stevens Institute. Engaged primarily in studies of the physical properties of crystals."
"THE use of crystals as oscillating elements and as light valves in electric circuits has given the mathematics of crystalline media an engineering importance. Soon after the first simple quartz oscillators were made it was noticed that some ways of cutting the block from the natural crystal gave lower temperature coefficients of frequency than did other ways. This led to studies of the change of elastic modulii with direction and temperature and finally to the discovery that there are directions in quartz for which the shear modulus does not change with temperature."
"THE seriousness of the present tin scarcity has stimulated large consumers of this vital metal to develop drastic conservation measures in order to extend the available supplies to cover the emergency period. By devising new soldering methods and alloys the Bell System has contributed a substantial share in the tin conservation effort. Fortunately, the changes, as far as can now be determined, have not introduced weakness into the soldered joints. Some of the new procedures now used were already in the process of development at the onset of the emergency, while others were devised under its stress. In some instances, the newly developed solders were found to be more difficult to use than the alloys previously available, and would not have been introduced under normal conditions. One major change made that previously had been under consideration will result in large tin savings. Unless service difficulties are encountered, this modification gives promise to remain after the emergency has passed. The change involves a reduction in the amount of solder placed on a wiped joint between the cable sheath and the sleeve. Instead of the customary full size wiped joint a wipe of fillet proportions is formed. Through this change, a solder saving of over 60% per joint can be realized."
"A MATHEMATICAL theory, suitable for appraising and controlling directive properties of linear antenna arrays, can be based upon a simple modification of the usual expression for the radiation intensity of a system of radiating sources. The first step in this modification is closely analogous to the passage from the representation of instantaneous values of harmonically varying quantities by real numbers to a symbolic representation of these quantities by complex numbers. The second step consists in a substitution which identifies the radiation intensity with the norm1 of a polynomial in a complex variable. The complex variable itself represents a typical direction in space. This mathematical device permits tapping the resources of algebra and leads to a pictorial representation of the radiation intensity."
"ONE of the most elusive and perplexing, hazy and confusing of the parts of theoretical physics is that which bears the name of “statistical mechanics”.∗ On the principle that a tree is to be judged by its fruits, this must be ranked as high as the tree which bore the golden apples of the Hesperides; for among its fruits are the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution-law, the black-body radiation law, the value of the chemical constant, the Fermi distribution-law for the electrons in metals, the alternating intensities in band-spectra — and indeed the tree might lay a valid claim to the whole of quantum-theory. The singular thing is that such wonderful fruits should have grown from, or should have been grafted upon, so badly-rooted a tree. To change the metaphor, one frequently feels that the superstructure is sustaining the foundations, and the premises are flowing from the consequences, rather than the other way about. Perhaps anyone who feels this way should be disqualified from writing about the subject; but on the present occasion, the attempt is going to be made."
"Poles and Pole Treatment.1 Reginald H. Colley. Studies made of pole use and drainage on the southern pine forest have brought out that if the demand for poles 35-feet and longer were to continue at the present rate, a situation would soon develop in which these poles would be at a premium. It would seem wise to use as many circumference classes as possible and to broaden the use of poles of other species whenever it is practicable to do so. Successful full length treatment of red pine, lodgepole pine, western cedar and Douglas fir poles will help to broaden this use."
"Walter L. Bond, B.S. in Physics, Washington State College, 1927; M.S. 1928. Member of Technical Staff, Bell Telephone Laboratories 1928–. Studied at Columbia University, New York University, and Stevens Institute. Engaged primarily in studies of the physical properties of crystals.1"
"An American bomber is zooming its way to enemy territory on an important mission of destruction. It reaches the outskirts of its destination, loses altitude, the bomb-bay doors are opened. The bombardier sights his target, the bombs are released. The photographer aims his motion picture camera as the bombs fall and presses the release lever—it starts—groans and stops—dead. The bomber returns to base with no photographic record to show whether a “hit” or a “miss” was made. Why did the camera fail? Was the diameter of the sprockets too great or too small? Was the film perforated under- or over-pitch for the sprockets? Was the film core binding on the spindle because it was too wide? Was the failure caused by non-interchangeability of parts and materials?"
"During processing, if photographic materials are insufficiently fixed and washed, the silver thiosulfates and sodium thiosulfate retained may result in staining of the non-image areas and fading of the image during subsequent storage. In the case of films and plates the thiosulfates may be removed completely if a judicious choice of hardening and fixing baths is made and if the most effective washing technique is employed but, with prints, traces of hypo are invariably retained which can be removed by subsequent treatment in a peroxide-ammonia solution. — Several factors contribute to the retention of sodium and silver thiosulfates and the extent of this retention was measured by careful determination of the residual thiosulfate and silver in the processed material. The hardening agent, potassium alum, used in hardening baths and fixing baths caused the greatest retention while chrome alum had little effect. The accumulation of silver during exhaustion of the fixing bath resulted in retention of silver thiosulfates. — The removal of sodium and silver thiosulfates was aided by (1) use of a second fixing bath to remove silver and (if non-hardening) to assist removal of hypo, (2) an increase in the pH of the fixing bath preferably above the isoelectric point of gelatin, (3) hardening prior to fixation as compared to hardening during or after fixation, (4) raising the temperature of the wash water, (5) increasing the pH of the wash water or by the use of a dilute ammonia solution near the end of the washing process. These treatments were less effective with photographic papers because of the high retention of thiosulfates by the paper base and the baryta coating. Processing recommendations to insure permanency during (a) archival and (b) normal periods of storage are given."
"In the study of the effects of high-temperature arcs on 35-mm motion picture projection, it was noticed that the sharpness of the image on the screen was materially affected by changes in the heat intensity. This indicated that film does not always lie in a flat plane in a projector gate but takes different positions at different temperatures. In order to study this phenomenon more carefully, a portion of the projector gate was cut away permitting high-speed Ciné Kodak pictures {about 1500 frames/second) to be taken of the film as it passed by the aperture of a projector. The pictures show that most films enter the gate in a state of slight positive curl (curl toward the emulsion) and then change to a state of negative curl during the instant they remain exposed to the heat of the arc. This change in curl is due to the expansion of the emulsion layer by the heat. This effect is especially pronounced with the new high-intensity arcs. — The effect on the quality of the screen image of this change in curl of the film in the gate was studied by means of high-speed Ciné Kodak analysis of the screen image. The pictures show that at high heat intensities and with the projector focused to give the sharpest image on the screen, the images are in sharp focus for only a portion of their duration on the screen. Each screen image comes into view out of focus and gradually becomes sharper until just before the pull-down when it reaches its maximum sharpness. Such pictures are of good screen quality if the projector is focused carefully. — Under certain conditions, when the film is in a very moist state and when lamps of the highest heat intensity are used, the screen images may not all be sharp. Occasionally a few frames may be entirely out of focus. The high-speed analysis of the action of the film in the gate shows that these out-of-focus frames behave in an abnormal manner. In these frames the normal change in curl from positive to negative in the gate is interrupted by a reversal back to positive curl. Thus at the end of the pull-down cycle these frames lie in a plane slightly toward the lens of the projector, whereas all of the normal frames lie in a plane slightly toward the lamp from the plane of the gate. The distance between these two planes is greater than the depth of focus of the lens and thus these abnormal frames appear out of focus. It is believed that this sudden reversal to positive curl is due to a contraction of the gelatin due to loss of moisture. — We recommend that the heat intensity at the aperture, as measured by a thermocouple which we have described, should not exceed 1250°F and that films should be dried thoroughly."
"The five most generally recognized types of film distortion are discussed. These consist of curl, spokiness, embossing, flute or long edges, and buckle or short edges. — Curl has come to be an accepted fact and is ordinarily without importance in projection except when it becomes excessive. — Spokiness, sometimes called square rolls or hexagonal rolls, is a phenomenon observed when film with a high degree of curl is wound with insufficient tension to keep the roll perfectly round. Poor screen quality in the case of 16-mm films has sometimes been associated with this defect. — Embossing is due to differential shrinkage or hardening of the emulsion caused by local absorption of heat in the dense portion of the picture. Careful tests have failed to show any effect upon the screen such as in-and-out of focus due to image embossing. Measurements of the magnitudes of the distortions show that these are ordinarily much less than the depth of focus of the lens. — Flute, or long edges, is more often seen with safety film than with nitrate film. It is generally caused by a stretching of the edges by recessed rolls, by shrinking the center of the film with high-temperature arcs on projection, or by exposing the roll to excessively high humidities, which causes swelling at the edges. Laboratory tests as well as field experience indicate that fluted edges very rarely cause distortion of the images on the screen. — Buckle, or short edges, is believed to be the most serious type of film distortion. It is caused by greater loss of moisture or solvent from the edges of the film than from the center. This leaves a fullness of the center resulting in an “oil-can” effect when film passes through the projector, thus producing pictures that go in-and-out of focus on the screen. — Buckle trouble may result from storing rolls of film in packages that are easily permeable to moisture vapor but it may be avoided by the use of impermeable packaging materials."
"Characteristics of the high-intensity arc as applied to the projection of 16-mm film are described. Carbon trim, quality of light, magnification, optical speed, power of the projection lamp, and the intensity and distribution of the screen light are also discussed."
"Laboratory practice for direct 16-mm production differs somewhat from 35-mm methods. Thirty-five-mm laboratory practice is confined largely to negative-positive, and 35-mm color is done mostly by special service laboratories and not by the studio or release-print laboratories. — Direct 16-mm production calls for the reversal type of processing, the negative-positive method, and color developing. Some producers own laboratories for doing the first two, but color is processed by the manufacturer. However, independent laboratories are printing color. This paper describes how some of these processes are used in direct 16-mm production, especially when the methods differ from conventional 35-mm practices."
"Prepared by Members of the U. S. Army Signal Corps, Army Service Forces, and Presented at the Spring Meeting of the Society, at the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York, N. Y., May 6, 1943"
"Through the Army Pictorial Service the Signal Corps serves as teacher, historian, and ambassador for the United States Army. Day by day demands for motion pictures of the combat zones, training films, film-strips, English versions of United Nations training films, special films for morale purposes are growing by leaps and bounds."
"There are a number of purely psychological factors involved in making all types of motion pictures. Several of these, if properly recognized and utilized, prove to be powerful and useful tools in making training films. Five of the most important of these factors will be briefly discussed in this paper."
"In the Army, in the production of training films, we have a special phenomenon, and that is the making of motion pictures without artistic temperament. I think it is something new under the sun."
"The subject of this paper concerns a little known but rapidly expanding activity of the Signal Corps Photographic Center—the Service Films Division. The name Service Films, derived from the functional nature of the special films produced, best describes the type of motion pictures that are designed to provide a special service to the Army at large."
"Animation is used in military training films when live-action photography is impracticable or impossible. Disturbing or distracting elements encountered in live action are eliminated, resulting in a clear, vivid portrayal unhampered by non-essential details."
"Sound-recording operations of the Signal Corps Photographic Center are concerned principally with the production of army training films and special service films. Sound is used in training films very much the same as in commercial teaching films. Depending upon the type of subject and its treatment, some pictures are photographed silent, then scored with narration and essential effects; others are taken in live sound and augmented with effects and library music in the re-recording process."
"At the outset of the war our photographic facilities and equipment were called upon to fulfill the requirements of an all-out effort. It was necessary to get good effective training films into the training camps as soon as possible and it has only been through the steady and untiring efforts of all concerned that we have, in a relatively short time, been able to build up staff and equipment into a large working unit capable of turning out training films in quantity and of high quality. During the past year many problems have been encountered and investigated relative to the use of camera equipment for photographic training pictures."
"The Western Union Engineering Laboratories have just completed installation of five multiple-film scene selectors in The Pentagon, Washington, D. C. These units are used by the Army Pictorial Service in conjunction with the editing of motion picture films."
"It is certainly calling attention to the obvious to state that all the effort in planning and producing training films would be wasted without an efficient system of distribution that would put the films at the right places and at the right times for effective use. With millions of men in our Army scattered all over the continental United States and in many foreign theaters, efficient film distribution assumes the proportions of a tremendous problem in administration and supply."
"The utilization of films in the military training of our Army must be considered in the light of the tremendous job they have to do. Our films have to teach an Army to win a world; our films are for a student body of two million, five million, seven million, and more soldiers; our films are for a military training program in the greatest educational job we have ever undertaken-the establishment of a University of the American Army. Here is visual education on a scale that staggers the imagination of the most ardent instructional film enthusiast of prewar days."
"Proper service and maintenance of theater reproducing equipment has been an important consideration in bringing the art to its present high state of development. Improved service instruments and techniques have been necessary to keep pace with the rapid improvements made during the past decade and will continue to be important factors in the post-war period. The instrument described here is a new departure in the field of service as applied to theater equipment."
"Procedures and equipment used to edit 16-mm industrial and educational motion pictures are described. Various types of effects are explained and examples given of some use to eliminate excessive film footage."
"A series of experiments involving the control of reverberation and spectrum as applied to both music and speech, has brought to a conclusion the research project directed toward the complete control of the auditory component of legitimate or operatic production."
"Some of the implications of the control of the auditory components of a “show” are noted, especially its application to the. exhibition of motion pictures."
"This paper reports recent laboratory work which has resulted in marked improvements over previous 16-mm reduction print quality. Improvements in image quality accrue from exposure of the print with ultraviolet light and from the use of reflection reducing coatings on the lens surfaces, while speed variations are reduced by increasing printer speed up to as much as twice normal film speed. These improvements involve only relatively simple changes in commercial reduction printers."
"In the following paper, the General Electric television motion picture film projector is described by its designer. Certain of the design objectives and some of the special problems involved are discussed. Among these problems is the projection of standard motion picture film at thirty television frames per second without change in sound quality. The theory and construction of the intermittent movement are given and views are shown of the projection equipment as installed in the General Electric Television Station WRGB"
"Hollywood sound engineers are currently devoting the major part of their attention toward maintaining the present quality of sound. Research and development of new equipment and methods have been sharply curtailed in some studios and stopped in others for the duration. However, certain improvement programs are being carried forward where equipment had been ordered before the war, and where delivery has been completed."
"Tests with intermittent sprockets of different diameters have shown that the maximum projections which can be attained depends greatly on a diameter within the range of 0.943 inch to 0.965 inch diameters, about a 2½ per cent range. The sprocket pitch for best wear is greater than the apparent match between static perforation measurements and sprocket dimensions. This is in accord with the view that the elastic characteristics of the base are important at this point in the projection cycle. Tests with different pressures on the film gate show that this setting is an important factor affecting wear at the intermittent sprocket. The way by which perforations tear is different under the following two conditions: (a) film pitch less than best match for sprocket pitch, and (b) film pitch greater than best match for sprocket pitch."
"A brief description of the history and nature of ammonium thiosulfate is given. Several practical formulas employing this agent are presented and their advantages discussed. Some of the differences in characteristics between the ammonium thiosulfate and sodium thiosulfate fixing baths are pointed out. — An explanation is offered to account for the apparent discrepancies in the effects of concentration on clearing time reported by previous investigators. The speed of fixation of ammonium thiosulfate is shown to be greater than sodium or lithium thiosulfates and greater than mixtures of ammonium chloride and sodium thiosulfate."
"In 1937 the Army Air Forces started its training film program. Since that time millions of feet of film have passed through hundreds of projectors and have been seen by hundreds of thousands of Air Force soldiers from the lowest yard bird to the brassiest brass hat."
"This paper outlines a few short cuts in the use of 16-mm film for specialized film production with a minimum of personnel. Certain features of the setup have reduced man-hours to a minimum and have made a compact, yet thoroughly efficient, unit for the production of secret and timely subjects."
"I am delighted to be able to participate in the annual get-together meeting of such able men who constitute the Society of Motion Picture Engineers. You, gentlemen, are a most vital part of a great industry, an industry that has made tremendous progress over a period of years. You, who have contributed so much to the forward movement of the motion picture industry, are to be congratulated not only for your ability but for your complete determination to move forward and better the all-round development of the motion picture."
"An increase in the use of direct 16-mm production makes it desirable that certain standards be set up in order that all producers be able to follow definite procedures. If such standards can be agreed upon it will make it much easier for the producer to do his work and train his help. It will allow the equipment manufacturer to produce better machines to handle 16-mm. It will allow the laboratories to give better prints with a minimum of delay and a minimum of error. The standards that are suggested should be studied closely by those interested and suggestions made."
"The resistance of glass to thermal shock may be increased considerably by tempering which is the controlled introduction of strain. Tempering and annealing represent opposite extremes in heat treatment. Annealing removes strain by slow cooling while tempering introduces strain by rapid cooling. Class fractures originate in regions of tension. When hot glass is subjected to a cold medium, a thermal gradient is introduced and the resulting strain distribution places the surface in a state of tension. If the tension exceeds the tensile strength of the glass a fracture will occur. Condenser lenses of projection machines are often subjected to thermal shock of this type. Tempering the glass places the surfaces under compression. A much greater thermal shock may then be applied without causing fracture, because sufficient stress must be introduced to completely neutralize the compression before the surface can go into tension and fail."
"There will be no special or prearranged ladies entertainment program during the five-day 1943 Fall Conference. However, a reception parlor will be available in the Hotel where the ladies may meet daily. The ladies are cordially invited to attend the functions of the Conference."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic or microfilm copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y., at prevailing rates."
"The general means heretofore employed to reduce the commutator noises emitted by arc lamps operated from direct current generator sets is outlined, and the deficiencies of such equipment are noted. The design of an electrical filler unit, which is extremely compact as compared to previously employed equipment and which is capable of handling the full load output of studio stage-lighting generators, is described. This filter completely suppresses all arc-lamp noises resulting from generator commutator ripple, may be permanently associated with any studio generator set, eliminates the need for repeated installations of large numbers of choke coils on the set, and requires no servicing. The unit is capable of withstanding current overloads in excess of 100 per cent indefinitely."
"In September, 1939, J. A. Maurer reported in the Journal on “The Present Technical Status of 16-Mm Sound-Film” and in November, 1940, on “Commercial Motion Picture Production with 16-Mm Equipment.” The first paper compared the quality of direct 16-mm sound with that of reduction prints from 35-mm negatives; the second compared the graininess of prints by the reversal (intermediate fine-grain duplicate negative) fine-grain print method with reduction prints from 35-mm original negatives. The comparison appeared so favorable to direct 16-mm that the next step was obvious: to put the procedures into commercial use. — Early experience with Dupont fine-grain materials in 1930 and 1931 left behind an elementary yet important consideration: if the expected improvements from the use of fine-grain materials and methods were to materialize, something more than the mere use of fine-grain materials was required. Muck in developer, fixer, and wash water must be reduced; films must be properly dried. Only with these elementary conditions satisfied could the quality be significantly improved. — Dupont was the first manufacturer to offer fine-grain release print film to the 16-mm market; the experience with Dupont 605 was so satisfactory commercially that all ordinary positive materials were dropped entirely. Eastman 5203 was found to be the best duplicate negative material available; all other materials were dropped. For original negatives in 16-mm direct sound recording, Agfa 250, a high-resolving-power yellow-dye film, was the first satisfactory material on the market and remained without competitors for several years. With such excellent materials under accurate control, decidedly improved films were bound to result. — It is interesting to note that these present-day materials have a resolving power of the order of 100 lines per mm; this is of the same general order as that of the materials that Dupont produced experimentally in 1931. While resolving power of this order is considered sufficient for better-grade present-day projectors, there is real need for pushing the quality standard still farther upward to 150 lines per mm. The techniques for the manufacture of such materials are fairly well known today; the big need is for Government contracts to call for such high-grade materials and for Government inspectors rigidly to reject inferior materials such as ordinary positive prints. — The selection of the most suitable materials and the manner of determining the operating conditions for the machinery selected are described."
"The paper discusses production of 16-mm “expository” films—those which explain or instruct. The most important factor involved is the advance planning of an adequate presentation of the subject matter. A direct, simple method of production planning has been evolved and is described, pointing out pitfalls which the beginner should avoid. A shooting-script form, which serves the producer as a combined scenario, shooting script, and editing reference, is described and illustrated. Experience indicates that the teacher or expert who is to guide the production of a training film should give his particular attention to building up a concept; avoiding overextended commentation; having the visual demonstration coincide with the soundtrack explanation; showing no action that is unexplained, or no explanation unaccompanied by action; timing the delivery of the commentation; using the full power of the camera; and to treating the audience as an individual novice about to receive instructions through motion pictures."
"The paper discusses a mechanical electronic device which continuously measures the width of film to an accuracy of 0.002 mm. The basic circuit is quartz oscillator having a L.C. circuit which is slightly detuned from the resonant frequency. The percentage detuning gives a measure of the film width. Curve shows that for a film variation of 0.250 mm the relationship between film width and measurable current is linear. An inexpensive 0–1 milliammeter can be used without sacrificing accuracy."
"A chemical and a mechanical method of conserving photographic chemicals in the processing laboratory are described."
"Results of research on the reproduction of maps in 35-mm color and black-and-white film are described. This research involved a thorough study of the effect of material, equipment, and processing on resolution. Observations of these effects have been carefully studied and the results are presented with a discussion of some of the factors influencing them. — The conclusions drawn from this research are: (1) The reproduction of colored maps in color on 35-mm film is impossible because of the low resolving power of present color emulsions. (2) Reproduction of colored maps in monochrome on 35-mm is not satisfactory because of grain clumping in magnification above 20x. (3) The resolution of an image is a composite function depending on the degree of correction in the optical system producing it, the resolving power of the material reproducing it, and the processing it undergoes."
"Under Conservation Order M-28, which was amended as of September 7, 1943, the use of additional Freon (F-12) has been prohibited in comfort cooling installations and its use greatly curtailed in all but essential food and essential industrial processes. This had led to the obvious conclusion that a less critical substitute be used, which, for practical reasons, means methyl chloride. — This article emphasizes the best experience of the industry to date in the hazards involved when methyl chloride is used as the refrigerant. — The urge for substitution of Freon-12 will become increasingly greater because the prospects for a sufficient production of F-12 is not in sight for the next cooling season, according to the best authorities on the subject. The authors hope that the publicity relative to the hazards involved when methyl chloride is used will be useful and that the Precautions and limitations, as outlined in the ASA safety code for refrigeration, as well as any municipal code or ordinance, are followed."
"The conservation of materials is one of the major objectives of all industry in this war. Particularly is this true in the motion picture industry, where the enormous requirements of the armed forces added to the essential civilian demand are creating an unprecedented consumption of photographic film. A record of the steps being taken by the various studios to insure the conservation of raw film stock during sound takes is thus of particular interest at this time."
"To date our sound breakdown system involves utilizing all non-print takes and short ends salvaged from Daily production, dubbing, music and sound-effects recording. The non-print takes are segregated as to companies and held pending verification of production release from the Exchange Office. Inasmuch as the opposite edge is not exposed during recording, this film is made available for print stock. The print takes are then assembled and sent to the laboratory for Daily processing."
"Previous to 1937 it was customary to record full-length reels of dubbing on only one side of the film. In 1937 the procedure of using both sides of the sound negative was adopted. This two-sided recording is done only if the previous take on one side of the reel is a non-print take. Unless the recordist gets an immediate print order on a take he runs the recorder for an additional 25 feet at the end of the take. The short end is saved and the 25 ft allowance is enough to rethread the machine and get up to speed. The first take is not spoiled by this process and may be used up until the time the standard leaders are cut on. This practice has resulted in no difficulties in the studio or at the laboratory. The saving for one year's production is approximately 150,000 feet."
"RKO Studios have been using the preselection or breakdown system to conserve film and reduce operating costs since its first use in Hollywood. This general procedure has been of considerable saving to the studio."
"Preselection as a means of film conservation, although important in itself, can not be discussed without going into the broader aspects of the general economy of operation. Even where the saving of film is of prime importance, as it is at the present time, the details of operation are bound to be modified by other existing circumstances."
"This paper describes our film conservation methods as applied to sound-film only. We use one edge of the 35-mm film for the original track, and save all undeveloped takes until the picture is released. The opposite edge of this film is then used for other sound negatives or prints as required."
"Conservation of sound-track film at Samuel Goldwyn Studios operates as follows: Each roll of film as it is threaded on the recording machine is given a magazine card. On this card appears the production number, date, machine number, emulsion, magazine number or numbers, and the operator's name. This card has three columns in which are written the track number, the accumulated footage, and the take footage. Enough room is also provided for remarks pertaining to this particular roll of film—such as missed punches and slates or special laboratory handling. Special laboratory handling may include such items as two or more prints on a certain track, a change in gamma of either negative or print, or a develop-only order."
"About 1933, it was decided in the Sound Department of Walt Disney Studios that some procedure should be established whereby only “selected” takes would be sent to the laboratory for processing. With this in mind, the following system was adopted."
"In conservation of sound-track negative raw stock at Warner Bros. identification of the start of each take is made by the recording machine operator, who nicks the edge of the negative with a special punch. This involves opening the door of the recording machine, but in RCA equipment only one foot of film is fogged, resulting in a minimum of waste. Scene and take numbers are marked on the film with soft lead pencil, these marks being plainly visible to the breakdown operator, who passes the film through his gloved hand and stops at each nick. A recording card accompanies each roll that passes through the recording machine, and on this card the recorder marks whether the scenes are non-print, hold or print. All non-print are marked with an “X,” while hold or print takes are marked with the letter “O,” followed either by the words “print,” or “hold.”"
"This presentation is a discussion of the complete variable-density recording system used by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios. — The channel is the result of several years of development and engineering to achieve a high standard of quality and signal-to-noise ratio. The complete system is described, beginning with the microphone, limiter amplifier, R.M.A. pre- and post-equalization, improved coils with special shielding, cylinder lens, noise reduction, improved type headset monitor, fine-grain film sensitometry, improved super-portable equipment, new recording machines and re-recording machines, and disk recording apparatus. Engineering specifications and analysis of the design considerations and the functional aspects of the apparatus are given."
"A discussion of the importance and methods of maintaining high standards of projection during war time, with particular reference to the procedures followed in Loew's theaters to enlist the assistance of the theater personnel."
"The technical excellence of a television program may frequently depend upon the characteristics of the view-finder used in the television camera. Conditions peculiar to television make it desirable that television camera view-finders be of the focusing type. The requirements of an ideal view-finder of this type are discussed. During the past ten years a number of view-finder arrangements have been investigated in connection with the development of television cameras. Several of these are described and their relative merits indicated."
"A combined report of the Sub-Committees on Projection Practice, on Civilian Defense in Theaters, and on Screen Brightness. Of especial importance is the “Report and Recommendations on Proposed Mechanical Methods for Film Conservation,” of the Projection Practice Sub-Committee, and which has already had wide distribution throughout the motion picture industry. — The Sub-Committee on Civilian Defense presents a program of defense mesaures to be studied with a view of making suitable recommendations for defense to the industry."
"The formation of excessive fog by a developer containing copper or sulfide is well known. However, no quantitative method for determining the concentration of either copper or sulfide in a developer appears to have been published. In this paper, polarographic methods of analysis for these substances are given together with photographic determinations of the effect of concentration on fog, thus demonstrating that the analyses are capable of determining the minimum amount of copper or sulfide required to cause fog under the conditions used. — The fogging action of a developer which has accumulated sulfide by bacterial action is shown to be the same as that produced by a fresh developer containing the equivalent quantity of sodium sulfide."
"Development of uniformly flashed motion picture film has been carried out in developers of varying composition and the amount of iodide, which remains in the developer, determined by analysis. The amount of iodide has been found to depend on the following factors: (1) Developed density. Increased density gives increased iodide. (2) Footage of film. Increased footage for a given volume of developer gives increased iodide. (3) Time of development. Increased development time for the same density gives increased iodide, (4) Strength of developer. An increase in the activity of the developer gives increased iodide. (5) Distribution of the image. If partly unexposed film was run through the developer the amount of iodide decreased as the proportion of unexposed film increases."
"Non-uniformity of development is aggravated by short developing times and particularly at gammas far below gamma infinity. This non-uniformity can be partially overcome by agitation of the developer and a number of essentially different methods of developer agitation of interest, in motion picture work have been studied experimentally. The case of continuous agitation was studied by flowing the developer through a conduit in which the film was located. It was found that good uniformity is attainable not merely when turbulent flow is established but only when the intensity of turbulence is sufficiently great to reduce and make uniform the thickness of the quiescent liquid layer at the film surface. — When agitation is of the intermittent type such as supplied by some of the present-day submerged jet systems or the cascade method, increased agitation is attainable usually by increased frequency of jet application rather than by greater liquid flow. Little improvement can be obtained by moderate increases in the film running speed or the rate of general circulation of developer in most of the present-day machine tanks. The agitation intensity could be increased much beyond the levels of present-day practice but, except for a slight reduction in fog in certain cases, the effect of increased agitation on quality would not be significant. — Methods of agitation are discussed in relation to the problems of application to machine design."
"Photographs and dimensions are given for a number of types of sound-tracks, some of which are in general use and some being experimental types."
"The Purpose of Army Air Forces Combat Camera Units is to supply tactical and operational information in the form of motion picture reports from the combat zones. This is a specialized activity and requires specialized training and organization. — The paper describes the course of training for the units and some of the problems encountered in the field."
"Naval training films are based upon a complete and continuous integration of requirements, planning, production, and utilization. This is in order to provide maximum effectiveness for audio-visual aids. The conditions of final utilization tend to govern the treatment, the reducing or eliminating the need for any superfluous content."
"The organization of the Training Film Branch and the scope of its job are indicated. Problems encountered in the production of the Navy's training films are considered. Special emphasis is given to research, pre-planning of production and script writing. The difficulties that result from undertaking an extensive training-film production program under wartime conditions are presented briefly."
"Several years ago J. A. Maurer reported upon the graininess of direct 16-mm prints in comparison with reduction prints from 35-mm negatives. Somewhat earlier he reported upon the status of direct 16-mm sound in comparison with sound optically reduced from 35-mm to 16-mm. The comparisons appeared so favorable to 16-mm that the next step was to put the procedures into commercial use. This paper describes the methods and the machinery used for the purpose. — It was necessary to standardize laboratory and film-handling; all picture printers are of the slow-speed step-contact type, all use the same type of lamp as a light-source. All sound printers are of the optical type; all use the same type of lamp and the same type of ammeter for control. No contact sound printing whatever is used, due to the very serious losses that result from such printing. — It was found that one—and only one—raw-film material should be used for each operation—the material with the best resolving power. Fortunately the material with the best resolving power has the other necessary desirable photographic characteristics. Eastman 5203 was selected as the duplicate negative material. Dupont 605 was chosen for the release print raw stock; Agfa 250 for the original sound negative material. Kodachrome was found to be the best available material for original 16-mm films, not only for color duplicates but also for black-and-white fine-grain release prints as well. — It was necessary also to standardize inspection equipment, especially sound equipment. A film-phonograph of excellent film motion with a 0.4-mil slit image, a noise-free amplifier, and a two-way loud speaker system of the horn and direct-radiator type, with a standard 400-cycle cross-over network, is used for the inspection of 16-mm sound negatives and sound prints that are used for further duplicating (for example, prints used for Kodachrome duplicating). The overall electrical characteristic of the system is similar to that of metal diaphragm systems specified in the “Revised Standard Electrical Characteristics for Two-Way Reproducing Systems in Theaters” issued in 1938 by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences. For combined print inspection, Bell & Howell utility projectors adapted to connect into the system used for the film-phonograph were found the best commercial compromise. — Uniformity of product is readily obtained; permanent records of each piece of film processed are sufficiently complete to permit the duplication of results long after the details of a particular job are forgotten. With but one variable in each significant step of the process, errors in processing are quickly traced and corrected. Maximum uniformity is achieved simultaneously with maximum output; the methods described are well suited to mass production."
"The final phase of motion picture production is in the theater, and the success of this phase depends upon the technique of projection and the condition of the projection equipment. — The paper discusses in considerable detail the importance of proper maintenance, the types of light-sources, and other factors of importance to good projection."
"The proper distribution and application of 16-mm motion pictures require painstaking planning and continued follow-through. With this in mind, the methods of distribution are considered with respect to the three major fields of business employing 16-mm pictures, viz., (1) public education; (2) sales training; (3) personalizing messages from home offices to field personnel."
"A brief discussion of the problems facing the motion picture industry through the scarcity of raw materials, and a few suggestions on the question of conservation."
"For almost half a century, spectrophotometry has been the accepted method for the determination of those characteristics of an object which relate to its color. The National Bureau of Standards pioneered in this type of measurement and has continued its use as a primary method."
"Investigation of alleged war propaganda films by the Senate Subcommittee of the Interstate Commerce Committee in the fall of 1941 gave wide emphasis to the power of motion pictures. The Pearl Harbor incident changed the complexion of the public's attitude toward motion pictures and resulted in increased use of this medium in the war effort. Motion pictures are compared to other mediums of propaganda, such as the newspaper, the radio, the pulpit, and the comic strip. Under the stress of the war effort the word “propaganda” loses some of its stigma. Some of the motion pictures considered at the Senate's investigation are now being distributed widely with the Government's blessing. Nature of interest in motion pictures explained. Represent direct approach to the mind through the eye and ear in a common language. Power of motion pictures significant in terms of the millions of people who see them. Government use of motion picture films includes all branches of military service and auxiliary services, as well as the general American public, allied and neutral nations. — The National Archives' principal interest in moiton pictures is that of preservation and service."
"A brief account of the use of motion pictures in the production of aircraft, for the training of pilots, and for various other uses. Some of the problems involved in the production of such pictures are briefly discussed."
"A brief account of the production and applications of 16-mm motion pictures by the General Motors Corp., especially in connection with the speeding up of production of war materials."
"Film recording and reproducing equipment has recently been developed for the sound replacement program of the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studio. The completion of the program is of course indefinitely delayed because of the war situation, but the apparatus design had previously been brought to the stage of finished pilot models. — Quality of product was the primary design criterion although it was found practicable to meet optimum quality requirements and at the same time keep cost and difficulty of installation and maintenance at a minimum. — The apparatus integrates all the many developments that have long been standard practice in Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer motion picture sound production, and in addition provides many new features of additional value."
"At a meeting of the Atlantic Coast Section of the Society, held at the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York, N. Y., on November 19th, a group of presentations by members of the Army Motion Picture Service described the growth of the Service since its inception and the details of its operation and contributions to the prosecution of the war. — The U. S. Army Motion Picture Service, as part of the War Department, was well organized and had a considerable number of theaters throughout the country showing pictures at Army posts prior to the war, but since the declaration of war in December, 1941, it has been necessary to expand the activities of the Service tremendously. How the emergency has been met, its methods of financing, and its relation to civilian theaters are described in this symposium. Details of the management of what, in effect, is the world's largest theater circuit are fully discussed."
"This paper is divided into two parts: the first, covering the peace-time construction, growth, and design principles; the second, the wartime growth and basic governing principles, the latter period dating from the declaration by our President of a National Emergency on September 8, 1939."
"The furnishing and installation of air-conditioning in War Department theaters during the peacetime growth of the Service developed in step with progress in other directions. The buildings that the Service inherited were equipped with heating systems of the “gay-90's” design which usually caused overheating by a super-abundance of cast-iron radiators without benefit of any ventilation whatsoever. The auditoriums were well supplied with oscillating fans for summer operation, but their use died when sound pictures were born."
"This engineering phase of the U. S. Army Motion Picture Service includes first, the equipment; second, installation; and third, maintenance."
"In the presentation of a paper such as this, certain pertinent questions form in the minds of listeners depending upon their particular interest; therefore, it seems appropriate that the administrative phases of the Service charged with the operation of the War Department theaters, the construction and the equipping of which have been described in the preceding papers, be presented on a question-and-answer plan."
"Illumination of motion picture sets for black-and-white cinematography involves special techniques for the long, medium, close-up, and follow shots, as also the use of booster lights on outdoor sets. Color cinematography requires, in addition, special attention to the color quality of the light and the spectral characteristics of the film. The paper includes a discussion of these requirements and an extensive description of modern lighting equipment."
"A brief description of the evolution of the modern transparency process projection equipment, from the single-projector, 12-ft screen set-up twelve years ago, to the modern 36-ft screen for black-and-white pictures or the 36-ft screen for Technicolor, projecting 126,000 lumens of light from a triple-headed projector casting three pictures accurately superimposed upon the screen."
"The special photographic effects department is the natural result of the difficult problems that develop in motion picture production. Certain stories are written in such a manner that it taxes the ingenuity of this department to the utmost to produce the effects required in bringing to the screen the visual record of scenes described in scripts. Moreover, the public is becoming more and more critical in analyzing the results of trick photography, which necessitates absolute perfection in obtaining the effects."
"The use of sea water for washing photographic materials is practical only when a final wash of about 5 minutes in fresh water is used. This final wash removes the residual salts from the material and thus prevents (1) rapid fading of the image caused by these salts in the presence of hypo, and (2) absorption of moisture by the hygroscopic sea salts. — The removal of hypo is greatly accelerated during washing in sea water as compared with fresh water. As a result, it is recommended that films and prints be washed in sea water for about one-half of the usually recommended times and finally for about 5 minutes in fresh water. — An increase of 20° to 40°F in the temperature of sea water increases the rate of washing by 25 to 50 per cent but washing at as low a temperature as 50°F removes the hypo more rapidly than at 70° F in fresh water. — The total time involved in washing in sea water followed by fresh water is somewhat less than that required in fresh water alone."
"Perhaps the most outstanding feature of the Fifty-Third Semi-Annual Meeting, recently concluded at the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York, was the extent to which the various services of the Government were represented. Of the forty technical presentations on the program, twenty were by members of the U. S. Army, the U. S. Navy, the National Archives, and the Library of Congress. The Society is greatly gratified at the interest shown in these Meetings by the branches of the Government, and is pleased that the various Services are making use of the technical facilities that the Society affords."
"As the frequency-response range of a sound-reproducing system is extended the necessity for minimizing all forms of distortion is correspondingly increased. The part that the loud speaker can contribute to the overall distortion of a reproducing system has been frequently considered. A type of loud speaker distortion that has not received general consideration is described. This distortion is a result of the Doppler effect and produces frequency-modulation in loud speakers reproducing complex tones. Equations for this type of distortion are given. Measurements confirming the calculated distortion in several loud speakers are shown. An appendix giving the derivation of the equations is included."
"Several factors of importance in obtaining satisfactory reproduction of sound from lateral-cut phonograph records are considered. An experimental record-reproducing system employing the principles of frequency modulation is described and data are supplied on the measured and calculated performance characteristics of the system. Curves are included showing the vertical force required for satisfactory tracking with the experimental F.M. pick-up as compared with other pick-ups of conventional design."
"The name of this association shall be SOCIETY OF MOTION PICTURE ENGINEERS."
"In undertaking the preparation of rules for standards for rotating electrical equipment for railway cars and locomotives under the Rules of Procedure of the Ameri­can Standards Association, it has been necessary to cover a much wider field than was included in the AIEE Standards for Railway Motors which were published in 1925, approved as American Standards in 1928 and form the basis of this standard. In the first place, the scope of the rules has been changed to include all rotating electrical machinery forming a part of the power equip­ment of electrically-propelled railway cars and locomo­tives (including trolley, gasoline-electric and oil-electric coaches). In the second place, it has been found desirable to add new rules covering principally, rating, commuta­tion, and over speed tests. In the third place, the old rules must be brought up-to-date as modern methods of ventilating electrical machinery have changed the situa­tion in many respects. It is therefore felt necessary that some explanatory notes should be added to the rules in order to give the users of the rules a clearer understand­ing of the reasons for them."
"These standards apply to all indoor and outdoor types of alternating-current power circuit breakers rated in excess of 600 volts."
"This pamphlet serves as a guide in the preparation or revision of standards for apparatus or materials of specific types or fields of use. If a particular existing standard calls for other provisions, the existing standard should be followed. The values given are not mandatory, but are recommended for use in preference to other values unless there are good technical or economic reasons for using others. The values recommended have in general been selected to agree with well-established practices. Provisions are made for a great variety of conditions and for widely different apparatus and materials, some of which may be of practical importance only under unusual circumstances. In any individual standard, only those quantities of real practical importance in the particular case should be used. When ranges are suggested, it is generally with the thought that acceptance tests may be made within that range. Tests may be made outside the range, if acceptable, and agreed upon correction factors are available."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"It may be concluded from the current literature that definite progress has been made in studies of electrical anomalous dispersion and may be arbitrarily summed up with the following observations: First, the scope and nature of the electrical measurements have been greatly expanded. Second, an increased amount of descriptive matter on ultra high frequency technique involving theory of circuits and design of instruments reflects a fraction of the important work being done in different bands of electrical spectrum. Many of these technical descriptions have been presented in a clearer form than in previous classical treatments. Third, increased attention has been given to the behavior of the high molecular weight compounds, particularly of the synthetic polymer family. Fourth, accounts have been given for the application of high frequency, particularly in radio frequency heating. Fifth, it is encouraging that more research has been done on electrical behavior of surfaces and thin films. This latter avenue of approach is of importance to the insulation field. It is observed that in many of the papers care has been taken in the original project to prepare and carefully control the chemical systems being studied. It still behooves every investigator in dielectric constant, power factor and conductivity investigations to carefully prepare material to be measured or to know the past history of the materials. This is particularly true of the high molecular weight compounds such as synthetic polymers which are largely influenced in their nature by the methods of preparation. It is still urged that when various chemical substances are investigated for anomalous dispersion effects that measurements be extended over wider ranges of the electrical spectrum. Certainly, with the increased knowledge of high frequency technique such an extension into higher frequency ranges will be made possible."
"1943 was marked In the rubber Industry by the growth of the supply of synthetic rubber and a sharp decrease in that of natural rubber. During the year, the use of natural rubber in electrical insulation was severely curtailed. This was accomplished by the limitation of the uses for natural rubber and by controlling its maximum content in insulating compounds. In the latter part of the year, the shift of insulation from natural to synthetic rubber was well under way. On January 1, 1944, the use of natural rubber was forbidden except for very special purposes."
"The literature on insulating papers for 1943 is grouped under the following headings: 1. General 2. Capacitors 3. Cables"
"This review contains the following sections: I. General Articles II. New Plastics III. Standard Plastics IV. Wire and Cable Insulation V. Miscellaneous VI. Radio Frequency Heating"
"The literature for 1943 on insulating oils has been grouped under the following sections: I. Electrical and Oxidation Stability II. Transformer Oils A. Laboratory Testing and Maintenance B. Reclaiming C. Synthetic Oils III. Oil - Impregnated Insulation"
"During the last year the production of ceramic materials for electrical insulation expanded further. The expansion was in the direction of low dielectric loss ceramics for communication equipment. Manufacturers of electrical porcelain converted to the production of steatite radio insulators, and in cases where dielectric losses were of secondary importance they continued production of porcelain products chiefly for communications purposes."
"In the various standards there will be found a number of different situations regarding Usual Service Conditions. The following three are typical. 1. The group where the maximum ambient temper­ature is specified. The Standards for Bushings, Fuses, Lightning Arresters, Protector Tubes and Potential Devices where 40 C ambient is used and Marine Equipment where 50 C ambient is used are typical of this group. 2. The group where both the maximum and daily average temperatures of the cooling medium are specified. Standards for Transformers, Regulators and Neutral Grounding Devices are typical of this group. 3. The group where a higher ambient temperature is specified for silver contacts than for copper con­tacts. Standards for Circuit Breakers, Air Switches and Switchgear Assemblies are typical of this group. It is suggested that a selection of one of the fol­lowing groups can be made for the statement of Usual Service Conditions in most of the standards for specific equipment."
