"The historical influence of S. F. B. Morse, American inventor of the telegraph, upon present-day life is attributed to the fundamental soundness of his work, to his being first in the field of applied electricity, and to his recognition of the social forces reacting to his invention. He is credited with having inspired a technological following who laid the foundations of electrical and radio engineering and education. The paper appraises the effect of electrical communication upon world peace, and poses the question of engineering responsibility in the postwar world."
"The design of vacuum-tube oscillators for induction heating involves many factors not usually encountered in radio practice. The choice of the circuit to be used, the tank current, operating frequency, and the physical construction are dependent upon a knowledge of the theoretical and practical requirements of induction heating, and an understanding of the operating conditions to be met in the average factory. It is concluded that either the Colpitts or the coupled-grid circuit meets the requirements, and an operating frequency in the neighborhood of 500 kilocycles, with a tank current of from 100 to 300 amperes is desirable. In this paper, the induction-heating theory necessary to substantiate the above conclusions together with a brief discussion of the other factors involved is presented."
"The loss of tooth structure in the cervical (neck) region of the tooth may occur as a result of (1) dental caries (decay), (2) abrasion (mechanical), (3) erosion (chemical), or (4) combinations of (1), (2), and (3). This may lead to the condition known as \"sensitive neck\" of the tooth. Lost structure in the cervical area, just as in other parts of the tooth, must be replaced by means of fillings. Our problem is to prevent cervical tooth destruction and its subsequent unpleasant sequelae. The shallow, narrow gingival crevice around the neck of the tooth contains a fluid, the pH of which may or may not agree with that of the saliva. An acid fluid may decalcify the tooth structure with which it is in contact in the cervical region. Since the great majority of lesions occur on the side of the tooth next to the lip or cheek, does the fluid in the gingival crevice vary in pH locally in relation to a single tooth? The problem demands a much more sensitive indicator than the litmus papers which are in present use. The instrument must be capable of use directly in the oral cavity, and must require a minimum of fluid. The author has reviewed the literature concerning technics for measuring pH, and has discussed the subject with a number of investigators who are using such methods. Since these methods do not give promise of easy adaptability to the present problem, they are not discussed here."
"This paper presents descriptive and flight-test information relating to a new type Z-marker antenna system which possesses a number of marked advantages and improvements over that used at present Z markers. The antenna consists of two spaced-dipole arrays, crossed at right angles to each other, and excited in quadrature time phase. The design of the arrays is based on the principle of proportioning dipole currents in accordance with the coefficients of the successive terms of the binomial expansion. The antenna is of simple and rugged design, capable of maintaining a high degree of marker-zone stability under rain, snow, and sleet conditions, and lending itself to prefabrication in units and sections of transmission line for ease in field installation. The marker zone is considerably narrower than the zone provided by present Z markers and is ideally suited to instrument approaches. Whereas the height of present Z markers is limited to about 10,000 feet, the new marker antenna may readily be extended to over 20,000 feet altitude with present transmitting equipment. Pilots have, heretofore, noted the apparent excessive broadening of the marker zone during flights off-course or on flights over the radio range at a large crab angle. This effect, is greatly reduced with the new antenna, making it possible for the pilot to obtain a more accurate fix on the range station."
"This paper describes the properties, characteristics, and uses of the vacuum capacitor. The constructional details of two General Electric vacuum capacitors, the GL-1L38 and the GL-1L22, are discussed. Design considerations are discussed from the viewpoint of both the designer and the manufacturer. Capacitance formulas are given, and the equation for energy loss is derived. Operating characteristics and ratings of the vacuum capacitor are considered, and the effects of humidity, temperature, and vibration are noted. The advantages of the vacuum capacitor are thoroughly discussed and the applications which are brought about because of these advantages are described."
"A combined experimental and theoretical analysis is used to determine the manner in which the characteristics of the half-wave and full-wave voltage-doubling rectifier circuits depend upon the resistance of the diodes and upon the load resistance. The characteristic curves reproduced include those for the load voltage, ripple voltage, and maximum tube currents. Since it was found that the rectifier characteristics are nearly independent of the load-resistance parameter in the usual operating range, it is possible to obtain general characteristics which hold not only for the doublers but also for multiplying rectifier circuits of higher orders. Various combinations of these multiplying circuits are also discussed."
"This paper gives a physical and mathematical analysis of velocity modulation. The velocity modulation is expressed in terms of a variation with time of density at any distance from the modulating source. This time-density variation is developed as a Fourier series having Bessel coefficients and has the same form as Webster's expression for current. The high-frequency current and power induced in a resonant circuit by the variable-density electron stream are calculated. The effects of transit time through the resonant circuit of the modulating source and of the output circuit are included in the calculations. The possibility of using a steady stream of electrons passing through a single resonator as a transit-time oscillator is discussed."
"The formation of an electron image and its optical constants, such as magnification and position, is predicted from the simple assumption of transversal deflection in true proportion to the radial distance off the axis. The treatment is mechanical, rather than optical. Investigation of the electron trajectory is avoided. At first, the deflecting forces are supposed to act only in a negligible portion of the electron path. It is found that there exists for this case a \"thin-lens law\" which differs from the optical analogy only in that the distances are replaced by transit times. The resulting expression for electron-optical magnification is a ratio of transit times. Applications of these deductions are made for some particular electron tubes. The mechanical treatment is then used in connection with an extended field with a variable deflection constant all along the axis. The constants of thick lenses, either electric, magnetic, or combined fields, are expressed in terms of three integrals of the deflection with respect to transit time. The first of these integrals gives the focal length, the second the magnification, and the third the positions of corresponding object and image planes. All results are available in a graph of a family of hyperbolas for various operation parameters. The plane accelerating field, which forms a virtual rather than a real electron image, is studied in the same manner. Appendix A gives the mathematical proof of convergence of the series of functions used for approximation."
"Provides a listing of upcoming meetings of interest to all I.R.E. members."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following indicated admissions and transfers of memberships have been approved by the Admissions Committee. Objections to any of these should reach the Institute office by the date specified herein."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Engineering education is presented with a unique opportunity for improvement due to the interruption caused by the war. This improvement can only be obtained by a clear determination of the fundamental goals of engineering education and the application to its curricula of the engineering design processes it claims to teach. A distinction should be drawn between the problems of Science, which are those of analysis, and the problems of engineering which are those of Synthesis. Engineering and nonengineering students both should be taught what engineering really is, its philosophy and what it can do. The importance of its humanistic aspect should be stressed. A program is proposed for participation in the discussion and design of engineering curricula by the Institute sections."
"Some typical forms of amplidyne control are described and a method of analyzing their functional characteristics is given. It is shown how it is possible to predict the speed and accuracy of response of a follow-up control and how to avoid self-sustained oscillations. The problem is approached by the method of resolving irregular control functions into their equivalent sine-wave components. Several methods are described for suppressing oscillations due to feedback in follow-up controls and it is shown how anti-hunting systems may be worked out so as to result in a minimum impairment of the speed and accuracy of the control."
"This paper is a description of the \"unitized\" principle of radio construction, written in the interest of historical records, since it is quite radical in design and has been developed to a high degree of refinement. A receiver built of \"unitized\" parts will consist of a number of subunits which are assembled on two identical sheet-metal chassis, and all fall under three general classifications, namely, radio frequency, intermediate frequency, or audio cells. A detailed description of each cell type, as well as contingencies arising from their use in groups, is given. While \"unitized\" construction is primarily a mechanical development, certainly no compromise in quality need be accepted in the electrical performance of the unit. Indeed, an electrical advance has been achieved in the improved use of shielding and unique arrangement of parts which \"unitizing\" permits."
"Adequate coverage of the business districts of major cities by medium- or low-powered transmitters operating in the high-frequency end of the broadcast band has always presented a big problem to the broadcast engineer. This paper describes an auxiliary transmitter installation which was installed as a means of overcoming this handicap in Cincinnati, Ohio, where WSAI on 1360 kilocycles is located 10 miles from the business district. A special receiving antenna and a straight radio-frequency amplifier without detection is used to produce sufficient signal, after reradiation, to provide adequate service to the business area."
"The radiation characteristics of single-turn circular loops are investigated at wavelengths of the order of loop dimensions. Expressions are obtained for the distant field intensity in the plane of the loop and on the axis. Radiation patterns are shown for loops of various dimensions."
"The design of electrical networks does not necessarily require the development of any special method of attack since a direct application of Ohm's and Kirchhoff's laws is always possible. Nevertheless such designs may be simplified and the selection of a suitable type of network for a particular application expedited by developing special methods of attack. It is the purpose of this paper to present one of these special methods; namely, the application of low-pass and high-pass filter theory to the design of reactance networks. While this method of attack probably offers no simplification unless one is already familiar with filter theory, such theory is now so well known to most radio engineers that its application to the design of reactance networks should appreciably simplify the procedure. Two specific applications of the method of attack are given; namely, (1) the design of impedance-matching networks such as might be used between a radio-frequency transmission line and an antenna and (2), the design of coupling units for video amplifiers. No doubt other applications will occur to the reader."
"The majority of transmission-type electron microscopes use magnetic electron lenses because of their superiority with respect to resolving power as compared with that of electrostatic lenses. The axial field distribution of magnetic lenses customarily in use can be approximated very closely by the analytical expression H(z) = H0/[I+(z/a)2]. H(z) is the field strength along the optical axis z. H0is the maximum field strength at the point z = 0. 2ais the so-called half width of the field curve, i.e., H(±a) = H0/2. The paraxial-ray differential equation can be rigorously solved for such a field. On the basis of this solution, it is possible to calculate accurately all optical constants which are of interest in the design and performance of a microscope. Previous measurements and calculations are summarized and extended to give a complete description of the behavior of this type of electron microscope."
"In the arrangement of Fig. 1, the load ZLis assumed to have a high impedance and a capacitive phase. Formulas and graphs are presented for determining the correct length and tapping point on the line. If the step-up ratio is high, a simple formula (equation (12)) can be derived for the bandwidth of the system."
"Provides a listing of upcoming meetings of interest to all I.R.E. members."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following indicated admissions and transfers of memberships have been approved by the Admissions Committee. Objections to any of these should reach the Institute office by the date specified herein."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"Because the selection of aircraft warning devices has not, in most signal installations, provided the pilot with dependable warnings of dangerous conditions, this paper proposes that aircraft signal devices should be designed and stalled in compliance with the pilot's requirements as expressed in three design principles. The publication describes the weaknesses of current signal devices; it recommends signal light indicators that are bright enough to be seen under direct sunlight; and it illustrates and describes an automatic dimming control that operates as a function of natural light, independent of pilot actions."
"This paper will endeavor to show the deviations in the airplane magnetic compass caused by electromagnetic effects from the ship's wiring and will suggest some means that can be used to correct them."
"It is accepted USSR practice to carry three-phase industrial load and single-phase traction load on a single three-phase three-winding transformer. For a given combination of loads it is necessary to determine the proper capacity relationships of the three windings. This paper presents an analysis of the problem by the methods of symmetrical components. The data obtained from this analysis were used in setting up the standards for selection of transformer size for combined three-phase industrial and single-phase traction loading."
"The transportation problem of a large strip mine involves the loading, hauling, and dumping of both ore and waste. These materials are loaded with large electric shovels operating on benches along the slope of a hill or pit. The ore is transported over main-line tracks to the reduction plant, while the waste is hauled to suitable dumps. All main-line tracks are permanent and are equipped with permanent overhead distribution systems (Figure 1). All bench and dump tracks are portable and are equipped with portable overhead distribution systems. Sixty per cent of the world's copper is now obtained by open-pit mining of low-grade ore. Electrification of haulageways for open-pit mining is keeping pace with the expansion and is modernizing the transportation of huge tonnages. Huge capacities necessitating heavy cars and heavy grades demanding short-period overloads have been responsible for the selection of the electric locomotive for motive power. From the standpoint of locomotive capacity, rail size, dump-car capacity, and density of traffic, most open-pit electrifications compare in size with our large steam-road installations and hold an important place in the field of heavy traction (Figure 2). In addition to describing the haulage problem of large open-pit copper mines, this paper discusses the design of permanent and portable distribution systems."
"An arrangement of the measurement and oscillographic recording of large alternating currents, consisting of a special air-core transformer and an amplifier, is described. The air-core transformer is wound on a flexible core of small cross section, permitting its easy linkage with the current to be measured without disturbing the circuit. The underlying theory of the air-core transformer is discussed, and the modifications necessary to make it suitable for measurement purposes are described."
"The name ``pentode ignitron'' has been applied to a high-voltage tube used for rectification and inversion in electronic converters. It is a sealed steel tube having an anode, three grids, and a mercury-pool cathode. The tube is of the gas-filled type with control characteristics similar to those of the thyratron. An ignitor establishes a cathode spot each cycle on the mercury pool. The cathode spot is stabilized at low anode currents by the use of an auxiliary holding anode. The functions of the three grids are somewhat similar to those in the pentode vacuum tube, but the manner of use is quite different. The first grid, or one nearest the anode, is used as an intermediate anode to divide potential gradients across the tube during nonconducting periods. The second, or center grid, is used to control the starting of the conduction period and the third, or outer grid, as a shield to permit rapid deionization of the space between the control and shield grids. The introduction of multiple grids in ignitron tubes provides certain characteristics which are essential to inverter operation. It is the purpose of this paper to describe some of these characteristics, and the design and construction of the pentode ignitron tube. These tubes are the ones installed in the power converter described in the companion papers.1,6-8"
"The study of what happens to the proportions of a machine as the size of the machine is changed not only is interesting to imaginative engineers but also is very useful in teaching the engineer how best to standing the relationship which exists between size and any desired useful characteristic, it is possible to make better use of experience which has been obtained on machines of different output in determining the probably best proportions of a new device. It is the purpose of the present paper to point out how relatively complicated similar to dimensional analysis for the purpose of establishing such relationships as output per pound or output per cubic inch. Obviously, the conclusions which will be reached by such a study will be different as different original assumptions are established and it is therefore important to determine carefully what limitations on machine performance are really fundamental. Once such assumptions have been established soundly, it seems possible to arrive at very useful dimensional-analysis conclusions in connection with relatively complicated machines."
"Presents bibliography of literature on relay technology."
"Vibration in electric machinery is the result of a number of contributing agencies, some mechanical, others electromagnetic in origin. Features of mechanical and electrical design and construction which give rise to these agencies are discussed. The general character of the vibration which each agency produces is explained, as well as how different agencies combine to produce the resultant machine vibration. Where excessive vibration is encountered in the field, methods are outlined for ascertaining the major agencies responsible so that corrective modifications may be made which will be effective in reducing the resultant vibration. These methods are applied to motor-generator sets driven by two-pole induction motors to ascertain the cause of a particular type of vibration characterized by the vibration amplitude increasing and decreasing in uniform cycles twice during each revolution of motor slip. In this way the agencies which give rise to this particular type of vibration are explained, and methods by which they may be controlled to keep the resultant vibration to a satisfactory minimum are discussed."
"Electrothermal space heating and air conditioning is based on thermodynamic principles and is very simple. The equipment involved in the construction of the system is standard and can be supplied by existing manufacturers. Heating and heat-storage features can replace oil, coal, or wood-burning equipment used in existing heating systems in dwellings, such as hot-air heating; low-pressure and vapor-steam heating, and gravity or forcedcirculation hot-water systems. It is also possible to make use of the stored heat energy for sterilizers, pressure cooking, and steam tables, giving the housewife all the advantages of the modern hotel kitchen. The system is practical and economical to install in any dwelling or building now existing or in new construction. It is estimated that the cost for converting a hot-air heating system to the electrothermal storage heating system in a sixroom dwelling would not exceed US$600. Studies indicate that the cost of the equipment installed in the dwelling is moderate and competitive with other first-class heating and air-conditioning equipment on the market at the present time."
"Induction heating offers a method for heating of electrical conductors such as steel, brass, graphite, by exposing them to a varying magnetic field. The application of induction heating to melting, forging, surface hardening, and other uses is becoming increasingly common, resulting in a mounting interest for a physical concept of the heating effect itself. This effect has been previously analyzed by means of partial differential equations whose solutions are Bessel functions.1 It is the object of this paper to analyze the induction-heating effect by using concepts commonly applied to a-c engineering without involving differential equations. It was found that ordinary vector diagrams lead to quantitative expressions for the penetration of the magnetic field into the charge, for the distribution of eddy currents and generated heat, as well as for the impedance of the loaded inductor. The analysis is limited to the heating of a body of cylindrical shape, surrounded by a uniform alternating magnetic field; this limitation is the same as commonly applied when partial differential equations are used for the analysis. Another limitation is introduced by the assumption that the depth of penetration is very small compared to the radius of the charge. This assumption greatly simplifies the mathematical treatment without sacrifice to the physical concept. If the depth of penetration is five per cent of the radius of the charge, the expression for the generated heat in the load will deviate only 3."
"With the increasing use of dry-type transformers, attention has been focused upon the fact that the difference between the average temperature rise by resistance and the hottest-spot temperature rise is much greater than in liquid-immersed transformers. In this paper there are given the results of an extended series of thermal tests on a variety of dry-type transformer coils. Data are presented in regard to the effect of different heights of coil stacks, different configurations, and, in addition, some essential precautions in making temperature measurements are pointed out. Hot-spot temperatures were investigated in coils cooled by natural draft and by forced-air circulation at different velocities for both directed flow and random flow. Sufficient data are given to determine the ratio between the average temperature rise of the windings and the hottest-spot temperature rise. Based upon this relationship, the need is shown for review and modification of the conventional hot-spot allowances for dry-type transformers."
"Fundamental characteristics of the three-phase induction motor are reviewed with respect to their possible application to aircraft. A brief review of present motor specifications is presented, and test data are given on the operation of an induction motor with one or two lines shot away. Common types of motor loading are discussed with reference to the suitability of induction-motor drive for each. Curves are presented to illustrate the characteristics of motors and various types of loading."
"Resistance welding furnishes a clear-cut case of intermittent load. The more elaborate and expensive equipment that marks the trend in welding away from a blacksmith's art to a carefully controlled science warrants increased care in design. This paper explores one aspect of this design: the thermal limits to the periodic load that can be carried. In this case the application is to resistance-welding problems, and illustrative material is drawn from a type of interleaved flexible welding cable that has seen seven years' service in industry. The principles, however, apply to all types of welding: in fact, they extend to many fields in which the problem is to find the reaction to an intermittent force-such as electrical or mechanical transients."
"The advantages of high-speed reclosing of transmission lines in 20 cycles or less are well established for voltages up to 138 kv. Up to this date little information is available however on reclosing 230 kv lines in 20 cycles or less, because breakers have not been available for such fast operation. This paper describes a 230-kv oil circuit breaker which is suitable for three-pole or single-pole reclosing with a reclosing time of less than 20 cycles. The performance of the breaker is established by field tests for high-speed-reclosing operation as well as for interruption of charging currents."
"Many factors have operated to set up conditions which have been very favorable to the electrification of aircraft instrumentation. Two tabulations are presented to indicate the extent to which electrical principles have been applied to common aircraft instruments. The effects of increased size in aircraft, larger power plants, longer flight time, association with other equipment, and other factors upon instruments are discussed. The advantages of electric instruments are presented, and some possible future developments are noted."
"This paper presents the basic requirements to be expected of any electric cable which is considered for use in aircraft. A few of the problems encountered in forming a cable specification are presented, along with factors to be considered in establishing valid test procedures. The author has not attempted to give solutions to the problems presented, but rather to acquaint the reader with the fact that a major problem does exist in designing an electric cable suitable for use in aircraft, and that many factors which are extremely variable must be considered before an adequate solution can be found."
"A-c auxiliary-power systems for aircraft date back to World War I. Recently numerous technical articles have indicated an intense revival of interest in this subject. Heart of any electric system is the generator which supplies electric power to all parts of the system. An alternator, especially designed and built for 208-volt three-phase systems is described in this paper. Light weight and reliability dominate the design, which involved a large number of new and unusual problems."
"Many of the advantages of 115-volt d-c aircraft electric power are presented with frequent comparisons to 24-volt direct current and 208/120-volt 400-cycle three-phase alternating current. System reliability is emphasized. Weight comparisons favorable to 115-volt direct current are shown for power generation, distribution, and load components. Problems concerning the use of the two high-voltage systems are discussed and compared. The popular belief that 115-volt d-c switching and commutation is unsatisfactory at high altitudes is refuted. It is concluded that 115-volt direct current is the lightest and most practical of the proposed electric systems for both medium and large airplanes."
"In automatic flight control, as in other control problems, the limit of flight accuracy through mechanical and electrical controlling methods seems to have been reached. Only by the application of electronic-control principles has it been possible sible to set new standards and to achieve full flexibility of control with completely automatic operation of all control functions. Furthermore, these advantages have been obtained with actual reductions in the total weight of equipment. Since the use of an automatic pilot for precision bombing imposes complex and rigid requirements which are not encountered in commercial aeronautics, it can be confidently stated that the continued development of electronic controls will produce a small lightweight, foolproof automatic pilot for peacetime use. Because of the precision bombardment Autopilot, the control industry is certainly richer in knowledge and experience, and will be better able to cope with the new problems of peacetime industry. Although the connection now seems obscure, some of the applications in the development of the type C-1 Autopilot were taken from a cabin-temperature-control system. In a similar way, the principles employed in both systems have been found useful in the automatic regulation of engine power. And so, in a seemingly endless chain, each new development brings to light the solution of another problem. Who knows what application these same developments will find in enlarging the prosperity, health, and happiness of a peaceful world?"
"This paper presents the findings of a rather extensive program of testing electric systems in aircraft. Only the system which is presently being used in most United States Army Air Forces multiengine aircraft and a proposed system, which has been designed as the result of the tests, are described. All intermediate steps are not discussed since it is felt that the effects of these steps have been reflected in the proposed system. The proposed system differs from the present system primarily in that it employs separate networks for power feed and distribution instead of a common bus. Several desirable features of such a system are pointed out. Equipment is discussed in a general manner since the aircraft designer is concerned with the design of equipment only insofar as it affects the operation of the system. However, quite often the aircraft designer is in a position to make suggestions for improvement of the equipment."
"The new British system uses ultraviolet for the illumination of the instrument markings and red floodlighting for the general illumination of the cockpit. The scientific basis for this system, which is known as the dual system of cockpit lighting, is discussed, and some details of the fittings are given. Particular emphasis is laid on the layout of the cockpit, correct layout being regarded as the most important single factor for the success of the whole system."
"This paper has presented quantitative information obtained on various direct voltages. It should be cautioned that the maximum interrupted currents given here should not be taken as the rating of a device. The actual rating is a certain fraction of the maximum and is dependent on factors such as factor of safety desired, tip life expectany, maximum arcing time allowable, and so forth. Based on data obtained sofar, the arc-interruption problem at higher direct voltages appears quite feasible. Possible system voltages are three wire, 250 volt, or even 600 volt as far as arc interruption is concerned."
"This paper deals with the growth of aircraft electric-wiring installations consequent upon the increasing use of electrical equipment in combat aircraft of all types. A brief description is given of the various proprietary and prefabricated systems of wiring in current use in British aircraft. It concludes with a description of the principles of the standard system now in an advanced state of development which will be applied to all new types of British aircraft now in the design stage."
"Limitations of the ordinary capacitor at high frequencies have been in part overcome by a new three-terminal feed-through capacitor having a low impedance over a wide frequency range, thus enabling improved by-passing or filtering over this wide range of frequencies."
"Inherent overheating protection is undoubtedly one of the major developments in the fractional-horsepower-motor field in the last decade. Thermal protection is now advocated by some for aircraft motors, and many thermally protected motors are now in aircraft service. In this paper are reported the results of a number of laboratory tests taken on a typical aircraft motor. Tests were taken on a 1/15-horsepower 7,500-rpm d-c motor; loads ranged from locked rotor to the minimum running load sufficient to trip the thermostat. Ambient temperatures ranged from -58 to +78 degrees centigrade. Locked-rotor and running-overload temperature tests were also taken at a density altitude of 42,000 feet. Temperatures of the winding, frame, brush holders, and bearings were measured carefully under all conditions mentioned. Satisfactory protection, without out premature tripping, was invariably achieved."
"This historical development of connectors endeavors to survey briefly the various stages of electric-connector design and the expanding applications of the uses from the earliest types for heavy-duty power applications to the smaller and more intricate fittings in aircraft, electronics, sound equipment, television, and marine applications. Because of the broad scope of the subject, the material is treated in generalizations in order to cover the history within the space limitations of this paper. It is our belief that connector design, materials, and manufacture are keeping pace with the requirements of new electric equipment. Since the connector is essentially a component part of electric equipment, its development is affected by the requirements of new electric equipment and through adaptations for the improvement of existing equipment is increasing operating efficiencies."
"This paper presents the author's experience in the testing of brushes on machines intended for high-altitude service on aircraft equipment. The procedure and range of conditions found useful in testing a wide variety of small a-c and d-c machines are outlined in detail. It is hoped that other investigators will contribute their experiences through discussions or additional papers, and that from this material there may be developed a suitable test code, supplementing the present Institute test code for d-c machines. The only real criterion of brush performance is that of actual experience in service, since all of the infinite variety of conditions that affect brush performance cannot be anticipated under test conditions. However carefully conducted tests over a range of specified conditions do provide a good basis for brush selection and greatly expedite the final choice for the best over-all performance. For this reason, and because it will be helpful to investigators in comparing their results, it is hoped that the proposed brush test code may be undertaken in the near future."
"Engineers generally have been encouraged to attack new seemingly difficult and complicated problems by adapting the general principles utilized in their peacetime work to specific situations arising from the changed methods of modern warfare. This is well exemplified in the solution of aircraft-automatic-control problems. A summary of automatic-pilot principles and a description of some of the unique and less understood features of a specific modern design are discussed in this paper. It is of especial interest at the present time, because many manual operations of flight and engine control are being studied with a view to making them automatic, and, because as this trend becomes more pronounced, the interconnection of these automatic features will make the problems of each interrelated."
"The data presented may be summarized as follows: 1. When a Switchette (the trade name for a small double-break switch with 0.020-inch gaps and opening time of one to two milliseconds) was used on 250 volts and 0.4 ampere at sea level, voltage peaks as high as 28 times line voltage or 7,000 volts were observed. 2. A maximum peak of 130 times line voltage or 3,900 volts was observed while operating the Switchette double-break on 30 volts and 0.4 ampere at sea level. 3. When the Switchette was used the voltage peaks were found to decrease with altitude for all voltages tested. A maximum of seven to one in ratio of voltage at sea level to voltage at 50,000 feet was observed. 4. Using a double-break contactor which has a 1/16-inch gap per break and a gap-travel time of 12 milliseconds, the induced voltage peaks rise with altitude in every case. A maximum of two to one in the ratio of voltage at 50,000 feet to voltage at sea level was observed. The loads on which these tests were made, as the text of the paper will show, were very much less inductive than those used for the Switchette. 5. Variations of humidity over a wide range has little effect on the voltage peaks at any altitude. 6. There are no voltage peaks above normal line voltage in a purely resistive circuit."
"Higher-voltage d-c and 400-cycle a-c electric systems are being developed for large aircraft with increased electrical load in order to obtain lower conductor weights than would be required with the present 28.5-volt system. In view of the apparent freedom from sustained faults in low-voltage d-c systems despite damage from gunfire, the use of protective devices to isolate faulted cables has been considered unnecessary. The need for protective devices on the higher-voltage systems will depend on the relative behavior of faults and the required clearing time. A laboratory investigation based on four representative types of cable fault was made to determine (1) reasons for the apparent freedom from sustained faults in present 28.5-volt systems, and (2) comparative fault-clearing ability on the higher-voltage systems. The tests show (1) that freedom from sustained faults on 28.5-volt systems can be attributed mainly to fraying of faulted cables and the high level of fault current at most locations, and (2) that ability to clear is not materially different at the higher voltages if as much fault current is available. Current levels were determined, as a function of cable size, above which faults caused by gunfire can be expected to burn clear without serious fire hazard. Where available fault currents are below these values protective devices may be required to eliminate fire hazard. For 400-cycle systems protective devices may be required to clear faults with minimum generation in time to prevent loss of synchronism or stalling of motors."
"The operation of air-damping cylinders in restraining oscillation of a pendulum system is studied by experimental and analytical methods. On account of fundamental differences which are shown to exist between such cylinders and other damping devices the design of cylinders must follow certain dimensional requirements which are dictated by the dynamics of the whole oscillating system. These considerations determine the minimum size of cylinder which can be used in a given application and also the piston clearance which gives maximum damping effect."
"New conditions, imposed by the rapid advancement in aviation, have challenged industry to develop instruments capable of meeting rigid war requirements. This paper describes by general treatment and by reference to examples, how the design features of aircraft instruments have been influenced by wide ranges of operating temperatures, extreme conditions of shock and vibration, extension of altitude ranges, worldwide climatic conditions, adoption of new power supplies for aircraft, standardization of mechanical features necessary because of large-scale use, and the requirements of servicing. The design features discussed are generally applicable to all aircraft instruments."
"Impulse testing of transformers has resulted in improvement of design and manufacturing methods. Not only should the test methods now given in American Standard C57.2 be simplified to effect a reduction in cost of tests, but the test code should be modified to give an adequate assurance of failure detection. The importance of failure detection and means available at present are discussed at length. A new method is proposed which is more sensitive than the older methods and appears to be less subject to individual interpretation."
"The telegraph, which is the oldest electrical industry, celebrated its centennial on May 24, 1944. Technically, its operations have changed greatly during recent years, but the only data which have been published regarding such changes pertain to specific applications or developments. The present paper is intended to present an over-all picture of American telegraphy as it is conducted today by the one company which is engaged solely in the domestic telegraph business. The paper explains the nature of telegraph service, discusses the traffic problems associated with the business, describes the facilities which are employed, and the functions which they perform. Although the paper is long by reason of the multiplicity of telegraph services and types of apparatus, only brief references are made to features of plant or equipment which have become stabilized through the years and well understood by the industry. Similarly, no attempt is made to discuss details of technical design or operation, nor the various historical steps by which the telegraph reached its present status. In brief, the paper presents merely a general view of the industry at the end of its first century of existence."
"This paper on ``Telegraphy in the Bell System'' is a companion paper for the one prepared by the representatives of the Western Union Telegraph Company on ``American Telegraphy After 100 Years'' and the one by representatives of the International Telephone and Telegraph Company on ``Developments in the Field of Cable and Radiotelegraph Communications.'' This paper reviews some of the activities in telegraphy carried on by the various units of the Bell System in connection with the furnishing of private-line telegraph and teletypewriter exchange service. Frequent reference is made to the various publications covering these activities, and only those items which have not been disclosed previously are covered in any detail."
"The installation of the first 20,000-kw electronic power converter was made in December 1943 at the Edgar Thompson plant of the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation to exchange power between their 25-cycle 44-kv and 60-cycle 69-kv systems, the latter being connected to a large public utility. The converter operates in parallel on both systems with normal generators. This type of converter was selected to obtain its ease and simplicity of control, low contributions to faults, light weight of indoor equipment, high efficiency, and ability to transfer a fixed value of power regardless of departure from normal frequency ratio between the two systems. The converter may have its power output controlled manually or by a power regulator or may reduce the demands for power taken from the 60-cycle utility system. Controls also may be supplied to a typical electronic converter to cause it to share the total load of the receiving system in a predetermined proportion with prime movers. Inherently transferring power in a preselected direction in relation to the departure from normal voltage ratios of the two systems, automatic phase control of grid excitation rapidly compensates for changes in this ratio. The reactive kilovolt-amperes needed for commutation, harmonics, and transformer magnetizing current of both rectifier and inverter is supplied by the synchronous machinery in the steel company's systems. Faults such as arc-backs and ``shoot-throughs'' in the electronic equipment are suppressed in a very short time period. The rectifier cannot furnish current to a fault in its supply system."
"Radiant heating by means of low-temperature ceiling panels permits establishing comfort in a room with lower air temperature-and therefore a greater feeling of freshness-than is possible with heating systems of conventional type. Because of the reduced air temperature, the energy loss due to heating of ventilation air is less than usual and, in some cases, the over-all heat requirement for the system may be substantially less than that of a corresponding convection system. Architecturally, panel heating is advantageous, because there need be no visible evidence of the heating element. When electrically energized panels are used, this advantage is increased, as neither stack, boiler, nor fuel storage is required, and the only visible evidence of a heating plant is the electric switch. Electric systems of many types have been used extensively, but need exists for a panel of this type which will combine good diffusion characteristics (to give a uniform surface temperature) with minimum thermal capacity (to assure rapid response to load changes). The three steps which must be followed in designing a panel-heating system have been enumerated and discussed, and a detailed rational procedure has been presented for carrying out the analysis leading to determination of the required panel size (or operating temperature) and the energy requirement of the system."
"A re-entrant cylindrical cavity has been adapted to measure the dielectric constant and power factor of small disk samples of insulating materials. The methods of measurement, mechanical details, and electric coupling and detecting circuits all are described. A single cavity can be utilized only over a frequency range of about 1.5 ratio from lowest to highest frequency. Therefore, several different-sized cavities would be required to cover a range of frequency from 50 to 1,000 megacycles. An accuracy of ±0.00005 in tan δ and ± 1 per cent in dielectric constant may be obtained in routine measurements. Because the cavity has a very high Q(>2,000), it is much more sensitive to low-power-factor dielectric samples than any conventional coil-and-capacitor resonant circuit. The chief advantages of this method are that the operation of the apparatus is simple, very rapid, and similar to the susceptance variation technique now used at lower radio frequencies. Also, the involved computations usually found in other methods operative in this frequency range are eliminated."
"This paper attempts to clarify the effect of various controlling conditions on the magnitude of the evaluation constants used to select the optimum prime mover to be added to a system with a growing load. A hypothetical load has been set up which is assumed to grow at a known constant rate. Fixing on a policy of equal-sized units, two-unit installed reserve, and one-unit operating reserve regardless of load magnitude the progress of the individual generating units from the base to the top of the load curve can be readily studied. With the fundamental mechanics of the problem delineated the effects of unit availability, unit life span, rate of load growth, load cycle, load factor, unit capacity, and system reserve policy are analyzed. From this analysis certain principles are apparent, among the most important being: 1. Historical data of past and present prime-mover experience are of very limited value. 2. Evaluation constants for future prime movers are not fixed in magnitude and must be redetermined from time to time for each individual system. Having demonstrated the relative importance of the various controlling conditions this work is concluded with a recommended procedure for determining the evaluation constants for any practical case."
"Results of a field survey and laboratory tests are presented in this paper showing the relationships between loading, conductor-temperature changes, movement in manholes and ducts, and sheath life for paper and lead cable. The record on underground 15-kv cable is included to emphasize the noninherent failures attibutable to physical proportions of underground structures. Improvements in modern cable have permitted operation at increasing temperatures with few inherent failures. The tests and operating experience indicate that unsatisfactory sheath life caused by fatigue of lead can result from cyclic tempratures allowed in standard cable specifications. A method is outlined for computing sheath strains for given cable off-sets and movements at the duct mouth. Fairly reasonable estimates of sheath life can be prepared. The tests indicate also that snaking of cable within the ducts may impose severe cyclic strains on the lead and become the determining factor for optimum sheath life."
"It is concluded that for the type of systems studied, the system stability characteristics are affected very little by the type of kilovar supply chosen for a central source. If a system is designed and operated in accordance with well-established principles, utilizing modern relaying, suitable generator-voltage regulators, and switching equipments, the stability problem can be essentially narrowed down and isolated to those cases involving electrically long lines and hydroelectric generating stations. In this study, a wide numerical range of parameters was investigated, allowing certain conclusions to be deduced. The data can likewise be interpreted for other systems of similar types. For instance, the results of a high-reactance hydroelectric generator and transmission line of a given length can be applied with reasonable accuracy to a longer length of line and a lower-reactance generator. Similarly, the results of a heavily loaded station with a large inertia constant can be interpreted for one lightly loaded having a smaller constant. Refer discusssion in appendix on this subject. It follows therefore that if certain general conclusions can be reached for the particular systems studied over a wide range of parameters, the same general conclusions can be applied judiciously to other systems of the same type having different voltages, length of lines, machine ratings, and so forth. With this thought in mind, it will be appreciated that the range of constants and the variations studied make for more of a generalization than would appear superficially."
"Field and laboratory tests on the control described prove that the full-cycle discharge system produces welds which are metallurgically sound. Also this new discharge system increases the operating speed, aids in resetting the flux in the welding transformer, and reduces sparking at the electrodes to a point where the spark (if any) does not mark the material being welded. Speeds up to 200 spots per minute were obtained on a large press-type welding machine when using a 480-microfarad capacitor bank which was being charged to 2,500 volts. The following speed ratings have been applied to the control: Continuous Speed, Spots Per Min Maximum Speed, Spots Per Min Capacitance, μf Capacitor Volts 200. 480. 2,500 200.. 480. 2,500 60..... 2,640..... 2,800 25. 2,640. 2,800 The flux-resetting circuit eliminates the large reversing contactors which were formerly used to reverse the connections to the primary of the welding transformer between each weld. This helps to make possible the high operating speeds obtainable and reduces the maintenance cost on the control. The amount of iron used in the welding transformer can be reduced since greater flux changes can be obtained because of the flux bias produced by the flux-resetting current. The charge-control circuit controls the voltage to which the capacitor bank charges to any desired valve between 1,500 and 2,800 volts and regulates the voltage to within plus or minus two per cent of the desired value without undershooting or overshooting."
"The magnitude and wave shape of the discharge currents in 46 direct strokes have been measured during a five-year period at 25 direct-stroke stations on structures ranging in height from 75 to 585 feet. Measurements have been made with instruments capable of recording the wave front and tail of the high-current peaks and the low-magnitude continuing currents to as low as 0.1 ampere. These data are correlated with 138 special camera photographs of strokes to open ground obtained in this investigation, with similar photographs taken in South Africa and with stroke current measurements made on the Empire State Building in New York City. Most strokes to structures, less than 600 feet high, appear to have discharge characteristics essentially the same as those to open ground. Their probability of being struck is about proportional to height, being in the order of two strokes per year for 500-foot structures and 0.3 per year for 100-foot structures. Whereas practically all strokes to the 1,250-foot Empire State Building are initiated by an upward streamer propagating from the building to the cloud, only four such strokes have been recorded in this investigation: three out of 13 strokes to a 585-foot stucture and one out of 13 to a 360-foot structure. Strokes of this type, as recorded here and to the Empire State Building, had discharge currents consisting principally of a continuous flow of low-magnitude current upon which the high-magnitude short-duration peaks are superimposed."
"D-c capacitors of the impregnated-paper type play an important role in electronics equipment required by the armed services. In some of these applications good performance is required over very wide temperature ranges. A new chlorinated hydrocarbon composition which maintains reasonable capacitance constancy over a wide temperature range is described. The properties of this liquid are compared with conventional chlorinated impregnants. Since some alternating voltages usually accompany the direct voltages applied to capacitors, the a-c behavior over wide temperature and frequency ranges is described for capacitors impregnated with three different liquids. The effect of voltage and temperature on the resistance of capacitors is discussed. Considerable attention didevoted to the life behavior of capacitors impregnated with chlorinated liquids under d-c stresses at high temperatures. A life-testing procedure is described which has yielded very satisfactory results on capacitors of varying sizes and ratings. A means for prolonging the life of capacitors impregnated with chlorinated impregnants involving the addition of stabilizers is discussed. Data showing effect of a number of stabilizers are presented. Finally, some data are presented showing the effect of voltage on the life of d-c capacitors."
"This paper is an effort to state clearly and to present a solution for the problems encountered in the design of one of the vital constituents of a-c restance-welder power supply-the low-voltage feeder. The scope of the paper is much wider, however, since the determination of design loads from the probability standpoint for the purpose of determining maximum allowable impedance and expected temperature rise is a problem encountered in the design of all equipment common to a number of resistance-welding installations. The topics considered in the paper are: 1. Definition of voltage regulation as it applies to resistance-welding equipment. 2. Establishment of a criterion of good voltage regulation as defined. 3. Application of the theory of probability to the determination of maximum tolerable impedance and minimum copper section consistent with safe operating temperature. 4. Calculation of reactance of the closely spaced rectangular bar bus-type feeder, which the authors believe is best suited for the job, and its nearest competitor for low reactance, the concentric tubular feeder. 5. Calculation of maximum current capacity in terms of allowable temperature rise in the afore-mentioned type of bus feeders. 6. Determination of force between conductors in flat bar bus under short-circuit conditions, 7. The complete design of a feeder starting with typical data."
"Pursuant to a request of the cable working group, AIEE committee on power transmission and distribution, a co-ordinated study has been made on the impulse strength of insulated power cables having various types of insulation and their accessories. The data included not only all published information, but also much privately contributed information. On the basis of these data and some supplementary tests recently made, tabulations of safe withstand impulse voltages have been prepared. The information is also discussed with regard to its significance for practical applications from the standpoint of switching surges as well as from the standpoint of lightning impulses. Recommendations are given for standardizing impulse-test procedures."
"When electric machines were taken to high altitudes of 25,000 to 40,000 feet on modern military aircraft, the brushes wore rapidly, insulation sometimes failed, lubrication was uncertain, windings over-heated, and other vexing problems appeared. New materials and methods were needed for this new environment. To accelerate the development of aircraft apparatus, air-conditioned chambers are provided to duplicate the cold, clean, dry, rarefied air of the stratosphere. Facilities being used to test a range of equipment from totally enclosed one-watt computer motors to pressure-ventilated 40-kva alternators1 are described. Reasons are given for the selection of specific equipment. From simulated-high-altitude tests under controlled conditions, designers are more quickly completing new apparatus, are better predicting its performance, and are reducing the amount of flight testing required to develop new aircraft."
"Recent designs of aircraft-radio equipment have provided for operation from existing aircraft electric systems, and little attention has been given to providing the electric system that is best suited for radio equipment use. This has been a natural and proper approach, because of the relatively small load requirements of aircraft radio. Accordingly, comparatively little attention has been given to the effects of the type of power supply on the characteristics of aircraft radio equipment. It is the authors' belief that a review of the subject is desirable at this time to assist aircraft designers in making a proper choice of aircraft designs, as well as possidle modifications to the electric systems on aircraft now in use. This paper considers the effects of the various types of aircraft electric systems on the characteristics of the radio equipment, from the standpoints of weight, efficiency, reliability, simplicity, flexibility, and emergency operation. The various types of a-c and d-c power supplies are discussed, and consideration is given to the effects of frequency and number of phases on a-c power supplies."
"Engine-mounted aircraft generators must fit within an envelope 6½ inches in diameter by 14 inches long. Electric-power requirements on military airplanes are increasing so rapidly that the most urgent assignment confronting designers of aircraft generators is that of achieving the ultimate output possible from this envelope. In 1939 the maximum rating was 1,500 watts; in 1940 the maximum rating jumped to 3,000 watts; in 1942 to 6,000 watts. A rating of 9,000 is coming into use, and a rating of 12,000 watts is likely to be possible in 1944. A rating of 15,000 watts has been mentioned. New materials, new military demands, new design ingenuity, new manufacturing techniques, and new operating experiences have all had a part in introducing more advances in this field during the past four years than were made during the approximate 20 years of generator history prior to 1938. Methods by which these advances have been accomplished are described, and possibilities for future progress are indicated."
"The first 138-kv underground transmission cables to be installed west of Chicago and the largest now in use at this voltage (except for short station runs) were placed in service during 1943 by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. While generally similar to 138-kv lines previously installed in the East this installation involves a number of novel design features which make it of more than usual interest. The paper describes these features and some of the studies of carrying capacity, cable movements, sheath voltages, oil supply and alarm, and sheath corrosion, which led to their development, and includes a summary of significant data and characteristics of the installation."
"A method is proposed for determining the current capacity and the temperature of operation of cables in airplanes. The cable selected should in combination with the power plant result in the smallest weight for each electrical unit converted into useful work. A general equation is given for selecting the optimum current which is expressed in terms of the weight of the cable, power plant, and fuel; the length and resistance of the circuit, and the operating voltage of the system. The method of selection indicates that the current capacity of a cable operated for short periods with-out requiring additional power-plant or fuel capacity is limited by the temperature the insulation will withstand. For open wiring requiring power-plant capacity bare copper conductors should operate from 50 to 65 degrees centigrade above ambient temperature, and insulated copper conductors 10 to 25 degrees centigrade lower. The temperature of the conductors in conduit will depend upon the installation. Measurements made upon two samples of cable in 0.5-inch conduit indicated that the conductors should operate at 45 to 80 degrees centigrade above ambient temperature. All bus bars and conduit should be enameled or painted to reduce their operating temperatures. Measurements upon an aluminum-alloy tube indicated a drop of 35 degrees centigrade in 100 degrees. The greatest reduction in weight of the electric system will be accomplished by increasing the voltage. Further reductions may be accomplished by using aluminum conductors."
"Flight and laboratory tests are in progress to determine changes in design of aircraft generators which will improve their resistance to vibration-fatigue failure. Vibrations near mountings of generator voltage regulators and reverse-current relays are being measured to provide data for design and testingof these accessories. The paper presents flight vibration data and discusses sources of vibration in aircraft, accessory-vibration characteristics, vibration test apparatus, and investigations of failures of generator mountings and flexible drive asemblies. On the basis of the flight and laboratory tests and other avilable information, recommendations are made for the design of generators which will give most satisfactory mechanical performance. The primary requirements of a generator from the standpoint of avoiding vibration failures are a stiff mounting flange and a flexible drive assembly having a satisfactory damping device."
"Induction heating by radio frequency is taking its place rapidly in many industrial processes. The high-power vacuum tube, in the past used only in radio applications, is now generating radio-frequency energy for industrial use. To apply this energy properly to industrial-heating problems, it becomes necessary that engineers active in all phases of industry understand the characteristics and limitations of the vacuum-tube radio-frequency generator. The fundamentals of the vacuum-tube self-excited oscillator and design considerations which determine the characteristics of the radio-frequency generator are reviewed and illustrated. In general, the characteristics show a high-impedance constant-current variable-voltage generator which requires manipulation of load circuits to load the generator properly. Methods are illustrated for accomplishing proper loading, and numerical examples are given illustrating the formulas and procedures necessary to any induction-heating problems."
"The paper deals with the increasing use of electricity as a source of power for operation of services in large transport aircraft. It outlines the advantages which are obtained from the use of medium-frequency a-c electricity and stresses the saving in weight which is obtainable from raising the present voltage (30 volts direct current) to around 200. Some suggestions are made in regard to form and layout for postwar installations in the case of both land airplanes and flying boats of the larger sizes."
"The practicability of using 120-volt d-c power in large airplanes has been a subject of discussion for some time. This paper describes the 120-volt d-c system and the equipment used on the Navy flying boat Mars, the service requirements, and the problems incidental to development and design of the components of the system. Calculated weights for several arrangements of generating equipment including the installed system are tabulated for comparison and the weight of the installed 120-volt d-c system is compared with the weight of the 28.6-volt d-c system. A summary report on flight tests and service operations provides the basis for conclusions relative to the practicability of 120-volt direct current for large aircraft."
"1. The overhang-moment limit, or still better a limit on the moment of inertia of the accessory about a line through the center of the accessory mounting surface, would be helpful by limiting one of the two factors which control the natural frequency of the accessory-rear-cover combination. However, the natural frequency is the factor of prime importance, and, if control of the natural frequency is to be maintained, it should be applied directly. This control is not practical with the equipment now in use, because accessories have grown so large that sufficient stiffness cannot be built into their supporting structures to keep their natural frequencies out of the range of the engine- propeller natural frequencies. 2. A survey of accessory-vibration data obtained on recent and current aircraft power-plant installations indicates that chance is the most important factor in determining the suitability of an accessory installation. Practically all accessory installations have natural frequencies in the frequency range where engine-propeller resonances exist. If an engine-accessory natural frequency coincides with an engine-propeller resonance in which large amplitudes of vibration occur, failures will result in the accessory and/or the accessory mounting studs. To obtain remedy for these unfortunate installations, either some revision of the installations is required, which results in its being nonstandard, or some other accessory or accessories must be used. 3. Accessory development is facilitated greatly by the use of an accessory-vibration-testing machine. An aircraft-engine rear cover should be mounted on the machine for attachment of the accessories."
"Recent advances in the field of illumination before the war and the probable postwar developments and applications furnish the subject of this article. Arc, tungsten-filament incandescent infrared, mercury-vapor, sodium-vapor, and fluorescent lamps are discussed in detail."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Simplicity and reliability have been kept foremost in generators recently developed for Diesel-electric switcher locomotives ranging from ten to 80 tons. New motors and control equipment have been developed at the same time. This paper deals especially with the generators, their electrical and mechanical features, and performance characteristics, both as power generators and as motors for engine starting from the locomotive battery. Operating fundamentally as self-excited generators, separate exciters have been eliminated. The simplicity of the generator windings has allowed corresponding simplicity of control circuits."
"The application of switching locomotives involves calculations of locomotive performance under given conditions of grade, train weight, and length of run. Such calculations can be made quickly by nomographic charts. Equipment heating limitations on Diesel-electric and electric locomotives can also be checked by elements added to the nomograms. The theory and the method of construction of such charts are described in the paper."
"Symmetrical-components concepts are developed for the currents, voltages, and impedances of a four-phase system, and formulas are given for various types of short circuits. The idea of symmetry among the members of each set is based on the angular displacement between the members of the set, rather than that of phase rotation which fits the three-phase case very nicely but is inadequate for the four-phase case. Aside from its possible value for four-phase problems, which are rather rare, the paper is presented here in the expectation of an additional benefit, namely, that the parallelisms and contrasts between the four-phase and the three-phase formulas may throw further light on the general theory and applications of symmetrical components."
"The mechanical power delivered by the motors of electrically propelled vehicles is almost always transmitted through gears to axles. The few exceptions are some gearless electric locomotives designed many years ago. Although the top speeds of vehicles and locomotives have increased materially since the inception of electric drive, the very nature of the service requires high tractive efforts in starting from standstill and at low speeds. In the case of transit vehicles, frequent stops require operation at relatively low speeds a large percentage of the time. The history of traction-motor design discloses a trend toward higher and higher motor speeds. These higher speeds have resulted in reduced motor weight and space requirements, which are two most important considerations in traction apparatus. In order to use motors of higher speed economically, greater gear reductions are required. As developments in gear design, gear materials, and heat treatments progressed, greater gear reductions became practicable, and the higher-speed motors came into general use. Modern double-reduction gear units and hypoid gears permit greater gear reductions and, hence, higher motor speeds than the single-reduction spur gears which were once employed in all traction applications. The reductions in weight and size of traction motors are not only advantageous in themselves, but they permit features in vehicle construction which add to the comfort and convenience of passengers and to over-all economy of operation."
"Small panel-type electrical indicating instruments are recognized as an and power control equipment, which is so essential in all military and naval operations on land, in the air, and on the sea. Such instruments are required to be small, compact, light in weight, and reliable measuring devices; and one of the major factors in the realization of these requirements is the efficient utilization of improved magnetic materials for permanent magnets. This paper describes properties of a new magnetic alloy and compares its characteristics with other permanent-magnet materials used in small panel electrical indicating instruments of the permanent-magnet moving-coil type. The use of a new cobalt-molybdenum-iron alloy as a permanent magnet material in an indicating instrument and its influence on design trends are discussed. The resulting improvement in overall instrument performance by the use of this new material is summarized, with particular reference given to mechanical factor of merit which is a measure of instrument reliability."
"The modern fighting airplane requires a large amount of electric power for its successful operation. The aircraft generator provides a reliable source of power at the lowest possible weight. The development of these generators has required close co-ordination of design, testing, and interpretation of test results. The tests include raw material, parts, laboratory, life, mechanical, and flight tests. This paper describes tests which have been made and the interpretations which have led to improvements in d-c aircraft generators."
"Experience has shown that high-speed reclosing of circuit breakers on high-voltage transmission lines is of considerable value in maintaining system stability and continuity of service. This paper describes a new line of outdoor oil circuit breakers and the special design features which make them suitable for 20- and 35-cycle reclosing duty at voltages as high as 230 kv. Data are included showing high-power-laboratory short-circuit tests on these duty cycles at 138 kv and 230 kv at currents corresponding to three-phase duty of more than 2,500,000 kva."
"It is the purpose of this paper to examine various definitions of inductance based on the application in which the term is used. Comparisons are made between the definitions as a function of magnetomotive force and flux density for the special case of dynamo-grade (2.75 per cent) silicon steel. The effects of hysteresis and eddy currents are discussed. Consideration is confined to iron magnetic circuits in which no air gap exists, so that practical applications of conclusions drawn are limited somewhat."
"In the development of the five-Kilovolt Magne-Blast air circuit breaker, it was shown that rapidly increased arc resistance was extremely effective in circuit interruption. This paper describes an extension of that principle in the development of a Magne-Blast circuit breaker for 15-kv services with an interrupting rating of 250,-000 kva. The higher electrical resistance of the arc necessary for this voltage has been made possible by an increase in the thermal efficiency of the interleaving arc chute. The arc chute which provides this greater efficiency is discussed in some detail. The design of the breaker is described briefly as well as its application to metal-clad switchgear. Test data and representative oscillograms are submitted to substantiate the interrupting rating assigned to this breaker."
"The general relations covering the heating of transformers and the effects of this heating on safe overloads are simple in principle, but the mathematics involved are complex. When suitable curves are used to express the relations, the simplicity is evident. Loading of transformers and other equipment by temperature is increasingly common and rightly so. An understanding of the principles involved aids in intelligent application of information for loading by temperature. The usefulness of the American Standard C57.3, \"Guides for Operation of Transformers and Regulators,\" 1942 would be increased by the inclusion of temperature-time charts so that a solution may be obtained for the unusual loading case. These charts are based on the same principles on which the present rules are based. In addition to simplifying the procedure for taking care of special cases, such charts present a graphic picture of the heating relations of transformers."
"In order to meet the requirements for the protection of high-voltage motor starters and for protecting small loads and apparatus connected to those parts of electric systems having extremely high short-circuit currents, it has been necessary to increase the current range of the three-element current-limiting fuse. This fuse, which was announced in 1940, has been in commercial use for over two years in the lower ampere ratings. The development of higher current ratings in a fuse of suitable dimensions produced problems and solutions totally different from those previously encountered. A new type of fusible element has a time-current characteristic particularly suited to current-limiting fuses. Extremely fast melting times on high currents to give correct current-limiting action are combined with a continuous current-carrying capacity and normal melting time of an element having five times the area previously associated with the current-limiting characteristic. The association of this element, with gas-evolving material and quartz sand to give quick and positive current limitation while the metal vapors are absorbed, results in an entirely new fuse construction. The combination of this current-limiting element with a noninductive resistor of special characteristics and a totally enclosed boric-acid ``clean-up'' fuse has resulted in a current-limiting fuse of more compact construction than has been available heretofore in the ratings involved. Exhaustive tests have demonstrated the suitability of the new fuse for application on high-capacity systems to interrupt the full range of fault currents with minimum system disturbance."
"The overloads recommended in the AIEE transformer subcommittee's report,1 ``Emergency Operation of Transformers,'' are based on considerably higher transformer hot-spot temperatures for short-time operation than those given in and used to derive the emergency overloads recommended in the American Standard Guides for Operation of Transformers and Regulators C57.3. Overloads may be obtained in close agreement with the recommended emergency overload curves by the use of a relay which is controlled by a specially designed heating coil or by a specially designed relay with a conventional heating coil. Since a relay operates at about the same temperature irrespective of time to avoid too high hotspot temperature for ultimate conditions, the relay and heating coil must have such characteristics as to permit the transformer hot-spot temperature to reach considerably higher values for short times than for ultimate steady-state conditions. A detailed study of this problem has shown that this may be accomplished satisfactorily by the use of a lagged heating coil which has a relatively large time constant in comparison with that of the transformer winding or by the use of a heating coil, the time constant of which is about the same as that of the winding for operating a relay that is compensated for the changes in ambient temperature. This relay which has been developed can be set to perform three separate functions: control fans, give a warning signal, and sound an alarm or, if desired, trip the transformer off the circuit."
"This paper deals with certain aspects of the accuracy of measurements on a lumped R-C cable, and contains definite suggestions as to the desirable number of lumps to be used in such measurements. The effect of capacitive leakage and the influence of sectioning (that is, the influence of the number of lumps) are considered in their relation to the accuracy of measurements of potential and current. The increasing importance of lumped R-C circuits in heat-transfer research is pointed out, and the analogy between the flow of electricity in such circuits and the flow of heat, particularly unsteady-state or transient heat flow, is treated. The investigations described in this report were carried out at Columbia University on the heat and mass flow analyzer, which is essentially an R-C circuit. The results can be used in the appraisal of errors encountered in heat flow and similar problems solved by the analogy method, that is, by lumped R-C circuits."
"Thyratron control of d-c motors offers a fast and smooth braking or reversal which is finding wider application in industry as the characteristics become better known. With proper control the rectifier circuit, which normally supplies power to the armature of the motor, can be operated as an inverter to decelerate the motor by regenerating the rotational energy of the motor and its load into the a-c system. The circuit then shifts to rectifier operation to accelerate the motor and load to the preset speed in the reverse direction. The motor-armature current can be held very nearly constant over the full reversal operation of deceleration and acceleration at a value which can be made less than the rated motor current. Test results and theory show that the motor's inherent reactance is sufficient for inverter operation, and, that during normal inversion, commutation of the tubes is not difficult. In addition, inversion can be utilized to bring the motor to a stop more efficiently than by plugging and more rapidly and efficiently than by dynamic braking."
"Corona-starting voltages of the components of a 208-volt 400-cycle grounded-neutral electric system are reported for conditions to simulate altitudes between sea level and 50,000 feet. The corona characteristics are shown to be functions of air pressure, electric-field geometry, humidity, and the cleanliness of insulating surfaces. The effect of reducing pressure is shown to lower the corona-starting voltages of aircraft cables by as much as 60 per cent because the dielectric strength of large air gaps drops a comparable amount. Reducing the pressure has small effect on the corona-starting voltages of low-voltage capacitors, because the dielectric strength of small air gaps is nearly independent of pressure. Moisture and dust on insulating surfaces and moisture in aircraft cables produce corona-like disturbances below 208 volts. Data are presented on cables, capacitors, parallel studs, and needle gaps. Under dry conditions all corona-starting voltages were well above the operating voltages of the system."
"A new servo system has been developed in which the connecting link between the primary and secondary shafts is polarized light whose plane of polarization rotates with the primary shaft. This makes possible the accurate following of the rotation of the primary shaft without any load being imposed on it. This servo system has been applied successfully in several electro-mechanical calculating machines."
"Normal and continuous performance of electric circuits is a prerequisite to the effective use of airplanes. Electric short circuits which result in the loss of power for vital control operations or which cause fires are definite hazards. The extensive use of the 28.5-volt d-c aircraft systems, the proposed 120-volt d-c system, and the consideration being given a three-phase 120-208-volt a-c grounded neutral system for high-altitude planes necessitated an investigation into the burning-clear and damage phenomena on all circuits. Short circuits were applied on an aluminum-alloy section of an airplane, and oscillograms of short-circuit current and voltage taken. In both the a-c and d-c systems it was found that the fault-damage and burning-clear phenomena depended upon the energy level in the short-circuit area. When the contact area between the conductor and aircraft structure was small, the energy level was high, and the fault burned itself clear. In such cases the aircraft structure was perforated. Increase in contact area and a consequent reduction in energy concentration resulted in a sustained fault current. In some of these cases a definite welding of the conductor to the aircraft structure occurred, while in others no burning took place."
"This paper describes a new 14-integrator differential analyzer recently placed in service by the General Electric Company at Schenectady. This analyzer has a mechanical interconnection system but has integrators of novel design in that a Polaroid follow-up system is used rather than the more usual mechanical torque amplifiers."
"The air strength of electrical apparatus to long waves (1½×40 microseconds) is essentially proportional to the RAD. The impulse strength of apparatus applied at high altitudes and exposed to lightning should be rated accordingly. The RAD corrections for front-of-wave impulses (1,000 kv/microsecond) are one half and less than one half of those for long waves. Sixty-cycle strength and corona are also affected in direct relation to the RAD. Voltage ratings naturally should recognize this. The oil strength of apparatus is practically unaffected by altitude. Data on the effect of humidity are presented. Other influencing factors that may be present at high altitude are discussed. Corona effects may need more attention."
"A self-contained air circuit breaker for a rating of 500,000 kva at 7.5 kv has long been regarded as a desirable goal. Recent developments in magnetic-type air circuit breakers have indicated the economic feasibility of similar designs for ratings higher than previously attained. The development of a 500,000-kva 7,500-volt magnetic air circuit breaker is described. A description of the breaker and the peculiar design problems are presented. Test data with oscillograms are shown."
"1. The recording of lightning currents with surge-crest-ammeter links began in 1934. In the ensuing years through 1942, 5,501 bracket records have been obtained from transmission towers aggregating 13,227 tower-years of exposure. There have been 54 sets of records from lightning arresters, obtained during 155 bank-years of experience. 2. Based on an eight-year period of record in one case and a five-year period in the other, two similar 220-kv lines running in a generally north-south direction experienced the same average number of strokes per year within approximately seven per cent. Two similar 66-kv lines lying in an east-west direction experienced the same average number of strokes, within about three per cent, during a seven-year period. 3. A 132-kv line, having about the same span lengths as a 220-Kv line but lying in a more or less northwest-southeast direction within about two miles of a river throughout its length, experienced on the average about 40 per cent more strokes per unit length than the 220-kv line during an eight-year period. 4. The maximum number of strokes recorded on one of the transmission lines in one year was 4.9 times the minimum number recorded in another year. The maximum number on this line occurred in the same year that the minimum number occurred on a comparable line. 5. The strokes in single years to a line deviated up to 89 per cent from the seven- or eight-year averages."
"This paper presents some of the considerations involved in selecting electric systems for large aircraft. Such systems are undergoing intensive development now; consequently it is not possible to give complete answers to all problems which arise. Also, certain parts of the electric systems are subject to military classification and cannot be discussed. Nevertheless it is felt that many engineers, particularly those engaged in the design of such systems, will welcome a brief review of the basic factors involved. Industrial and central-station experience provide a valuable background for study of aircraft systems. However, too close an adherence to previous practice should not be maintained, since aircraft systems differ in many ways from those of land equipment. The need for minimum weight demands that only those features be included which fundamental considerations show to be necessary or which at least provide benefits that justify the weight involved."
"Methods are given to enable the design engineer to determine the best starting winding and the best capacitor, reactor, or resistor required to meet any specified requirements. The methods given have been in actual use by design engineers for over 12 years, and are as useful today as they were when developed. Simple circle diagrams depict graphically the principles involved in the method. Some practical observations, based on experience, are given. A calculation form, with sample calculations, is also included."
"The fundamental relations governing operation of the crossed-coil type of power-factor meter are derived for the particular measurement applications on single-phase, three-wire two-phase, three-wire three-phase, and four-wire three-phase circuits. Emphasis is placed on the usefulness of a graph of either the equilibrium equation or the torque relation in determining the scale distribution."
"The high monetary value and low insulation levels of rotating machines make it necessary to employ special protection. A rotating machine can be conceived as a transmission line with distributed constants, the essential difference being that the machine winding is wound back on itself in the form of turns, which may permit high voltage across the turn-to-turn insulation. The installation of special arresters with low and consistent spark-over characteristics will limit satisfactorily the maximum voltage that can appear across the terminals. However, capacitors also are required which, in conjunction with the inductance in the line, slope the front of the wave and thus prevent pilin up of voltage across the turns. Present methodsl1-7 of protection, on the whole, have proved quite satisfactory. However, in view of the statistical data that have been accumulated in extensive lightning investigations,8-12 the recognition of the importance of providing good grounding for the line arresters, and the appreciation of the value of the inherently low discharge voltage characteristics of the deion arrester, it has been considered desirable to study this problem further. The more important results of this study are summarized here with the viewpoint of providing a simple and straightforward basis for machine protection which affords the increased protection and saving in installation cost and material that it was found possible to achieve. Although the protection required at the machine and in the line are mutually interdependent, it is possible to resolve the suggestions for protection into the four following categories: A."
"This paper reports a rather extensive investigation made to determine the requirements for insulation clearances for aircraft electric apparatus rated up to 600 volts and intended for use at altitudes up to 65,000 feet. All the tests were conducted on the ground under simulated high-altitude conditions. Tests were made with a variety of materials, including the actual rocker ring of a high-production 28.5-volt d-c generator. A table of recommended striking distances and creepage distances to meet these conditions is given. These recommendations are compared with certain existing standards. It is shown that the clearances and spacings required for high-altitude operation cannot be checked by a sea-level dielectric test without injuring the solid insulation, unless the tests are made in a partial vacuum."
"The current rating of a cable is determined by its surroundings in addition to its inherent characteristics. The cable may be exposed in air, drawn into a conduit in the air, buried directly in the ground, or drawn into a duct in the ground. Correction factors for the rating of a single cable in air or when installed in a conduit have been estimated theoretically, but lack of confirmatory data made assumed values of doubtful accuracy. research on the effect of mutual heating of a group of conduits for different numbers of conduits and various geometric groupings. The authors report on research carried out by the Electrical Testing Laboratories under the supervision of a committee from the Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association (IPCEA) with certain supplemental data from the laboratories of one of the subscribing companies. The research consisted of taking oneand four-inch standard conduits in groups of 1, 3, 6, and 9 with standard spacing between conduits, inserting in each conduit a twisted pair of number 19 American wire-gauge hotbed heater wires, and applying various amounts of heat (watts per foot) to obtain a curve of temperature rise of the conduit above ambient temperature. As it is important to know the effect on the heat dissipating properties of the conduits when conduits are installed close to a wall, near ceilings, or in completely covered runways, tests were made with conduits freely open to the air, with barriers of paper board about fourfeet high, spaced about two feet from the conduit, and with barrier and covers, the latter about two feet above the conduits. These three conditions simulated free dissipation of heat, side restriction but vertical dissipation, and an enclosure restricting heat dissipation. Details as to the test methods, taken from the report of the ETL are reported."
"When a transformer is energized, a transient current, known as magnetizing inrush current, generally flows for a short period of time until normal flux conditions are established. Under most practical system conditions, this current transient is of little consequence. However, in very rare cases a combination of circumstances may be obtained which results in this inrush being of such consequence as to impair momentarily the proper operation of the system. Because of the numerous faetors bearing upon this general problem, an investigation has been made to determine the effects of transformer inrush currents under a wide variety of system conditions. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the mechanism by which inrush currents are produced, the results of tests and calculations, and studies made with the miniature-system analyzer. Factors that determine the significance, of inrush current from the standpoint of system operation and methods for reducing the inrush current or mitigating its effects are also discussed."
"During the microsecond period in which an interrupter is performing the act of changing from a conductor to an insulator (termed interruption) the current, voltage, and arc resistance undergo variations which materially affect the performance characteristics of the interrupter. The nature of these variations depends upon the medium of interruption design features of the interrupter, and the constants of the current and recovery-voltage circuits. Modern power interrupters employing air present variations in the current-zero region of an entirely different type from that observed in the fluid interrupters. A knowledge of the nature and cause of these variations is becoming of more importance from a design performance and application viewpoint. The rapidly varying resistances within the interrupter during the process of interruption have always presented obstacles to the analyst. In reapproaching this problem on the basis of an orderly, yet practical, variation of circuit current in the region of current zero and allowing the parameter of resistance to become secondary, the problem reduces to one of linear constants and can be solved by standard methods. This paper presents such a treatment. It is generalized in such a way as to include all practical types of current-zero phenomena generally encountered. Recovery-voltage characteristics are literally fabricated from \"standard building blocks\" of which relatively few are required. The method is flexible enough to be applied to any assumed current variation in the region of current zero. The analysis is presented in terms of the accepted nomenclature of circuit theory. The operational attack is employed."
"In the field of transportation of petroleum and its products by pipe line, the 24-inch and 20-inch lines, built by War Emergency Pipelines, Inc., from Texas to the Middle Atlantic Coast as emergency war projects, rank as world record breakers. The 24-inch line for crude oil is the largest ever built, and pipe-liners have picturesquely named it the Big Inch. The 20-inch products line is the largest for refined products and the longest line in existence, and is called the Little Big Inch. All pumping stations on both of these lines are operated by electric power, and in its application a number of interesting engineering problems developed. Results of the consideration given to these problems to meet successfully the anticipated operating conditions are given in this paper, and may be grouped as covering 1. Adequate protection of main pump motors and their circuits when supplied with power through transformers having various connections. 2. Use of capacitors for maintaining voltage on ``soft'' power systems, and their proper switching for optimum effect. 3. Power-utilization-equipment performance obtained as the result of emergency engineering under war conditions."
"With transmission voltages of long and heavy trunk lines having exceeded, in the case of the Boulder Dam line, the popular 230-kv voltage, it appears in order to investigate the cost of lines at a still higher voltage, particularly since the design and manufacture of the 345-kv equipment do not seem to present special difficulties. The study undertaken endeavors to find the economic relationship between voltage, block of power, and distance for the transmission of various blocks of power over distances up to 500 miles. The systems studied are made stable in the transient state by equipping them with devices which increase their transient-stability limit. The prices of equipment are those which were in force immediately prior to the outbreak of the second World War, and the costs of various system parts, as installed on foundations, have been obtained from the study of numerous actual construction projects in different parts of the country and reduced to the 1938-39 cost level. The system capital and annual costs are analyzed. The quantities of major equipment items in each system are given either by number or by weight, and the costs of major equipment groups and of items within a group are represented on a percentage basis. This representation permits the estimation of the cost of a transmission project based on cost of equipment and copper and steel prices other than those taken in the study. The cost of stability improvement is calculated, and this expenditure proves to be amply justified."
"Controlled rectifiers employing gaseous discharge tubes are used more and more frequently in the industrial field owing to the ease of control of the output voltage and the high conversion efficiency. The voltage and current wave forms at the different parts of controlled rectifier circuits are often non-sinusoidal and discontinuous due to the one-way valve-acton of the rectifying elements. This paper presentsagraphical method of constructing the voltage and current wave forms based on a few well-known fundamental principles of electrical engineering. This method is presented step by step and a few typical examples are shown to illustrate its validity."
"During recent years there have occurred several cases of failures on turbogenerators which were found to be due to a singular type of deformation of the rotor windings. It is recognized that the deformation of rotor windings is due to forces set up in the windings by the interaction of centrifugal force and temperature change.1 The purpose of this paper is to discuss briefly the phenomena responsible for this type of deformation, and to show that by means of preheating of the rotor windings to a definite predeterminable winding temperature, the resulting mechanical stresses can be very materially reduced so that winding deformation is held to a minimum."
"Established principles of hydraulics are used to develop and explain fundamentals of blast-tube cooling. It is shown that the pressure-volume curves of a blast tube can be determined by flight tests, and that the pressure-volume curve of a generator can be determined in the laboratory. From the two pressure-volume curves, the air-flow through the generator in flight can be predicted, without an actual flight test on the generator. This procedure would save many flight tests, if pressure-volume curves of various blast tubes were available. It is shown that the pressure-volume curve of a blast tube can be determined by open-end and closed-end readings on the blast tube, and the complete curve can be expressed in terms of two constants readily determined from these readings. Once values of the constants are established, air-flow calculations become as simple as the application of Ohm's law. The theory also covers generators with an internal fan. A plea is made for accurate blast-tube data and for better specifications on blast cooling. A suggested form of blast-tube specification is given."
"In the rapid development and application of rectifiers to drive d-c motors, certain factors which influence the behavior of the motor may require unaccustomed consideration. The pulsating nature of currents which may be encountered introduces departures from conventional treatment of (1) heating value of the current waves, (2) stresses upon the insulation and commutator resulting from high peaks of voltage involved, and (3) torque pulsations tending to produce vibration and noise. Analysis is made from experimental and theoretical approaches of possible ratios of the heating values to be expected with typical wave shapes applied to electronically driven motors. The ratio of effective to average values of current varies with the load on the machine and with the number of tubes used in the rectification process. It is shown that the problem is most acute in machines of small rating where mechanical inertia is low and where tube capacities would permit the use of but one or two tubes for economy of materials. This situation may require ``overmotoring'' an application in order to allow the required thermal capacity. Vibrations which will otherwise show up in undesirable effects on the driven machine, and noise, would also dictate the use of larger machines than necessary with conventional d-c practice. The conclusion is drawn that factors not at first apparent must be considered in the application of the rectifier drive, and that as many phases as practicable are desirable in the rectifier."
"A means of reflecting a singlephase load so it appears as a balanced three-phase load to the power supply is discussed in this paper. A balancer of this type, designed for use in aircraft, is described and its characteristics discussed."
"Vibration protection becomes desirable for rotating machinery when it is operated with certain defects. Electric generators may be operated with a single ``ground'' on the rotating field circuit without harm but the potential hazards of a second ``ground'' at another point on the same circuit are so great that the need of protective equipment for automatic disconnection of the generator is evident. Double ``grounds'' on a rotating field circuit may short-circuit a large part of the winding, unbalance the magnetic field, and set up vibrations of such serious magnitudes that the machine may be wrecked. A method for obtaining satisfactory vibration protection for rotating machines has been developed. It uses equipment most of which is already on hand or readily available to most companies operating important machinery. The only part requiring construction is an electronic amplifier. The equipment, its operating characteristics, wiring, and performance are described in this paper. The described protective equipment has been in service on one machine since the latter part of 1942. It has given entirely satisfactory service. Another machine was protected in a similar manner for about three months until it was found convenient to rewind the field."
"Results of measurements are presented of fundamental electrical constants of a 270-mile 154-ky transmission line. Comparisons are made between values obtained from test and those obtained from circuit dimensions and computations, thus providing a check on some conventional methods of determining basic line impedance and admittance units. Included are unit resistance, inductive reactance, and capacitive susceptance together with ABCD constants and charactertistic impedance of positive-phase sequence, zero-phase sequence, and one-conductor-and-ground long-line networks."
"This compressed-air mechanism has been developed to answer the requirements of a simple and reliable stored-energy mechanism. By arranging this mechanism to be pneumatically trip-free, it has been possible to get the high-speed operations required of modern oil circuit breakers. The mechanism has been tested under severe operating conditions to insure trouble-free performance. Timetravel curves show satisfactory characteristics for closing, tripping, trip-free, and instantaneous reclosing operations. The absence of synchronized mechanical motions and critical mechanical adjustments contributes to a reduction in maintenance and will add to reliable operation."
"1. Voltage transients encountered in primary circuits of furnace transformers have characteristics similar to those of ordinary power-system voltage transients, except that of frequency of occurrence. Primary-circuit transient overvoltages in arc-furnace installations occur during the melting-down operation and at the time of opening or closing the furnace breaker. The highest magnitudes appear to be associated with breaker opening operations. Accordingly, there are more transients in furnace transformer circuits over a given period of time, because furnace breakers operate 40 to 50 times per day compared to a few times a year for the general use of circuit breakers. 2. Insulation levels recommended for general use in power installations also appear to be satisfactory for most furnace installatiors. For some devices, however, there are wide variations of the insulation level for the same voltage rating, and in those cases where the operating voltage approaches the ``voltage class,'' it may be desirable to use apparatus of a higher actual insulation level as compared to the rating or to apply suitable protective equipment such as capacitors and lightning arresters. 3. There does not appear to be any functional relationship between either furnace size or primary voltage and the number and magnitude of transients on a times normal basis. 4. The magnitude of secondary transients suggests that they originate from current discontinuities in the secondary circuit. 5. This report does not cover internal transformer voltages. 6."
"The performance of a multiratio current transformer is most simply represented as a function among the admittance vector locus of the core for one turn, the secondary-turn number N, and the secondary impedance Z. If the ratio of N2/Z is used as a variable, extremely simple application charts for ratio correction factor in relation to primary currents result. The ratio N2/Z furthermore is basic in the matching of transformers and burdens for maximum volt-ampere output at given primary current. Methods for computing the optimum volt-ampere output are given, and a chart is derived from which all data for a correct matching can be obtained at once. The usefulness of these methods is explained in connection with various examples such as applied to relaying circuits commonly used."
"The trolley coach is one of the newer vehicles used in urban transportation. In 1943 trolley coaches carried 8.7 per cent of all passengers on the transit lines of all United States cities having a population between 50,000 and 1,000,000, although trolley coaches are only 6.6 per cent of the vehicles. This paper points out the features of trolley-coach operation which fit it for a wide variety of service conditions. Results of trolley-coach operation in increasing gross revenues are given. The various developments which have contributed to low transportation expense are outlined. Comparisons of trolley-coach, streetcar, and motorbus operating expenses are included. Further progress in trolley-coach design, which can be expected to follow the war, will enhance the trolley coach's economic position."
"The ever-increasing list of electric equipment needed for the satisfactory performance of the modern airplane has brought the electric system from a place of relative unimportance to one which cannot be ignored. The electric equipment must not fail, particularly on combat planes. Therefore, the protective devices must be designed and applied to permit the equipment to function as long as it can supply any useful work but to remove it from the circuit when it has ceased to function or has become a hazard. This type of electrical protection is obtainable with fuses of special design when applied properly."
"The electronic power converter, controlled by the equipment described in this paper, consists of two units rated 10,000 kw installed and operating at the Edgar Thomson Works of the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation. The power converters connect a 60-cycle 69-kv system and a 25-cycle 44-kv system with a permissible power transfer of 20,000 kw in either direction between the systems. Transfer of power by rectification and inversion and the design of the electronic power converter are discussed in companion papers.1,2 The switchgear and control devices are discussed in this paper and for convenience and clarity, the discussion is divided into three main headings: ``Switching,'' ``Control,'' and ``Protection.''"
"The definite-pickup. type of generator control relay has been in use for a period of years on d-c aircraft electrical systems. While this type of generator control relay gives satisfactory operation when the system is in proper adjustment, it had disadvantages which are accentuated by improper adjustments of regulators and the relays. A differential type of generator control relay not subject to chatter has been developed and tested in flight on a system having four main-engine-driven generators and an auxiliary power plant. This type of relay has been shown practical and advantageous when used on a system having voltage regulators with equalizers."
"Presents a paper on fusing practices on distribution operating at five kilovolts and below."
"With the increased use of arc furnaces in the production of alloy steel, new interest has been aroused in both old and new methods of automatic regulation of electrode position. The regulator described in this paper is an electronic type which controls electrode position as determined by response to current in the electrode and voltage between the electrode and the furnace shell. Features and performance of an installation for a furnace having hydraulic control are illustrated."
"In the treatment of the over-all behavior of a smooth transmission line, or uniform ladder network, one frequently wishes to deal with the commonly termed A-B-C-D parameters rather than the propagation function, to which the former are related by hyperbolic functions, and the characteristic impedances. However, the latter are the functions which are simply related to the network components. The A-B-C-D parameters may be given as powerseries expansions of the variable α, where α2= ZTYT and ZT and YT are the respective total series impedance and shunt admittance. For the smooth line these are infinite series; but they are terminating series for the ladder network, the number of terms and the coefficients of the terms being functions of the number (M) of elementary π or T sections of which the network is composed. Formulas for these coefficients are developed and they are given in several alternate forms. Also included are recurrence formulas and some relations among the coefficients of the different parameters. One form for the coefficients is particularly interesting because it shows that each coefficient for the ladder network is the corresponding smoothline coefficient multiplied by a polynomial consisting of unity plus a polynomial in nonzero powers of 1/M2. This puts in evidence the manner in which the two coefficients approach each other as M increases; and also leads to easily computable upper and lower bounds of the ladder-network coefficients, which may provide useful estimates of their magnitudes."
"Use of a-c power systems on aircraft presents the problem of providing switching means. Contactors with the desired characteristics and suitable size and weight have not been available. Analysis of operating conditions, contactor size requirements, and performance characteristics provide a basis of design of a group of contactors to meet the needs of present and projected aircraft. These designs can meet aircraft size limitations and be capable of handling the circuits under all foreseen normal and emergency requirements."
"Heat pumps are refrigerating systems in which the principal interest is in the heat given off by the condenser. A portion of this comes from the electric input to the compressor and the remainder from cooling an external source of heat, usually outdoor air. Heat output is several times the equivalent of electric input, and these systems offer possibilities of fuel economy beyond anything. possible with fuel-burning equipment. These systems can be used for all-year air conditioning, but the heat requirement dictates larger equipment than necessary for cooling only. Electric-load requirements are attractive, but further development is necessary and will be dependent on the promotion of summer air conditioning for homes."
"Experience obtained with present multiengine aircraft electrical systems indicates a need for preventing interchange of current between generators when the system is operating at light loads. Such current interchange causes reverse-current cutouts of conventional design to connect and disconnect their respective generators to the system so rapidly that the action is called ``chatter.'' Conventional cutouts connect the generator to the system when the generator voltage is above a pre-set value. The differential-voltage reverse-current cutout connects the generator to the system when the generator voltage is a pre-set value above the system voltage. A description is given on the design, operation, and advantages of a differential-voltage reverse-current cutout which prevents interchange of current between the generators."
"This paper describes a unique type of moving-magnet d-c ratio instrument. An instrument designed for temperature measurement in aircraft is described in detail."
"A discussion of recent developments in magnetic-drag-type aircraft tachometer equipment. Wartime demands for increased temperature range, instrument durability, and compactness have led to certain revisions and new design features. The results of these recent developments are outlined in this paper."
"The authors feel the term \"electronic power converter\" needs some definition. The object may be to convert power from direct current to alternating current for direct current (dc) power transmission, or to convert power from one frequency into another,or to serve as a commutator for operating an ac motor at variable speed,or for transforming high-voltage dc into low-voltage dc. It is thus evidently not the objective but the means that characterizes the electronic power converter. The emphasis is on electronic means and the term is limited to conversion of power as distinguished from electric energy for purposes of communication. Thus, the name is a definition. The authors provide a istory and evolution of the electronic converter, its use in the suppression of electronic faults and in the single-conversion frequency changer. Finally a description is given of the dc transformer and the adaptability of the electronic converter."
"Modern switchgear requires, more and more frequently, special current transformers capable of carrying very high fault currents. In the past, the application engineer and the design engineer were not always close together in their work on the current-transformer problem; the application engineer has often had only an approximate idea of what the design engineer could produce, while the design engineer has had only an approximate idea as to general application requirements. The design engineer has not had too sound a basis for many of his designs. His costs were high on account of the multiplicity of special designs. This paper discusses the basis of design of current transformers for high overcurrents, and describes the co-ordination of mechanical parts with performance requirements to produce lines of current transformers in a definite and easily understood pattern of characteristics. The result is that selection of the proper current transformer is easily accomplished. The arrangement of the line of mechanical parts and performance characteristics is such that the expense involved in manufacturing these special transformers can be considerably reduced."
"It generally is recognized that the kilowatt loading on distribution circuits or plant feeders may be increased substantially by using capacitors to supply the kilovar load and relieve the current-carrying system of this burden. The use of capacitors to boost voltage or actually to regulate voltage has increased during recent years. Automatic switching of capacitors makes it possible to obtain the benefits of adding capacitors to take care of the full load kilovars without the objection of excess capacitor kilovars at light loads. It also makes it possible not only to apply capacitors in the most effective manner from the standpoint of meeting power-factor limits established by the utility, but also to regulate voltage in the plant or on the system. Capacitors may be switched automatically by the same switching means controlling the load, or they may be switched in response to changes in circuit conditions such as voltage, current flowing, or the reactive kilovars drawn by the load. The advantages of the various types of control and the choice of the number and size of capacitor steps to be switched are discussed fully."
"Designers of electrical equipment for aircraft are confronted with many limitations. Some of these limitations may be nullified with the use of auxiliary power plants. To cover various phases of application a series of engine-generators would be necessary. A large number of their design features should be adapted to each type of airplane in order to save weight and obtain best performance. This necessitates close co-operation between designers of the component parts of the airplane."
"Flight-operations experience has shown that significant improvements in fuel economy may be obtained through the use of aircraft-engine torque instruments as regular flight instruments. This paper describes the better-known types of torque instruments and introduces a new type that has recently come through its development stage."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The 24-inch pipe line, the Big Inch, will transport 300,000 barrels of crude petroleum 1,400 miles daily from the heart of Texas oil fields to the Eastern Seaboard. The new 20-inch refined-products line is 150 miles longer and has a capacity of 235,000 barrels per day of refined products. Power supply, substations, motors, and controls of the operating equipment, as well as high lights of the construction problems are discussed in this article by an outstanding authority on electrical problems associated with oil pipe lines."
"Our engineers and laboratory workers are pointing the way toward the salvation, conservation, and replacement of critical materials needed for war production, says this industrial engineer. Through their developments the quality of American industry's products has not suffered, and many lessons that will be useful in peacetime have been learned."
"The physical metallurgy of copper and some of its alloys is of particular interest to electrical engineers, since copper is used so widely in electric apparatus. Illustrations are given in this article of certain basic metallurgical phenomena determining properties and performance of some of the more specialized alloys with particular reference to the effects of elevated temperatures."
"Because of the many vague and conflicting reports on the effect of short waves on microorganisms, the laboratory analysis reported in this article was undertaken; the author has endeavored to correlate the electrical data with medical and bacteriological data. Because of time and equipment limitations, the study shows trends in electrobiological treatment at high frequencies rather than conclusive evidence."
"A program of 30 technical sessions and conferences, including a general session, has been arranged for the AIEE winter technical meeting to be held in New York, N. Y., January 24–28, 1943. Headquarters for the meeting will be in the Engineering Societies Building. In accordance with the wartime policy adopted by the board of directors, preference has been given to papers which are of aid in the war effort."
"To maintain the technical content of Electrical Engineering at a high level and still comply with governmental restrictions on the use of paper, the trim size has been reduced to 8 1/8 by 11 1/4 inches, effective with this issue. The dimensions of the type page are being maintained essentially as before so that the net result is a more efficient use of paper through reduced page margins. In fact, minor changes were required in the feature-article and news sections to adapt those pages to the new size, which increase the amount of material per page."
"The executive committee of the Great Lakes District held its annual meeting in Chicago, Ill., November 5, 1943, with 100 per cent representation of Sections. A. G. Dewars (M '27) District vice-president, presided."
"Every American warplane built today utilizes more magnesium than its predecessor model, whereas German planes recently shot down show less magnesium than those shot down earlier in the war, explained Arthur Smith, Jr., of the Dow Chemical Company to over 200 engineers at a Milwaukee AIEE Section meeting recently."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 24–28, 1944, and are expected to be ready for distribution within the current month. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the convention registration desk."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on December 22, 1943, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Of significance to engineering employees in all fields of the profession was the action taken by the board of direction of the American Society of Civil Engineers at its recent meeting in Atlanta, Ga., when it approved and adopted a procedure for establishing collective-bargaining agencies for “professional engineering employees.”"
"A 2,060-mile communications line, linking the United States and Alaska by telegraph and telephone service along the entire length of the Alaska Military Highway, said to be the second longest carrier-communications system in the world, was completed in November 1943 and is now in operation."
"Participation by the American Standards Association in an Allied Nations Standards Body was authorized by the ASA board of directors at its silver-anniversary meeting in New York, N. Y., held in December 1943. The organization of such a body to secure maximum possible co-ordination of standards necessary for the war effort and the immediate postwar period has been discussed informally for some time between the British Standards Institution, the Canadian Engineering Standards Association, the ASA, and key governmental agencies in the three countries. It is planned that a skeleton staff will be provided for the new organization with offices in London and either New York or Washington, D. C."
"OPERATED jointly by the AIEE and the other Founder Societies, the Engineering Societies Library, 29 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., offers a wide variety of services to members all over the world. Information about these services may be obtained on inquiry to the director."
"A new electrolytic plant at Williamsport, Pa., costing in excess of $150,000 and equipped with 108 electrolytic cells, high-powered compressor machines, low-pressure and high-pressure storage tanks, and a water distillery, which will furnish hydrogen and oxygen for tube makers in the Williamsport and Towanda, Pa., factories, has just been completed by Sylvania Electric Products Inc."
"Organization of the Indoor Climate Institute, an industry-wide co-operative educational program for the improvement of heating, cooling, and air conditioning, has been announced by Paul B. Zimmerman, president. A board of directors, and advisory council, and executive officers have been elected, and headquarters have been established at Detroit, Mich."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. AH inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in the columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"In an earlier paper1 the authors reported the results of a study of the methods of artificial respiration when conscious subjects were used. In that study three methods of artificial respiration were investigated: namely, the Schafer prone-pressure method, the modified prone-pressure method, in which the hands were rolled or snapped off the subject's back, and the pole-top method.2 A total of 15 men was tested, and the volume of air moved by the three methods of artificial respiration was measured. All of these men were conscious, and the results indicated that all the methods were adequate, with the pole-top method in the lead. Although all of the subjects were intelligent and presumably capable of completely relaxed passivity, such results are always open to the criticism that the subject may have co-operated, perhaps unintentionally."
"Because the selection of aircraft warning devices has not, in most signal installations, provided the pilot with dependable warnings of dangerous conditions, this paper proposes that aircraft signal devices should be designed and installed in compliance with the pilot's requirements as expressed in three design principles."
"It is generally recognized that a professional man must have a certain amount of cultural training, in addition to the technical, so as to be better balanced, more useful to the society, and more successful; and engineering curricula generally make provision for it. However, it appears questionable whether the cultural program is as well suited to its objectives as the technical programs are to theirs. As a parent, the author had occasion to look into this matter during the past several years and was led to the conclusion that the quality of the conception and execution of the cultural training of the engineer is definitely inferior to that of his technical training."
"Although split-phase induction motors are built annually in millions of units, involving thousands of designs, little can be found in the technical literature concerning the design processes."
"A curious gap exists in the technical literature dealing with electrical-design methods. Procedures for determining performance by various analyses and for various testing methods can be found on nearly all of the more common machines. Yet the novice or the intelligently curious, interested in the field of design, finds but few references in the technical literature concerning the procedure whereby the machine dimensions were first determined and the completed design made. While it is true that a comparatively small group of engineers may be concerned with such design work, the philosophy and technique of approach could be of interest to an entire profession which is so profoundly influenced by the designer's work."
"In spite of the practically universal use of alternating current for power generation and distribution, there exists an ever-increasing demand for direct current. To obtain direct current from the available supplies of alternating current, means of rectifying the alternating current have been developed. While many types of equipment are available, three types, each supreme in its own range, are found to be in general use for heavy-duty d-c power applications. The mercury arc has proved most efficient for the higher voltages from 250 volts on up. The intermediate range from 60 volts to 250 volts is supplied by the motor generator set. In comparatively recent years the low-voltage range from 0 to 60 volts has been taken over more and more by dry-plate rectifiers."
"This paper will endeavor to show the deviations in the airplane magnetic compass caused by electromagnetic effects from the ship's wiring and will suggest some means that can be used to correct them."
"It is accepted USSR practice to carry three-phase industrial load and single-phase traction load on a single three-phase three-winding transformer. For a given combination of loads it is necessary to determine the proper capacity relationships of the three windings."
"The transportation problem of a large strip mine involves the loading, hauling, and dumping of both ore and waste. These materials are loaded with large electric shovels operating on benches along the slope of a hill or pit. The ore is transported over main-line tracks to the reduction plant, while the waste is hauled to suitable dumps. All main-line tracks are permanent and are equipped with permanent overhead distribution systems (Figure 1). All bench and dump tracks are portable and are equipped with portable overhead distribution systems."
"An arrangement of the measurement and oscillographic recording of large alternating currents, consisting of a special air-core transformer and an amplifier, is described. The air-core transformer is wound on a flexible core of small cross section, permitting its easy linkage with the current to be measured without disturbing the circuit. The underlying theory of the air-core transformer is discussed, and the modifications necessary to make it suitable for measurement purposes are described."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE WEALTH of America has been wrought from her natural resources of fertile lands, wide forests and rich mineral deposits by the brains and muscles of her people."
"Although the continent of South America is exceptionally well endowed by nature with valuable mineral resources, its deposits of coal that are of commercial value are extremely limited. Most of the deposits which exist are insufficient in quantity, poor in quality, or badly located with reference to consuming centers. The need for importing large quantities of fuel is a heavy burden on the economies and finances of most South American countries."
"The opinion prevails, not only among students and younger engineers but also among older engineers who are not familiar with the field of electric machinery, that the electric machine reached the peak of its development years ago and that no further progress is possible in this field. It will be shown in the following article that this opinion is wrong, that the improvement of the electric machine is steadily progressing, and that the development of the electric machine is far from its peak."
"As I promised in my letter of August 18, I am now writing you a further letter in regard to S 702. It is a long letter, for I have commented not only on the bill itself, but also more broadly on the general subject, in the attempt to give you my thoughts in a constructive manner. These comments apply not only to S 702 but also to its companion bill, HR 2100, which was introduced by Mr. Patman on March 5, 1943, and was referred to the House of Representatives' committee on patents."
"Mathematics should be taught to the young engineer, not as an end in itself, but as a tool to be used to gain his objectives. The ability of the young engineer to use mathematics successfully in his work rather than the extent of his actual knowledge in this field is a gauge of his usefulness to industry."
"A report on a simplified procedure for the calculation of short-circuit currents, published as “Simplified Calculation of Fault Currents” (EE, Oct. '42, pp. 509–11; and AIEE Trans., '42, pp. 1133–35), was sponsored and prepared by the AIEE committee on protective devices as one of its projects for 1940–42. The method described had been given trial use for over a year and was found to be generally satisfactory for the purpose intended."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A Public Utilities Committee has been organized to “assemble all pertinent facts and recommend such action as may be advisable concerning requirements, supplies, and production of equipment to re-establish electric, gas, and water services in liberated and former enemy areas which may be required during the relief period,” according to recent announcement by the Combined Production and Resources Board."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Simplicity and reliability have been kept foremost in generators recently developed for Diesel-electric switcher locomotives ranging from ten to 80 tons. New motors and control equipment have been developed at the same time. This paper deals especially with the generators, their electrical and mechanical features, and performance characteristics, both as power generators and as motors for engine starting from the locomotive battery. Operating fundamentally as self-excited generators, separate exciters have been eliminated. The simplicity of the generator windings has allowed corresponding simplicity of control circuits."
"The application of switching locomotives involves calculations of locomotive performance under given conditions of grade, train weight, and length of run. Such calculations can be made quickly by nomographic charts. Equipment heating limitations on Diesel-electric and electric locomotives can also be checked by elements added to the nomograms. The theory and the method of construction of such charts are described in the paper."
"Symmetrical-components concepts are developed for the currents, voltages, and impedances of a four-phase system, and formulas are given for various types of short circuits. The idea of symmetry among the members of each set is based on the angular displacement between the members of the set, rather than that of phase rotation which fits the three-phase case very nicely but is inadequate for the four-phase case."
"Early in 1942 Phelps Dodge Corporation started production of copper from their new open-pit mine and reduction plant at Morenci, Ariz. One of the earliest mining districts of the state, Morenci had produced some 900,000 tons of copper since the beginning of operations in the early 70's, largely from ores of two to three per cent copper content, mined underground."
"Anew system of electric hoist drive has been developed, and its success has been demonstrated in practical use. For the types of hoist for which it is particularly intended this system provides a closer approach to the ideal characteristics than has previously been available. Although the system is not intended for use in all of the important types of hoist, it is expected that further experience and additional study of details and refinements will broaden its field of application beyond that which has, to date, been established in practice."
"The mechanical power delivered by the motors of electrically propelled vehicles is almost always transmitted through gears to axles. The few exceptions are some gearless electric locomotives designed many years ago. Although the top speeds of vehicles and locomotives have increased materially since the inception of electric drive, the very nature of the service requires high tractive efforts in starting from standstill and at low speeds. In the case of transit vehicles, frequent stops require operation at relatively low speeds a large percentage of the time."
"The benefits that can be obtained by the use of shunt capacitors in electric power systems have been discussed many times in the technical literature. Their ability to improve voltage and power factor in the distribution areas, thereby reducing losses and postponing the need for additional circuit capacity by reducing loading on existing equipment, has been used many times where the economics have justified such use."
"The power required for the operation of an indicating instrument frequently makes its use prohibitive because of the disturbing effect it has on the circuit being measured. If the measurement is in a d-c circuit, the difficulty is overcome readily by using a d-c potentiometer. In a-c measurements, the indicating instruments have a much greater disturbing effect on the circuit, and the use of an a-c potentiometer is very desirable. Furthermore, a-c potentiometers are very useful for measuring power in circuits where the power is too small to be measured with a dynamometer wattmeter."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"More and more of our American businessmen must become interested in the necessity of doing some postwar planning, of doing it now, and of being prepared to put those plans into effect just as quickly as possible when the time comes."
"February 11 commemorated the 97th birthday of Thomas A. Edison, one of the greatest of Americans and the supreme inventive genius of the industrial age. The staggering list of hisinventions compels us to realize the extent of his contribution to the United States and to the world, not merely in our own days, but for all time to come. Already he has, through thedisciplined activity of his ideas, produced billions of dollars of new wealth."
"The AIEE'S highest honor, the Edison Medal, was awarded for 1943 to Doctor Vannevar Bush (F '24) president, Carnegie Institution of Washington (D. C.), and director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, for “his contribution to the advancement of electrical engineering, particularly through the development of new applications of mathematics to engineering problems, and for his eminent service to the Nation in guiding the war research program.”"
"If any of you, at the conclusion of my remarks, feel that I have handled the presentation of the 1943 Edison Medalist in an unconventional manner, I can only reply that Doctor Bush is a somewhat unconventional man. Further, for more than 25 years my association with him has been far from conventional."
"Thomas A. Edison exemplified an important aspect of American life. He combined, in superlative degree, resourcefulness and initiative with an intense practicality and a keen vision. The many results which he attained during his life sprouted from the blossoming of this combination of talent in an environment which was wonderfully adapted for such a growth."
"The necessity for lightweight and small-size aircraft transformers is evident, since any reduction in space and weight will result in larger capacities for fuel and bomb loads. Various types of transformers have been developed recently, such as, three-phase to single-phase, single-phase to three-phase, two-phase to three-phase, three-phase to two-phase, combination a-c to d-c transformer-rectifier self-regulated units, miniature-instrument type, and a line of general-purpose aircraft units with kilovolt-ampere ratings ranging from 100 volt-amperes to 5 kilovolt-amperes, with weights ranging from 0.8 pound to 9.5 pounds and operating at ultimate temperatures of 225 degrees centigrade. Included are vibrator-inverter transformers, voltage stabilizers, and high-voltage and low-voltage booster ignition coils."
"When a fault occurs on a long transmission line it is highly desirable to be able to determine quickly the location of the fault so that valuable time may be saved in restoring the line to service. Use is made of various devices for this purpose."
"A two-day technical meeting of the AIEE North Eastern District will be held in Boston, Mass., Wednesday, April 19, and Thursday, April 20, 1944. Meeting headquarters will be at the Hotel Statler. The committees have arranged a broad program, which has been planned to help engineers engaged in promoting the war effort. Seven technical sessions will be held on the subjects of cables, transformers and selected subjects, electronics, power transmission, air transportation, electrical machinery, and industrial power applications. In addition, a student technical session will be held, at which papers will be presented by the students."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Illinois Professional Engineering Act passed by the state legislature in 1941 and containing many of the provisions of the “model law” developed by the American Society of Civil Engineers and other societies was declared unconstitutional by Judge Victor Hemphill in the Circuit Court of Sangamon County, Ill., on November 23, 1943. The case is under appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court and hearing has been set for the March 1944 term."
"The biplane marker and reorientation device, a field-hospital X ray, which localizes slugs and fragments in wounded men in two planes, vertical and horizontal, and makes it possible for surgery to be performed without moving the patient, has been designed by engineers of Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, according to announcement by Colonel Alfred A. de Lorimier, commandant of the Army's school of roentgenology. The device not only locates foreign bodies but marks the wounded man with iodine to guide the surgeon in making an accurate incision."
"War and postwar problems will keynote the seventh annual Midwest Power Conference, arranged by Illinois Institute of Technology, which will be held April 13 and 14 at the Palmer House, Chicago, Ill., according to announcement by Stanton E. Winston, acting head of the mechanical-engineering department at Illinois Institute and director of the conference."
"Organization of the Stevens Research Foundation, a nonprofit corporation to carry on scientific and industrial research in cooperation with Stevens Institute of Technology, was announced recently by Harvey N. Davis, president of the college. The stipulated purposes of the Foundation are to test and develop the public, scientific, and commercial value of inventions, discoveries, and processes and to aid in obtaining patents."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly under-stood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"There has recently been placed in commercial service in the Bell System a new arrangement of telephone-switching equipment designed to enable telephone users in a metropolitan area to dial for themselves their calls to nearby points instead of placing them with an operator. This added central-office equipment has the distinctive feature that it automatically prepares an individual printed ticket showing the information needed for charging for the call. The initial installation serves some 8,000 subscribers at Culver City, adjoining os Angeles. It enables them to dial directly, in the same way as local calls, their calls to various points within the os Angeles metropolitan area and here by enlarges the scope of their dial service, with its attendant advantages in speed and convenience."
"Discussion of fusing practices on distribution systems with numerous operating engineers gives the impression that there are almost as many practices as there are operating companies. To determine present fusing practices in this country, a questionnaire was submitted to some 200 operating companies, and replies were received from 168, indicating a real interest in this subject. The data presented here apply only to systems operating below five kilovolts and were obtained from companies located in all arts of the country. All fuse link data are given on the basis of N rated links. The small amount of data which was received involving 65 per cent rated ks has been converted to equivalent N denoting. No attempt is made to weigh — data by taking into consideration size of the operating company, as it the intention to show engineering-ought on the subject."
"In the planning of rectifier installations it is often desired to study the effect of the rectifier on co-ordination with communication systems. The telephone-influence factor1 (TIF) is used in such studies as an index to the effect of distortion of the voltage and current-wave shapes on the inductive influence. Both voltage and current TIF are involved, because there are two types of induction: 1. Electric induction which depends upon the power-circuit voltage. 2. Magnetic induction which depends upon the current."
"Almost all of the more common present-day carrier relay systems employ a feature known as ground preference which enables the ground relays, during faults involving ground current, to take preference over the phase relays in controlling the starting and stopping of the carrier signal. The specific system conditions which require this feature are not well understood, nor is it generally understood that under certain conditions ground preference can cause trouble, or that even in some cases phase preference is “preferable.” It is the purpose of this paper to discuss, in general, the reasons for and conditions pertaining to the preference feature."
"Small panel-type electrical indicating instruments are recognized as an important component in radio, electronic, and power control equipment, which is so essential in all military and naval operations on land, in the air, and on the sea. Such instruments are required to be small, compact, light in weight, and reliable measuring devices; and one of the major factors in the realization of these requirements is the efficient utilization of improved magnetic materials for permanent magnets."
"The modern fighting airplane requires a large amount of electric power for its successful operation. The aircraft generator provides a reliable source of power at the lowest possible weight. The development of these generators has required close co ordination of design, testing, and interpretation of test results. The tests include raw material, parts, laboratory, life, mechanical, and flight tests. This paper describes tests which have been made and the interpretations which have led to improvements in d-c aircraft generators."
"Concurrent with the present development program of a 400-cycle 208-volt power supply for aircraft, it was deemed advisable to study the effect of high altitudes on the breakdown potential between various conductors at different voltage levels."
"Experience has shown that high-speed reclosing of circuit breakers on high-voltage transmission lines is of considerable value in maintaining system stability and continuity of service. This paper describes a new line of outdoor oil circuit breakers and the special design features which make them suitable for 20- and 35-cycle reclosing duty at voltages as high as 230 kv. Data are included showing high-power-laboratery short-circuit tests on these duty cycles at 138 kv and 230 kv at currents corresponding to three-phase duty of more than 2,500,000 kva."
"The urgent necessity for pooling reserve generating capacity has accentuated the importance of single tie-line interconnections equipped with high-speed reclosing breakers. In many cases faults on a single tie line between two sytems can be cleared, and the line can be reclosed with the same reliability that would be obtained if two lines were used without high-speed reclosure. Where a single tie line is used to transmit power between two systems the line must be reclosed fast enough, following a fault, so that synchronism is maintained. Further, the resultant power surges and voltage dips should not cause excessive shock to the system. A brief review of system performance during a reclosing cycle is presented to outline the factors that are involved."
"The usual rectifier unit consists of a transformer with a number of rectifying elements connected to its secondary windings. The rectifying action may be resolved into two parts, namely, the circuit action which is determined by the transformer and the a-c and d-c circuits, and the unidirectional switching action which is performed by the rectifying elements. The circuit action is defined by the number, arrangement, and constants of the circuits connecting the a-c and d-c systems. The switching action consists of connecting the various secondary windings of the transformer to the load circuit at selected intervals during each cycle by means of mercury-arc rectifiers, metallic rectifiers, vacuum tubes, and other types of rectifying elements."
"Power-line carrier has kept pace with the swift progress of the electronic art during the last several years. This progress has been due mainly to the stimulus injected by the war effort. In most of the specialized fields of electronics, the advancement was necessitated and promoted strictly for military purposes. Power-line carrier, however, was and is the soldier of the home front. Its duties have been expanded to include as many functions as possible consistent with reliability, economy, and convenience. The economic feature is especially significant now, since, during wartime emergencies, the material resources of the nation are allotted, and properly so, to those agencies concerned with the battle front. Material for new power lines, new generating equipment, new telephone lines, and for other similar programs of expansion is therefore not generally available. However, power-line carrier comes to the rescue and effectively provides additional circuits and higher power-handling capacity for existing installations."
"It is the purpose of this paper to examine various definitions of inductance based on the application in which the term is used. Comparisons are made between the definitions as a function of magnetomotive force and flux density for the special case of dynamo-grade (2.75 per cent) silicon steel. The effects of hysteresis and eddy currents are discussed. Consideration is confined to iron magnetic circuits in which no air gap exists, so that practical applications of conclusions drawn are limited somewhat."
"In the development of the five-kilovolt Magne-Blast air circuit breaker, it was shown that rapidly increased arc resistance was extremely effective in circuit interruption. This paper describes an extension of that principle in the development of a Magne-Blast circuit breaker for 15-kv services with an interrupting rating of 250,000 kva. The higher electrical resistance of the arc necessary for this voltage has been made possible by an increase in the thermal efficiency of the interleaving arc chute. The arc chute which provides this greater efficiency is discussed in some detail. The design of the breaker is described briefly as well as its application to metal-clad switchgear. Test data and representative oscillograms are submitted to substantiate the interrupting rating assigned to this breaker."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Air passenger traffic will increase five times and air cargo 30 times by 1950, predicts this authority in the field of air traffic control. He indicates that further advancement and comprehensive planning are needed if air traffic control is not to hamper the future development of air transportation."
"LIGHT is usually produced through the process of either incandescence (which for this general discussion may be taken to include combustion) or luminescence. Sources brought to a glowing temperature of incandescence are usually accompanied by infrared or heat radiation and very little ultraviolet radiation. Those that produce light through the process generally characterized as luminescence are electronic devices that may produce a good deal of ultraviolet as well as infrared radiation. Generally speaking, incandescent sources provide continuous spectra, whereas luminescent sources provide line or band spectra. Indications of several responses to radiation in the ultraviolet, visible, and infrared regions are set forth in Figure 1."
"AMERICAN engineers have been instrumental in giving to the United States Army and to the Signal Corps of the Army the best equipment in the world. Although engineering for civilian needs is very different from engineering for military needs, and most American engineers have spent a lifetime in civilian engineering, they have learned within a brief period of two or three years to design equipment to meet military needs and are now, in fact, military engineers."
"Arrangements now are being made for the summer technical meeting of the AIEE to be held in St. Louis, Mo., June 26–30, 1944. Meeting headquarters will be in the Hotel Jefferson, which has ample meeting room facilities including some air conditioned rooms. The annual meeting of the Institute will be held on Monday, June 26."
"Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., nonprofit organization established in 1894 by the National Board of Fire Underwriters as the official testing station of the capital-stock fire-insurance business, celebrated in February the anniversary of its first 50 years of public service. From its modest beginning above a fire-patrol station in Chicago, Ill., as a one-engineer one-room office with only $350 worth of electrical equipment, it has developed into a national concern with four testing stations in major industrial sections of the United States. Today its central station in Chicago comprises approximately 130,000 square feet of floor area, and is said to be one of the best examples of fire-resistive construction in this country."
"THE American Standard “Guides for Operation of Transformers and Regulators” C57.3, 1942 and the interim reports on overloading (references 21 and 24) give information which covers many of the overloading conditions encountered with transformers. These rules, however, do not cover every situation. In order to help fill this lack, charts have been prepared which will enable the safety of practically any special case of loading to be determined."
"IN evaluating an electric switching device, its following characteristics must be considered: 1. Ability to close the circuit without undue deterioration of contacting points. 2. Ability to carry the current without injurious temperature rise. 3. Ability to interrupt the circuit with the least destruction of contacting members."
"IN order to meet the requirements for a fuse of small size with current-limiting characteristics for connecting light loads and small apparatus to high power systems, a new form of current-limiting fuse was developed and announced in 1940. Three distinct elements characterized this fuse."
"THE AIEE transformer subcommittee1 has recommended higher overloads than those given in the ASA Guides for operation of transformers. These overloads are set up on the assumption that, under rare emergency conditions, it is better to use up a small amount of the expected life of the transformer than to have an interruption of service. Therefore, as a result of the work of the AIEE and the ASA, a demand is developing for a relay that will close its contacts when the limiting load condition is reached."
"THE conditions in lumped circuits of this type have been investigated previously.1 However, these earlier investigations were based mainly on the assumption of ideal capacitors, that is, capacitors which do not leak. Such capacitors are not available. Actual experiments must always be carried out with capacitors which do leak; therefore an investigation of the errors caused by leaking capacitors is appropriate and should prove useful to the electrical engineer, because of the importance of network problems in general."
"INTEREST in d-c machines in many phases of the war effort prompts the writers to present a method of design which has been found to be very useful and time saving. The method makes use of fundamental relationships in somewhat different forms and approaches the design from a different viewpoint than is ordinarily the case. The procedure has been in use for some time in the design of low-voltage aircraft motors and normal-voltage integral horsepower motors and generators. Comparative design and test results have shown good agreement."
"A GREAT many of the mechanized operations carried on in the industrial field call for a reversal of the mechanism by its motive power which is commonly an electric motor. In nearly all cases this reversal must not impose a severe strain on the mechanism nor demand an excessive overload from the power lines. In many of these reversing drives, particularly where they are of a cyclic nature, the reversal time is lost time and must be kept to a minimum consistent with the rating of the motor. Many of these drives call for the flexibility of the d-c motor. The d-c motors are supplied commonly from either a d-c shop bus or a motor generator set. However, an increasing number of d-c-motor applications are using the thyratron-tube rectifier to give a wide range of control, including a fast and smooth reversal."
"THE purpose of this paper is to outline a simple procedure that may be used to obtain short-circuit data most generally needed for relay co-ordination studies by using a d-c calculating table."
"CORONA in an electric system consists of minute arcs which produce ozone and nitrous acid in air; they carbonize oil, paper, and cotton; they oxidize and age rubber, and they corrode metal. Corona at operating voltages has often caused the rapid deterioration of the electric equipment containing the corona. In addition, high-frequency radiation is produced which may interfere with radio and allied instruments. For these reasons engineers working in the design and development of electric equipment should know the voltage at which corona first appears in that equipment."
"SERVO mechanisms or follow-up systems are used in many recording and control devices to amplify small fores or torques so that the motion of a heavily loaded output mechanism will correspond closely to the motion of a very low torque input element.1–3"
"IT is generally accepted that the correct performance of the electric system is vital to the effective use of an airplane. Electric-wiring faults, such as short circuits resulting from gunfire or other causes, may result in faulty control or fire hazard. Experience has shown that on the commonly used 28.5-volt d-c systems such short circuits are often self-clearing, and serious consequences do not result. However, this is not always the case, and it is possible that a significant number of airplanes have not returned from the combat area because of damage to the electrical system. Accordingly, it was felt advisable to investigate the conditions under which faults may be expected to clear and to determine the magnitude of current and length of time required to cause serious damage to the aircraft structure when a short circuit occurs. It should be recognized that, in practice, where circuit protection is used the fault duration and damage may be limited by this protective equipment which would remove the faulty circuit from the system. Such protection was not used in the tests as they were intended to show the effects of short circuit where system protection was not involved. Circuit protection is discussed in a companion paper.1"
"GYROSCOPIC instruments are given a place of prominence on the instrument panels of military and commercial aircraft. They are among the “most used” of all the instruments and are necessary for blind flight since they serve as stable references in space when natural objects are not visible. This group consists of a gyro horizon, showing the attitude of the aircraft — that is, whether or not it is in level flight; a directional gyro, which shows departure from course; and a bank and turn indicator, indicating rate of turn."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"IT IS not the purpose of this article to deal with any specific branch of electrical engineering or science, nor to present a detailed discussion of types of improvement in equipment design, since these various fields of activity will be covered adequately by specialists in later articles in this series. Rather I wish to draw a general picture of what we may hope will happen in the future."
"THERE ARE many conceivable future uses of the gas turbine, because it potentially promises higher efficiency at very high temperatures than most engines and prime movers used today. Future applications range from electric-power generation to power plants for propelling airplanes, trains, and ships."
"THE COMPLETE electric system of a modern peacetime cargo vessel must comply with the rules of the United States Coast Guard Merchant Marine Inspection Service (formerly the Bureau of Marine Inspection and Navigation), the American Bureau of Shipping, AIEE Standard 45, and Senate Report 184. It also must meet the requirements of the United States Public Health Service in regard to ratproofing. The typical modern cargo vessel described in this article is a hypothetical turbine-propelled vessel of about 450 feet in length and 9,500 tons deadweight."
"ELECTRONIC apparatus and equipment using elec tronic circuits in their operation cycle are so numerous in metallurgical work that any attempt to discuss each application, even briefly, is not possible in any article of reasonable length. Without attempting to cover the field completely, the following list of general applications will give some idea of their extent:"
"A very successful wartime technical meeting of the AIEE North Eastern District was held in Boston, Mass., April 19 and 20, 1944, with headquarters in the Hotel Statler. Eight technical sessions and a special session to observe the AIEE 60th anniversary were held during the two days of the meeting, which was preceded by the tri-Sectional technical-paper competition among the Lynn, Pittsfield, and Schenectady Sections on the evening of Tuesday, April 18. Many of the presentations illustrated the electrical engineer's contribution to the war effort in a wide variety of specialized fields. The total attendance was approximately 630, which is appreciably higher than attendance figures for North Eastern District meetings in the past ten years and probably an all-time high for a North Eastern District meeting."
"The pooling of scientific and technical information and of patent rights accomplished by means of the British-American Patent Interchange Agreement effective January 1, 1942, particularly has benefited aircraft, radio, and ordnance production according to a recent statement of the War Department."
"THE recently completed Fort Peck power plant with its substation and transmission facilities has several features which are unique and of particular interest. This paper will point out application problems and their solution in connection with power transmission and relaying."
"STEADY-STATE stability of synchronous machines is an old subject, and the fact that voltage regulators may on occasion increase the stability limit is more or less well known.1 The present paper, however, aims to contribute to the knowledge of the subject by:"
"TECHNICAL progress creates a need for tools which are capable of analyzing physical phenomena more accurately and rapidly. Electric calculating devices (d-c calculating boards, a-c network analyzers, and transient analyzers) represent significant attainments in fulfilling this growing need."
"BECAUSE of the wartime problems of increased loads and shortage of materials, it is often necessary to put heavy loads on existing transmission lines rather than build new ones."
"ALTITUDE is accompanied by a lowering of the air density, and, accordingly, it affects the performance of electrical apparatuses which depend on the air for operation. Thermal performance is affected because of the reduced heat dissipated by convection. Similarly the dielectric strength suffers a decrease with lower air density. The windage losses of machines and damping of instruments are less, but, in either case, the amount is not of consequence. At very high altitudes commutation may present a major problem and storage batteries become affected adversely. The interrupting capacity of some circuit-interrupting devices is also affected, the amount depending on various conditions. These are well-known instances where altitude is a factor in the operation of electrical apparatus."
"WITH the advent of the first 15-kv power air circuit breakers for central station service in 1929,1,2 it was soon recognized that an air circuit breaker was much more desirable for highly repetitive steel-mill motor switching than was the conventional equipment universally used at that time. Interrupting tests showed that the air circuit breaker could withstand many operations on considerable power without requiring maintenance, as compared to the high maintenance necessary on oil switching equipment of that period. This was somewhat to be expected in view of the fact that low-voltage air circuit breakers and contactors had demonstrated this ability for years. It was also believed that the air circuit breaker was highly desirable for steel-mill-substation service because of the additional severity of steel-mill operating conditions, as compared to the duty on corresponding equipment in central-station service."
"THE shaded-pole motor is quite simple to construct; but for all but the smallest sizes, losses are large; and if distributed windings are used, its construction becomes more complicated. A single-phase induction motor may be given starting torque by varying the rotor constants over the pole face, either by asymmetrical iron structure or winding. Starting torque is comparable with that of a shaded-pole motor, and construction is very simple with nothing to get out of order. The chief drawback appears to be the smaller power factor which is due to reduced mutual inductance."
"SOME 10 or 12 years ago effective lightning protection began to be applied to transmission lines, and, about the same time, an inexpensive measuring device (the surge-crest ammeter) was developed.1 On one transmission system this low-cost device has been applied to every structure in entire lines and has produced definite numerical evidence of the performance of the protection provided."
"WARTIME EXPANSION of the Pacific Coast shipbuilding industry has accentuated the need for new steel-producing facilities in the West. Moreover, rich deposits of iron ore, coal, and limestone — the raw materials required to produce steel — are close at hand in the central inland section of the western states."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Special forecasts for electric-power companies and wider dissemination and more effective use of these forecasts are advocated in this article. Effects of glaze storms, lightning, hurricanes, magnetic storms, fog, flood, precipitation, and high and low temperatures on electric service are discussed."
"Freedom of opportunity, inherent in the makings of the United States has fostered research and invention. Research methods which through industry have provided us with the highest material living standard of any country in the world, conserved our resources, and helped insure our national future, should be applied equally to the fields of political economy and jurisprudence, urges this author."
"A pioneer in the application of radio to aviation and long closely concerned with radio as a factor in building and operating airways in the United States, the author reviews the latest applications of radio to the operation of commercial air lines in this article, and predicts a great need for lowcost radio equipment in the many privately operated airplanes that may be expected in postwar years."
"This article, second in a series discussing the general subject, is devoted to determining the probable part the engineer will play in the postwar world. As in the past, the engineer is expected to expand and apply knowledge for the benefit of all. Beyond this, however, is the question of the control by the engineer of the uses to which his products may be put, in order to insure that they are used for good and not for evil. Because of his knowledge, professional position, and the strength of engineering societies, the engineer should take an active part in guidance toward a wholesome life."
"This portable spot welder has halved the time and the number of operations necessary for assembling B-26 bomb-bay doors by the Glenn L. Martin Company. The skin, frames, and stiffeners for the doors are assembled in a fixture to be tack-welded with the portable spot welder and the entire assembly then is carried to a floor-type spot welder. The portable welder consists of a spot weld machine and transformer counterbalanced on a small beam pivoting from an overhead trolley which travels along a 50-foot I beam. The trolley is propelled by sprocket and chain powered by a one-third-horsepower electric motor. A 200-kva welding machine with a capacity of two thicknesses of 0.040-inch aluminum is used."
"The tentative program arranged for the AIEE summer technical meeting to be held in St. Louis, Mo., June 26–30, 1944, will be the largest technical program in the history of the Institute. This makes the meeting a fitting occasion to commemorate three important anniversaries in the electrical field — the 60th anniversary of the AIEE, the 100th anniversary of the Morse telegraph, and the 40th anniversary of the International Electrical Congress, which met in St. Louis in 1904. The program is comprised of approximately 89 technical papers and 31 conference papers to be presented in 28 technical sessions and conferences, in almost as many specialized fields of activity. The 28 sessions and conferences are in addition to the annual meeting, which will take place Monday morning, June 26; the conference of officers, delegates, and members, which will be held Monday and Tuesday afternoons; and the general session on Wednesday morning. Meeting headquarters will be in the Hotel Jefferson, which has good facilities with some air-conditioned meeting rooms."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following constitutes the annual report on Institute Section and Branch activities for the fiscal year which ended April 30, 1944. Similar information for three preceding fiscal years appeared in Electrical Engineering in June 1943, pages 264–5; June 1942, pages 322–3; June 1941, pages 285–7."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A technical-translations clearinghouse has been organized recently to supply a focal service for photoprinted copies of articles translated from foreign scientific journals or periodicals. It is being operated as an extension of the auxiliary publication service of the American Documentation Institute with the co-operation of the Office of Alien Property Custodian."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are arailable at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"THE multigenerator aircraft d-c electric system represents an important type which has proved its practicability under military-combat conditions. Proper parallel operation is maintained during extreme conditions of unequal generator speeds and accelerations by using an old but heretofore little-used method, which was first suggested and demonstrated for this application by L. W. Thompson. The successful parallel operation, therefore — the reliability and flexibility of the electric-supply system — is made possible chiefly by the use of voltage regulators, which provide for load division as well as voltage constancy. It was natural that difficulties initially experienced in service were not always clearly understood, and that the equipment and installation in the early stages did not have characteristics which would allow the system to operate with its greatest capabilities.1 However, with experience and study the causes of these difficulties were determined and remedial measures taken. These changes, although only minor individually, when put into effect collectively, made for a considerable improvement in system performance. The result has been a more reliable system requiring less attention from the crew — a factor of paramount importance for a military plane. This improved reliability in turn contributes to the assignment of more functions to the electric system."
"HEAT can be generated in a piece of metal or other conducting material by wrapping a coil around the piece, such as the cylinder shown in Figure 1, and causing a current of suitable magnitude and frequency to flow into the coil. This is called “induction heating.” The great advantage of this type of heating is that the heating can be accomplished without contacting the piece to be heated. This allows the heating to take place while the piece is moving or enclosed in a protective atmosphere. Also, the heat usually can be concentrated just where it is needed, and a piece usually can be heated faster by induction than by any other method. The desirable frequency to use for induction heating depends on the size and the electrical properties of the piece to be heated and may vary from 25 or 60 cycles per second for heating joints in iron pipes to a few million cycles per second for heating very small nonmagnetic pieces for soldering. Frequencies up to 10,000 cycles per second are obtained usually from rotating machines; for higher frequencies one must resort to spark or vacuum-tube oscillators."
"Considerations involved in selecting electric systems for large aircraft. Such systems pre undergoing intensive development now; Consequently it is not possible to give complete answers to all problems which arise. JAlso, certain parts of the electric systems are subject to military classification and cannot be discussed. Nevertheless it is felt that many engineers, particularly those engaged in the design of such systems, will welcome a brief review of the basic factors involved. Industrial and central-station experience provide a valuable background for study of aircraft systems. However, too close an adherence to previous practice should not be maintained, since aircraft systems differ in many ways from those of land equipment. The need for minimum weight demands that only those features be included which fundamental considerations show to be necessary or which at least provide benefits that justify the weight involved."
"Methods are given to enable the design engineer to determine the best starting winding and the best capacitor, reactor, or resistor required to meet any specified requirements. The methods given have been in actual use by design engineers for over 12 years, and are as useful today as they were when developed. Simple circle diagrams depict graphically the principles involved in the method. Some practical observations, based on experience, are given. A calculation form, with sample calculations, is also included."
"The fundamental relations governing operation of the crossed-coil type of power-factor meter are derived for the particular measurement applications on single-phase, three-wire two-phase, threewire three-phase, and four-wire three-phase circuits. Emphasis is placed on the usefulness of a graph of either the equilibrium equation or the torque relation in determining the scale distribution."
"IN AUGUST of 1943 a new mechanical toll switching system was placed in service in Philadelphia. It was designed by engineers of the Bell Telephone Laboratories and of the department of operation and engineering of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company for large toll centers, particularly those where most of the offices are of the panel and crossbar types. The Philadelphia installation was planned before the war. Even then it was apparent that a mechanical switching system was needed urgently to secure faster and more economical switching. War conditions produced an abnormal growth in toll traffic that accentuated the need for the new equipment. The system was therefore installed as rapidly as the heavy load of war work on the engineering and manufacturing organizations of the Bell System would permit. It is now contributing materially to the war effort by providing adequate switching facilities for the increased volume of traffic."
"DETERMINATION of the voltage drop at the terminals of small generators during the starting of relatively large motors has long been an important problem, particularly in connection with the starting of large motors on power-house auxiliary generators. Interest in this problem has been greatly accentuated by the wartime application of many small a-c generators, in fixed and mobile locations, supplying motors of ratings amounting to an appreciable fraction of the generator rating. It is essential in such applications to be able to predict accurately the maximum voltage drop in order to be sure that motor starters on the line will not drop out and that motors already running will not stall when large additional loads are started. Other types of apparatus are critical to low voltages of short duration, particularly if such low voltages recur frequently."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"FIGURE 1 lists the valve-type machine-arrester and capacitor ratings recommended for each voltage class of machine together with their method of application. It is important that the arresters at the machine be valve type. They always should be applied with capacitors that are located either reasonably close to the arresters or between the arresters and machine. This combination prevents the occurrence of steep-front surges resulting from a sudden voltage drop when the arrester discharges."
"AIRCRAFT d-c electric systems are being extended constantly in responsibility and physical size. The assignment of more important tasks to the electric system emphasizes the need for the highest order of reliability of power supply, particularly in military craft exposed to unusual hazards. The increase in electric plant capacity increases the concentration of electric power which may be un-leashed with damaging effect in the event of electric-circuit fault."
"ELECTRIC power to operate auxiliaries is now an indispensable requirement of modern aircraft. Within the past ten years the electric load on an airplane has increased more than tenfold.1 The optimum voltage for electric systems for large aircraft already has more than exceeded the present 24-volt standard,2,3 and the use of higher-voltage systems, already tried experimentally,4 now appears to be a certainty. Moreover, the operating altitudes of modern airplanes, particularly military craft, are climbing steadily to ever increasing heights. Each of these factors indicates a need for a careful study of the requirements for insulation of aircraft electric apparatus in order to achieve minimum weight and space without sacrifice of reliability. A preliminary study of this subject was made and reported5 prior to the use of the 120-volt a-c system on the XB-19, but the projected use of 208-volt systems4 for still higher altitudes makes a more comprehensive study of this problem most timely."
"THE current rating of a cable is determined by its surroundings in addition to its inherent characteristics. The cable may be exposed in air, drawn into a conduit in the air, buried directly in the ground, or drawn into a duct in the ground. It is rarely necessary to consider a single cable, that is, it is customary to install a number of cables in a group. Thus, instead of a single cable dissipating its heat to the surroundings, the problem becomes more complex because of the effect of the heat being dissipated from each cable on all of the cables in the group. Therefore, the current rating for a single cable must be modified. For cables drawn into duct systems, duct heating constants obtained from experimental data are added to the thermal resistance of a single cable.1–3 In the case of buried cables, there is a similar term added to the thermal resistance of a single cable for each additional cable. For cables in air or in conduit in air, no experimental data have been available to show the influence the grouping of the cables or the conduits have on the current rating of the cable. Correction factors for the rating of a single cable in air or when installed in a conduit have been estimated theoretically, but lack of confirmatory data made assumed values of doubtful accuracy."
"WHEN a transformer is energized, a transient current, known as magnetizing inrush current, generally flows for a short period of time until normal flux conditions are established. Under most practical system conditions, this current transient is of little consequence. However, in very rare cases a combination of circumstances may be obtained which results in this inrush being of such consequence as to impair momentarily the proper operation of the system. Because of the numerous factors bearing upon this general problem, an investigation has been made to determine the effects of transformer inrush currents under a wide variety of system conditions."
"THE final proof of the ability of an a-c circuit interrupter to sever the circuit, whether it be a circuit breaker, fuse, lightning arrester, or rectifier, is determined over the very short interval in the region of current zero. At each current zero in the arc or conducting medium the important thermal actions of the arcing or conducting period are integrated1 and pitted against the recovery-voltage transient to determine the outcome, the success of which is termed interruption. The environment of the arc, not only the medium of interruption but the nature of the adjacent circuits,2,3 plays an important role in the phenomena of circuit interruption. The arcing period, in particular, is capable of having a tremendous influence upon the current-zero phenomena.1 In addition, however, the circuit interrupter is capable of imparting changes in the normal current flow in the region of current zero which play an important part in the final outcome."
"IN the over-all design of an electrified oil pipe line, power service constitutes a major problem, not only because of its importance in the economic structure, but also because it is a problem more varied in its component parts than almost any other phase of the project. Station designs are for the most part repetitive; power-service facilities, up to the point of delivery, vary widely from station to station. In the completion of three recent major pipe-line projects, power service has been facilitated in numerous instances by capacitors; in some cases, under conditions imposed by wartime conservation of power-service materials, capacitors have been the key to successful station operation."
"PRIOR to World War II, nearly all the petroleum and products requirements of the eastern states were supplied by coastwise tankers running from the Gulf Coast of Texas to the refining areas on the coasts of New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. Very little came by pipe line and still less by tank car, as tankers provided transportation at much lower cost. With the advent of war, many of these tankers were withdrawn for overseas service, and it was necessary eventually to withdraw the remainder because of the submarine attacks along the Atlantic Coast and in the Gulf of Mexico."
"ABOUT 25 years ago when the highest transmission voltage in this country was approximately 160 kv, Silver analyzed the possibilities of 220-kv power transmission in a paper presented to the Institute.1 Since then numerous 230-kv lines have been built, and in one case a 287-kv transmission line was constructed. In the meantime the question of power supply from local and distant steam-power stations, or from distant hydro-electric stations, was quite active, and papers on this subject were written by Fortescue,2 Fowle,3 and Funk4 in this country, and by Rüdenberg5 and Vögeli6 in Europe. In every case the authors estimated the costs of transmission lines of various voltages and mileages, frequently making liberal assumptions and simplifications, especially in regard to line design and system-stability requirements. Until now, however, there has been no generally accepted view as to the economics of transmission lines at very high voltages, and particularly as to the relationship between the voltage, the block of power transmitted, and the transmission distance as these affect the total cost of the project. In view of this, and because of postwar construction projects and coming developments in the art of power transmission (such as d-c transmission), it seems appropriate that a cost study of a variety of transmission projects be made on a more or less uniform basis, with similar standards of requirements applied in all cases."
"W. R. Brownlee (Commonwealth and Southern Corporation, Jackson, Mich.): The quantitative analysis presented of the many design and application factors governing transformer magnetizing inrush currents should be most useful from the standpoints of system planning and operation, not only in connection with units employing the newer high-permeability iron but for the solution of existing problems involving transformers with conventional iron."
"C. T. Hatcher (Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., N. Y.): The authors of the paper should be complimented on obtaining and correlating data on a subject on which there has been a scarcity of actual test data."
"E. L. Armi (Leeds and Northrup Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): As stated in part IV, section 1 of the paper, it would be desirable to have theoretical curves for comparison with the experimental results obtained. Fortunately, such curves can easily be plotted for the case illustrated in Figures 13 and 14 of the paper. Carslaw1 and Byerly2 give an expression for the temperature in an infinite slab whose faces are held at fixed temperatures and which has a known temperature distribution at the time t = 0. If appropriate boundary values are used, the expression will read, in symbols of the paper under discussion:"
"A. N. Garin (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): This paper is, in my opinion, a welcome and perhaps even an overdue addition to the still rapidly growing literature of the method of symmetrical components. Although the fundamental principles and even the formulas for expressing the current and voltage vectors of a four-phase system in terms of their symmetrical components, and vice versa, have been published quite some time ago, as indicated by the references given in the paper, this, so far as I know, is the first presentation of the formulas for the fault currents."
"F. J. Maginniss (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The polarized-light servo system described by Mr. Berry is an important part of the General Electric differential analyzer discussed by Peterson and Kuehni. This analyzer has now been in service for about eight months. Among the considerations which led to the choice of this system to replace the mechanical torque amplifier, used in previous analyzer design, two may be mentioned. They are reduction of required maintenance and elimination of feedback between output shaft and integrating wheel. In both of these respects, the polarized-light servo system has shown up very favorably."
"C. N. Weygandt (Moore School of Electrical Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.): To those of us at the Moore School of Electrical Engineering who have had eight years experience in the operation of a differential analyzer, a paper on a new differential analyzer is naturally of great interest. It is also very gratifying to us that this new differential analyzer is not so very different from our own."
"C. Concordia (General Electric Company Schenectady, N. Y.): This paper is of considerable interest as it calls attention to a situation which may not be generally appreciated. I should like to make some additional points which may supplement the remarks of the authors."
"John C. Aydelott (General Electric Company, Erie, Pa.): Since the simple generator-excitation scheme described was used first by General Electric Company on gas-electric busses and was applied subsequently to industrial Diesel-electric locomotives, in all fairness it should be noted that considerable engine stalling is involved, causing considerable loss of horsepower when the generator field is cold as it often will be in slow-speed-switching service. A more complicated scheme may be justified to avoid engine stalling and to insure full engine output whenever it is called for. Such a refined scheme long has been the goal of the designers of Diesel-electric-locomotive transmission apparatus. An accurate, reliable, and economical solution is much nearer to being a reality today than at any time in the past, thanks to the high amplification and quick response characteristics of the amplidyne exciter."
"Sidney Withington (New York, New Haven, and Hartford Railroad Company, New Haven, Conn.): These two papers contain data of value in connection with a special type of railroad operation, and supplement each other very well. It would add to the interest of both papers if some mention could be made of the method used in dividing the service between electric locomotives and the Diesel equipment in operation at Morenci. It would be logical to use the Diesel locomotives where it is necessary to move the tracks and contact system frequently and where blasting debris would injure the contact system; leaving the electric equipment to operate where the power distribution can be permanently installed."
"John C. Aydelott (General Electric Company, Erie, Pa.): At a particular state of the art, and with a given arrangement of gearing, gear reduction can be increased only to a point which in railway service we know as “maximum reduction,” at which the pinion is the smallest considered to be reliable. Most railway designs are worked out on the basis of maximum reduction. By changing from single reduction to double reduction or from double reduction to triple reduction, the designer has a whole new range of possibilities involving, of course, increased complication and more expensive gearing. In some cases the best solution is to use single-reduction gearing and to put enough material in the motor to do the job. In other cases the best solution is to use double-reduction gearing and much less motor material. There is a range in which these two solutions tend to overlap to some extent. As a rule of thumb, it may be stated that double reduction is particularly useful at speeds below 35 miles per hour, and that above 35 miles per hour single reduction generally will be found preferable. As indicated by Mr. Woods, however, the trend in railway motor design is still toward higher and higher speeds."
"W. R. Brownlee (Commonwealth and Southern Corporation, Jackson, Mich.): Wartime conditions have accelerated studies of methods of securing maximum emergency capability from transmission lines. It has been practicable to build very few new lines to accompany increased loads and additional generating equipment, and the necessary pooling of power resources, including co-ordination of generating-plant maintenance schedules over wide areas, has greatly increased the duties on these lines and interconnections. It is hoped that the economy benefits of peacetime will be attractive enough to maintain an urgent desire for improved reliability of transmission connections. The emergency reliability of lines is especially important, since the avoidable opening of one or more unfaulted transmission lines along with the faulted line may result in complete separation at all other points (through instability) of entire generating plants from loads, overspeed tripping of turbine throttles, loss of station service power, and prolonged service interruptions to widespread areas."
"A. R. van C. Warrington (General Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): In addition to the ground preference troubles cited by the authors, an external ground fault has to be cleared before a simultaneous internal fault can be cleared. Furthermore, spurious residual current caused by current-transformer inaccuracy during a heavy internal phase fault can delay or prevent tripping."
"F. M. Rives (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The general idea of providing several simultaneous telegraph or signal channels by modulating a single carrier with several closely spaced audio tone frequencies has been used for many years in wire-line telegraph practice. Its first use in power-line carrier practice dates back only a few years; one of the first installations involving modern equipment of this type was described in a paper presented at the 1942 AIEE winter technical meeting.1 However, the numerous advantages of multiple-channel audio-tone systems, particularly in providing additional joint-use or simultaneous functions, have not received adequate treatment previously, and the authors of this paper are to be commended for their contribution to this subject."
"G. W. Hampe (Commonwealth Edison Company, Chicago, Ill.): Mr. Asbury has pointed out some uses of the d-c calculating board which generally are not recognized. Apparently, Mr. Asbury left the matter of reading the residual currents directly in amperes, that is, with one board milli-ampere representing, say, ten line amperes, as distinct from reading unit currents on a given kilovolt-ampere base, up to the reader's discretion. The use of unit currents is common for three-phase faults."
"V. M. Montsinger (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): I would like to ask the authors if they expect to take steps to have the results of their work incorporated in the proper AIEE Standards."
"H. K. Sels (Public Service Electric and Gas Company, Newark, N. J.): In view of present world-wide conditions, the question of overloading transformers and similar equipment has received considerable attention in the past few years. Many methods of handling the problem have been presented, of which the paper by W. C. Sealey and J. B. Hodtum covers some of the exceptional cases."
"W. C. Sealey (Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company, Milwaukee, Wis.): This paper is interesting, because it demonstrates the similarity of problems and their solutions by engineers, regardless of geographical location. Asymmetrical loading of three-phase three-winding transformer banks in which a single-phase load is superimposed on a three-phase load does not present too common a problem in the United States. However, the author solves this problem in exactly the same manner using exactly the same equations as similar problems have been solved in this country. The equations used are familiar."
"J. K. Hodnette (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, Sharon, Pa.): It has been recognized for a long time that electrical apparatus has considerable latent overload capacity and this is especially true of transformers. Transformer load factors are rarely 100 per cent and ambient temperatures are seldom continuously 40 degrees centigrade. Because of these factors, the name-plate rating of the transformer is often much less than the available capacity for carrying load on a safe thermal basis. Many papers have been presented before the AIEE in an effort to tap this huge reservoir of extra transformer capacity. The rules and guides formulated by these papers have failed to make it possible to use this extra transformer capacity in many instances because of the complexity of transformer heating cycles and the rapid variation in load, which is characteristic of most transformer installations. A properly designed thermal relay is the answer to this problem because it automatically integrates the effects of loads which vary both in duration and magnitude and of changing ambients and in a very simple manner permits operators to interpret these factors in terms of safe transformer loading."
"B. L. Vosburgh (nonmember; General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): According to Burton Opitz' physiology a full-grown man inspires and expires about 500 cubic centimeters of air with each respiratory act. This figure compares favorably with the average of the 15 subjects in the prone position, namely 545 cubic centimeters and 590 cubic centimeters for subjects A, B, and C. When anesthetized this tidal air volume dropped to 264 cubic centimeters average with the minute volume at 4,752 cubic centimeters compared to 7,670 cubic centimeters in the wakeful state which is a decrease of about 60 per cent per respiration and 30 per cent per minute volume. This remarkable difference holds for all comparisons between the conscious and anesthetized state and must mean a lessened metabolic demand in the latter. It is quite likely then that 350 to 400 cubic centimeters of air would meet adequately the anesthetized subjects needs for oxygen. Instead we note 590 for the original Schafer method, 746 for the modified Schafer, and 799 for the pole-top method. These figures represent a surplus air intake of from 60 to 100 per cent beyond metabolic requirements. This means hyper-ventilation with consequent lowering of the blood carbon dioxide, which, of course, depresses central stimulation of respiration. This effect might well tend to prolong a paralysis of respiratory function."
"H. A. Peterson and T. W. Schroeder (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The author presents a sound basis for evaluating the recovery-voltage transients for circuit interrupters in circuits having up to two natural frequencies of oscillation. The method employed rests on the firm foundation afforded by an intimate understanding of the principle of superposition. Its chief limitation from the standpoint of general usefulness lies in the fact that the arcing characteristics of a given interrupter must be known before it can be applied. Thus, a certain number of actual test or empirical data is prerequisite."
"L. J. Linde and B. W. Wyman (General Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): It has been of much interest to watch the development of the magnetic-type air circuit breaker and its applications to higher-capacity circuits. During the past six years this Institute has witnessed the gradual advancement of these breakers until we now have ratings from 50,000 to 500,000 kva at votage ratings of from 2,300 to 15,000 volts. Mr. Dickinson has presented an air circuit breaker designed to satisfy the very difficult problem of repetitive duty with high-current interrupting capacity. This breaker should be a welcome addition to the growing line of magnetic-type air circuit breakers."
"E. A. Williams, Jr. (General Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): It is quite an unusual occurence when two separate groups of engineers working in two different organizations can reach the same conclusions relative to the general application and design requirements for a line of power fuses. A comparison of the Rawlins-Fahnoe paper with the Prince-Williams paper1 and the Williams-Schuck paper2 shows a remarkable close agreement on all essential fundamentals."
"W. F. Skeats (General Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): The first field requirement for high-voltage three-cycle breakers appeared about ten years ago, and low-oil-content breakers of the impulse type were placed in service on the 287-kv Boulder Dam-Los Angeles line in 1936 and have been in successful operation ever since. On the basis of this successful experience it is natural to think of extending the development to lower-voltage breakers and of increasing the breadth of its application by adapting it to dead-tank breakers."
"H. V. Nye (Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company, Milwaukee, Wis.): This paper is an interesting description of the difficulties encountered in trying to develop the air magnetic type of circuit breaker into a reliable interrupter for 15,000-volt service. The first thing that impresses the reader after looking over the data and sketches submitted with the paper is the complexity of control and arc runner structure attained by the introduction of six separate magnetic-blowout systems into one arc chute."
"J. P. Dallas (nonmember; Los Angeles, Calif.): In reference to “Aircraft signal systems” by Raymond A. Rugge, there are many aircraft electrical engineers who disagree with the primary assumptions as well as the final conclusions of this paper. A brief statement of the basis of this disagreement may be in order."
"R. C. Mason (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): The breakdown voltage under uniform field conditions, and for values considerably larger than the minimum increases only slightly less rapidly than does the product of gap length and gas density. Near the minimum of the familiar sparking-potential curve, the change of voltage with pd is slight. For nonuniform fields, however, the breakdown voltage for a given electrode separation does not increase nearly so rapidly as gas density does; and further, the variation depends upon the field distribution and hence will not be the same for all separations of a given electrode system."
"R. C. Mason (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): In this paper references are quoted to show that sparking (or corona) cannot occur at less than 351 or 275 volts, depending on which authority one believes, yet, experimentally Mr. Wilson found what he calls “corona” to start in one case at 80 volts rms (113 peak). Is there a real contradiction here? I believe not."
"W. M. Davidson (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): In testing aircraft cables to determine their ability to burn clear when subjected to faults there are many variables. The problem in aircraft circuits is even more complex than in industrial distribution systems because of the scarcity of data on the nature of faults. In the laboratory logical assumptions must be made to determine comparative effects of different system voltages, available fault current, and the nature of the fault itself."
"R. C. Mason (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): Paschen's law, as the authors have explained and emphasized, applies only for uniform fields. As the engineer often must deal with nonuniform fields, the more general Principle of Similitude, of which Paschen's law is merely a special case, really should be the guide in gas-discharge work. As applied to gas breakdown, the principle of similitude requires all linear dimensions of the apparatus to be multiplied by the same factor which divides the gas density, in order for the starting voltage of the discharge to be unchanged; it is not enough merely to change the separation of the electrode. Further, with nonuniform fields, breakdown voltage is not a function of pd alone."
"P. A. Borden (The Bristol Company, Waterbury, Conn.): In reading Professor Marshall's paper I could not but be reminded of the somewhat similar work described in a paper which I presented before the Institute several years ago.1 At that time, however, many of the modern units which Professor Marshall has been able to utilize in making his apparatus portable were not available. As a result, the apparatus which I described could not in any sense be considered as portable. It was possible, though, with this equipment to obtain extremely satisfactory results in the measurement of a-c quantities where the amount of power available for purposes of measurement was negligible in magnitude."
"P. A. Borden (The Bristol Company, Waterbury, Conn.): To one who has read the literature on power-factor measurement as published during the past 30 years, it would seem almost imposible that any further contribution of value could be produced. Mr. Millar, however, appears to have accomplished the task and made a valuable addition to the theoretical discussion of the subject, and particularly to the laws underlying scale conformation."
"Paul MacGahan (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, Newark, N. J.): The authors have presented one more important example of a fact that is being recognized gradually by instrument engineers — that principles of operation having been well established, and that modern methods of manufacture with highly developed tool equipment having been more recently applied, the designers now look to new materials for the next big step in progress. Among new materials, the magnetic alloys are the most important which have become available for instrument use."
"G. D. McCann (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): The data reported in this paper are of great value in furthering our knowledge of lightning phenomena, particularly because of the thoroughness with which the investigation has been conducted. The installation of surge-crest-ammeter links on every tower of the lines studied has enabled the determination of the density of strokes to the lines and the variation of this with time and location. This is one of the most fundamental factors in the lightning performance of transmission lines for which little information has been available from any other source."
"A. R. van C. Warrington (General Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa.): I should like to congratulate the authors on their interesting paper describing the adaptation of the constant mho circle to the balanced beam type of relay, which I understand was applied at Fort Peck last summer."
"E. G. Newton (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): The data on the fusing practices on distribution systems as compiled and presented by Parsons and Wallace give a good over-all picture of existing practices and problems. However, in discussing the weighted average fusing ratios of their Figure 3 they state, “The ratio of the minimum melting point of the fuse link to the full-load current of the transformer will be twice that shown in the figure, as all these data are based on N-rated links.” Then they compare the earlier data shown by the dotted lines of the figure with the solid-line data which the authors indicate they corrected on the basis of the foregoing statement. This leads to their conclusion that “One factor probably contributing to the increased fusing ratio is the change in method of rating fuse links. This automatically would increase the fusing ratio if the use of the same link ratings were continued.”"
"John Grzybowski Holm (Boston Port of Embarkation; Boston, Mass.): In their paper the authors made a distinct contribution by pointing out the advantages single-pole switching has over the three-pole switching. The practical advantage of single-pole switching is evident particularly when high-speed reclosing breakers are employed in a single-circuit line. The application is by no means limited to this case, and may be used with equal success on multicircuit lines where the reclosing principle is not applied."
"Frederick L. Kahn (Automatic Electric Company, Chicago, Ill.): It is good news to hear of the first installation of automatic-toll-ticketing equipment in this country. The methods and problems have been presented and analyzed very clearly by the author. The high saturation of telephones in and near all metropolitan areas and the close community of interest within such areas make direct subscriber-to-subscriber dialing very desirable; the automatic-ticketing equipment provides a most important and final link. It is to be hoped that conditions after the war will permit the rapid introduction of this new feature in many areas."
"Gilbert Sorber (nonmember; Automatic Electric Company, Chicago, Ill.): It is most interesting to note the great amount of progress in and recognition of the application of automatic-switching principles to the switching of toll lines, and to the adaption of key-control operators equipment placed in service in Philadelphia. The paper quite comprehensively presents a picture of the basic switching principles and the technical problems involved. It appears, however, that the equipment is limited to major toll centers, wherein panel or crossbar equipment is employed for local services. The paper deals extensively with crossbar switching mechanism. This, we assume, is because it discusses the application of a particular manufacturer's type of equipment, and is not a controlling factor in arriving at the desired switching accomplishments."
"P. T. Chin, O. W. Livingston, and E. E. Moyer (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): Of the few means available by which automatically to control the d-c output of a non-grid-controlled rectifier the saturable reactor seems to be about the most satisfactory, even though, as in the case of grid-controlled rectifiers, the control of the direct voltage output is achieved at the expense of lagging power factor on the a-c side."
"W. G. Taylor (nonmember; General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): In the portion of their paper concerning the War Emergency Pipelines, Inc. Hyde and Marbury show that, when the main pump motors are started on the 80 per cent tap of the autotransformer, the demand, with two units in operation and the third one being started, is about 25 per cent less than when starting at full voltage. This is evidently based on the assumption that full-rated voltage of 2,300 is maintained on the pumping station bus. In “Electrical Equipment for the War Emergency Pipe-Line Projects,” by Thomas, Taylor, and Wolfe,1 it is stated that, under the most unfavorable power conditions, only about ten per cent reduction in starting kilovolt-amperes of the motor can be expected from reduced-voltage starting. With two motors already running, the reduction in station demand would be even less in percentage."
"I. R. Schumaker (nonmember; General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The authors have stated that “considerable attention has been given to the study of current-carrying ability and circuit-interruption ability of contacts, while the ‘making’ of contacts has been practically neglected.” It is not to be assumed that little is being done on this score just because little or nothing has been published about it. Several years ago some 12 contact-testing machines were produced for member companies of the American Society for Testing Materials subcommittee on contacts to the specifications of that subcommittee and for the sole purpose of testing contact-making ability. This would indicate that considerable work had been done before that time and that an even more concerted effort is being made now. In addition, the demands of our Air Forces in this war for contactors and relays that will do tremendous jobs in small-sized packages has given the manufacturers an even greater realization of the problems involved in the “making” of an electrical circuit. However, the data that have been taken up to this point are so inconsistent that it is difficult to arrive at any conclusions. To be more specific, seven of the ASTM machines operating under the same conditions of load, speed, and pressure and using tips made by the same manufacturer in the same lot, showed a variation in total number of welds after 250,000 operations of 2 for one machine to 500 for another, with the others well distributed between these limits!"
"S. T. Maunder (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): Mr. Boyajian's paper is a refreshing presentation of a subject that is popular with every engineering student and graduate — rearranging the curriculum. The paper makes sense out of the cultural versus scientific controversy, by introducing applied psychology and applied English for the engineering student."
"Jerome J. Taylor (The Detroit Edison Company, Detroit, Mich.): The authors give a table showing the influence of system voltage on the weight of the power-distributionsystem copper in large aircraft. They also state that the present 27-volt d-c electric system has done an excellent job to date, but becomes inadequate from the standpoint of weight for application to planes now being designed. These planes are larger, and presumably require greater amounts of electric power, than the B17 and the B24."
"R. J. Lusk (nonmember; captain, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): Mr. Kaufmann's paper applying fault-protective principles to d-c aircraft systems is an important indication of the present trend toward a cordinated electrical system for use in aircraft and may well serve as a basis for development of standards for such a system."
"C. B. Mirick (Naval Research Laboratory, Anacostia Station, Washington, D. C.): I would like to offer the following comment on this interesting and valuable paper."
"E. R. Whitehead (Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): The authors have performed a valuable service to the protection engineer in making available such complete information in one paper."
"C. F. Wagner (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): While the paper by Mr. Concordia is doubtless correct for the particular assumptions made, the conclusions drawn are much too general for the actual analysis presented. The author should have stated specifically whether the general conclusions drawn were backed up by further analysis not given in the paper or by tests devised especially to establish these points. Whereas tests are referred to, no actual data are given in the paper. For example, I am inclined to agree with Mr. Concordia that amortisseurs have little effect upon the power limit, but I fail to find the evidence in the paper upon which this conclusion is based. Similar considerations apply to the effect of antihunt devices in the regulator circuit."
"H. G. Rickover (captain, United States Navy, Bureau of Ships, Washington, D. C.): The problem of voltage regulation of a-c generators under suddenly applied loads is of considerable importance in the design of ship's service power systems on naval vessels. On shipboard the requirements for minimum weight, size, and complexity of electric equipment make it necessary to start relatively large motors across the line to avoid the use of reduced-voltage starting equipment as much as possible. For this reason and because of the necessity of maintaining close tolerances on the system voltage disturbances, the generator voltage regulation is an important factor in the system design, and definite limitations always have been specified on the transient reactance of a-c generators built for naval service."
"B. M. Jones (Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): I think that the working out of typical cases, as the authors did, is very helpful on any technical and scientific problem. It is all very well to work out the theory and the high-powered scientific solutions, but the men who are going to use them want to see typical examples worked out also, and I believe that that is a very good point in this paper."
"Victor Siegfried (Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Worcester, Mass.): The authors' description of the inverter action of the thyratron-motor control upon reversal has added considerably to the art of supplying d-c motors from rectifiers. The application of this feature has extended the usefulness of the drive to include practically every feature previously available with conventional generator supplies. The material in this paper also brings out clearly a number of the relations which occur in the rectifier-supplied motor whether reversing or nonreversing."
"E. E. Dreese (Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio): It has been known for sometime that by the use of asymmetry it is possible to obtain starting torque in a single-phase motor with a single winding Such a motor is economically and technically desirable because of the simplicity in avoiding a separate starting winding and switch and, therefore, giving an attendant saving in manufacturing cost Another advantage is the avoidance of maintenance troubles and outages, since by far the greatest single factor causing breakdowns in single-phase motors is trouble with the starting winding and its automatic switch."
"C. W. Lange (nonmember; General Electric Company, Erie, Pa.): This paper describes a method and includes certain formulations to aid in determining the armature and field windings for different ratings in small-size d-c machines already developed for other ratings."
"P. H. Trickey (Diehl Manufacturing Company, Elizabethport, N. J.): It is not to be wondered at, that Mr. Lloyd became discouraged in attempting to use the classical textbook formula for the D2L of an induction motor when he found such variations in the so-called fundamental factors. Perhaps one of the reasons for the discrepancies, is that as far as I was taught by the older engineers, and as far as I have been able to determine myself, the horsepower of an induction motor is a function of the (OD)2W where OD is the diameter of the stator lamination, and W the core stack and not of the D2L of the rotor. I have personally found that I could vary the rotor diameter and proportions of iron and copper through quite wide ranges with only small effect on the performance, but that I always had to have the same (OD)2W to equal a competitor."
"P. H. Trickey (Diehl Manufacturing Company, Elizabethport, N. J.): Mr. Veinott is to be commended for his very clear and thorough presentation of the starting equations for the different types of single-phase motors. The calculation form shown at the end of his paper has already proved of great value. That alone would justify presentation to the AIEE."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"FLUORESCENCE is a smart way of saying “fluorspar luminescence.” Ninety years ago the great mathematical scientist, George Gabriel Stokes, was doing a chemical experiment with fluorite, when accidentally the rock came into view of an arc lamp. Stokes noticed the color of the crystals change suddenly from green to blue. His keen mind went to work on that trivial observation."
"Prior to 1918 only a few vacuum tubes of a simple type, usually a glass envelope enclosing a filament, a plate, and a control grid, were in use. Recently, especially in the war program, they constantly are being applied in new fields and the demands of the Armed Forces, particularly for communication and electrical detecting devices, have accelerated their use to an unprecedented degree. Even in civilian life the expansion will be noticeable: four or more types of tubes now will be used in every home radio receiver and in manufacturing processes many types of control equipment incorporate electronic devices."
"Lighting of instruments in airplanes by the use of indicator markings that fluoresce when bathed in ultraviolet radiation is one of the latest developments that adds to the convenience and safety of the crew. The light is not detectable by enemy. airmen, does not cause unwanted reflections, and does not impair night vision. Through several stages of development, a blue fluorescent mercuryvapor lamp which operates on the 24-volt d-c system of the airplane has been produced for generating the ultraviolet radiation."
"THE transformer subcommittee of the AIEE electrical machinery committee has undertaken a study of the factors involved in the performance characteristics of feeder-voltage regulators in order to lay the ground work for preparing standards which this type of apparatus must meet to insure adequate performance. Because voltage regulators are important elements in most transmission and distribution systems, the transformer subcommittee felt that a discussion of their characteristics would benefit the industry."
"IN the development of the cross-field theory for the single-phase induction motor, a particularly favorable opportunity is provided to present a clear interpretation of how the stator and rotor fluxes and currents mutually interact to develop torque and maintain rotation. The mathematical relationships are presented in various textbooks and papers on the subject, but for the first study of the subject the mathematical treatise should be given secondary importance to that of conveying a clear understanding of the physical reactions of the electric and magnetic quantities within the motor."
"GOOD ENGINEERING should produce economically sound results, for engineering is but that group of special skills, knowledge, and experience whereby the forces of nature are made useful to mankind. If engineering projects are not economically sound they become a depressing rather than a stimulating influence on the general welfare."
"Arrangements are being made for an enlarged technical program for the Pacific Coast technical meeting, which will be held in Los Angeles, Calif., August 29–September 1. Meeting headquarters will be in the Biltmore Hotel."
"In its baptism of fire in the Anzio beach-head assault the latest Signal Corps “walkie-talkie” or SCR 300 radio set met and exceeded every expectation for range and reliability and was lauded as the most valuable item of radio equipment in the attacking division by the division signal officer."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"CONTROLLED rectifiers, either thyratron-tube or ignitron-tube equipments, are becoming more and more frequently used to obtain regulated sources of d-c from an a-c supply, both for d-c power requirements and for control purposes."
"MOST textbooks on transformers mention in a few concluding paragraphs that for certain applications special transformers can be used to good advantage. Foremost among these is the autotransformer which offers very important advantages if the ratio of input to output voltage is close to unity. Other special transformers mentioned are small instrument transformers, constant-current transformers, and voltage regulators. Voltage regulators are ordinarily divided into several groups: the automatic magnetic-flux-type regulator without moving parts, the induction regulator with one of its windings mounted so that it can be turned into different positions with respect to the other windings, and the tap-changing type, which requires special precautions if voltage has to be changed under load."
"THE phenomenon of rotor winding deformation on turbogenerator rotors is discussed in reference 1. As copies of this paper are not readily available, the subject is here briefly reviewed."
"BLAST cooling has been a major factor in obtaining the phenomenal outputs of modern aircraft generators from a small weight of material. This subject, in spite of its importance, seems to have been neglected in technical literature and, as a result, the fundamental principles do not seem to be at all well understood. Because of this lack, the subject has often appeared to be more involved than it actually is. It is generally understood that the amount of air flowing through a given generator depends upon the pressure differential available across the generator, and it is also well understood that the amount of pressure available from the blast tube depends upon the amount of air drawn by the generator. Because of this mutual interdependence, flight tests are today generally taken with a specific generator and blast tube, and it seems to be generally felt that it is necessary to test each different combination of generator and blast tube. Just as Ohm's law enormously simplified the calculation of electric circuits, so can the calculation of blast cooling be simplified by the use of similar concepts, which will be defined, explained, and used in this paper. This line of attack clarifies the fundamental principles involved, makes it necessary to run only one series of tests on any given blast tube, and one series of tests on any one given generator. It is not necessary to test each and every combination of generator and blast tube. This line of attack also makes it possible to write specifications which simultaneously accomplish a number of purposes:"
"AIRCRAFT generators are designed for high output, low weight, small size, and wide speed range. These limitations require close designs which do not permit normal allowances for material and manufacturing variations. Small variations in the material and manufacturing processes result in wider variations in output characteristics than in conventional machines."
"THE electronic rectifier is currently achieving considerable prominence as a source for d-c motors.1–5 It has many advantages over both fixed and variable-voltage generator systems in the reduction of critical materials and elimination of rotating parts in the conversion process. Furthermore, its ease of control by means of the grid-phase-shifting system of the thyratron or the ignitron suggests many applications where new results can be secured."
"THE increase in electrically powered and electrically controlled equipment on aircraft has made it necessary, in certain cases, to add sizable single-phase loads to three-phase inverters. The nature of the existing three-phase load, however, placed severe restrictions on the permissible voltage unbalance. The need was felt for a means of maintaining balanced voltages between phases of a three-phase inverter operating under the conditions described above. As this balancer was to be used on aircraft, the further limitations that it be light in weight and efficient in operation were imposed."
"ROTATING machinery of all types is subject to damage when exposed to severe vibration caused by mechanical unbalance, or its equivalent, in the rotating element. Although electrical machinery has a good record in this respect, its freedom from vibration has been due largely to the degree of maintenance which it usually receives. Now, however, due to wartime restrictions, electrical and other machinery is often run under conditions which would not be permitted normally until after repairs had been made. When this is done, protective measures should be adopted where possible to prevent serious machine damages if the weakened part should fail."
"PART of results obtained from measurement of electrical constants of long transmission line have been presented previously.1 Interest shown in these measurements and request for additional information led to this more complete presentation of data and results of tests which will be of interest to engineers who follow long-transmission-line theory and practice, relay application, and fault studies."
"OPERATING mechanisms for power circuit breakers differ from most machines in that: 1. Moderate amounts of energy must be released quickly and easily at a high power rate."
"FOR many years, American Standard C19 (Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. issue of 1938 and National Electrical Manufacturers' Association industrial-control standards publication 40–59, April 1940) for industrial-control apparatus has specified an allowable temperature rise for industrial-control coils with class-A insulation of 85 degrees centigrade by resistance. Although this is 25 degrees centigrade higher than the value of 60 degrees centigrade rise by resistance established for rotating machinery with class-A insulation, service experience with control coils has been thoroughly satisfactory. It is estimated from field experience that not more than five per cent of all coil failures have been caused by temperature, despite the frequent use of above-normal voltages. The author believes, therefore, that the present control standard has proved to be conservative with respect to temperature-rise limits."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"EVERY professional man has hurdles to get over if he is to succeed. To start with, he must be a mechanic. The danger is that he will never be anything else. The medical man must be skilled in observations and diagnoses which can be purely mechanical. The surgeon must be an adept in dissection and tying knots. The lawyer must have a somewhat mechanical ability in stating definitely an idea, or meeting of minds, in words. Any honest so-called professional man strives to do the job at hand to the best of his ability. He wants to earn his pay. In this, however, he is no different from the honest toolmaker working to a thousandth of an inch. If their several abilities go no further, why should they be called professional men? What is the difference between the most highly trained mechanic and the professional man? I have no doubt many men would give many different answers. To me the answer is that the professional man never forgets human relations and the progress of human development. The true professional man sees more in his job at hand than a repair, a victory, or material achievement. Each such job at hand by which he earns his daily bread is part of a fundamental personal purpose to aid humanity in general. He means by his whole work and life to make the world better. He is willing also to give time and thought, for which he is not paid, in the hope of making human relations closer and more sympathetic. In short, he adds to his devotion to his client or customer a devotion to humanity."
"IN THE TIME of Samuel F. B. Morse, inventor of the telegraph, a single telegraph transmission of perhaps five words per minute represented the maximum use that could be made of a telegraph wire. Today over 97 per cent of all telegraph communication in the United States is carried on by automatic printers, which are known as teleprinters or teletypewriters. The word-per-minute speed of such machines is 60, and as many as 144 of these machines are now worked over a two-wire pair. The relative wire economies of the modern system and that in use even relatively recently, when the telegraph sounder still clicked away its 20 words per minute, are obvious."
"POWER PLANTS are one of the targets whose destruction is certain in any area over which battles are fought. Power, however, is the prime necessity in restoring devastated areas as soon as they cease to be battlegrounds. To make initial power available at the earliest possible moment, mobile electric-generating plants in the form of railroad trains which may be moved to selected sites and quickly placed in operation are under construction by several manufacturers in the United States. The first units have already been delivered."
"THE FAILURE of a metal part in service by “fatigue” may be expected if: 1. The stress is not constant, but repeatedly varies in a “cycle” between a lower (minimum) and a greater (maximum) stress; the most severe cycle being that in which minimum and maximum are equal and opposite (full reversal). 2. The greater stress, maximum, is of a sufficient intensity. 3. The cycle is repeated a sufficient number of times, meaning hundreds or thousands or millions according to the severity of items 1 and 2. (For a more complete introduction to the subject see reference 1, which also contains an extended bibliography.)"
"WE electrical engineers have too many developments in progress to subscribe to the sentiment that we live in a mature economy, even though we have been told we do. We feel confident that the future is going to flow on from the past. We have our natural laws through which we work. Most of us do not expect to break the laws of conservation of energy, at least not right away. We think that 100 per cent efficiency is a safe limit for the time being. But we can see that lots of these laws can be interpreted in another way. Laws are not necessarily limiting. Man-made laws are limiting, but nature's laws are partly for the purpose of directing us to the things that we can do instead of limiting us to the things that we cannot do. So, we take these laws, and we see what we might conceivably do in the way of using them as guides for the future."
"I desire first to thank you for the great honor you have bestowed upon me in electing me your president. I am looking forward to my term of office as a further opportunity to serve the Institute and shall do what I can to maintain the high traditions associated with the office."
"Because of serious travel congestion, the Office of Defense Transportation has requested the cancellation of conventions. However, as the program originally planned for the Pacific Coast technical meeting is predominantly devoted to electrical applications to military aircraft, the meeting is to be held as the Los Angeles technical meeting. Members who do not have a direct interest in the papers to be presented should give serious consideration to travel conditions and whether or not their attendance would really aid the war effort."
"With 89 technical papers and some 30 conference papers presented and discussed in 21 technical sessions and 5 technical conferences, the Institute's 1944 summer technical meeting, held June 26–30, in St. Louis, Mo., set a new record in this respect. In spite of wartime transportation difficulties, attendance was almost up to the high level of the past four years, as indicated by the accompanying tabulations."
"Constituting the opening gathering of the 1944 summer technical meeting in St. Louis, Mo., the annual AIEE business meeting convened at 10 a.m. Monday, June 26. On the agenda were the usual annual items of Institute business, including the report of the board to the membership, the treasurer's report, tellers' report on election of officers for 1944–45, and report on award of prizes for 1943 papers. The program also included presentations of the AIEE Lamme medal and the Faraday medal of the British Institution of Electrical Engineers. The meeting was concluded with an address by President Nevin E. Funk, who presided."
"Four sessions comprised the program of conferences for officers, delegates, and members at the AIEE 1944 summer technical meeting in St. Louis, Mo., which included one combined conference and three so-called Sections clinics. Initiated at the 1943 conferences, the success of the clinic plan led to its expansion to include three clinics this year as compared with the two held last year. Delegates from the larger Sections, the smaller Sections with concentrated membership, and the smaller Sections with scattered membership, respectively, discussed their Section operating and management problems in the three parallel clinics."
"The committee on engineering education after the war of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education has completed a report which was published in the Journal of Engineering Education for May 1944, and presented at the society's fifty-second annual convention, Cincinnati, Ohio, June 22–25, 1944. The committee operated under a directive to study the urgent problems of the immediate future as well as longer range problems of educational principle and practice, and particularly to review a 1940 report on aims and scope of engineering curricula in the light of future conditions as they can now be envisaged."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"RESEARCH and engineering studies of gas-filled cable were started about 2 years ago by the company with which the writer is associated and this development work has been carried on coninuously since then. Useful results in the form of practical cable designs have resulted and more will follow in the futures our knowledge of the basic principles off this type of cable increases. The present paper will be in the form of a progress report summarizing results obtained since the first two papers1,2 on this subject were presented before the IEEE in 1939 and 1942. The same methds of test and analysis of test data described in the previous papers will be allowed and, although an attempt will be made to have the present paper complete in itself, it will be necessary to refer to the older papers frequently to avoid copetition."
"THE interconnection of large power systems with industrial and defense plants having a comparatively small generating capacity is not unusual in these days. These plants require a considerable block of power for 24-hour full-capacity operation, and this power is available by means of the interconnection with the power system. More than one interconnection would assure higher continuity of service, but the general practice of locating defense plants in rural or suburban areas, remote from urban power-system networks, often results in one transmission-line interconnection operating in parallel with plant generators. Like all lines, the interconnection is subject occasionally to faults with resulting temporary loss of power for the plant. During these emergencies, the local generator or generators at the plant which normally contribute to the total load are suddenly called upon to carry all of the plant load. The local generators are not able to supply this load and consequently are heavily overloaded. As a result, the frequency decreases rapidly. However, complete shutdown of the plant can be avoided by dropping some of the load and retaining within the capacity of the local generators the load of the most essential machines and processes."
"THE Sorocabana Railway in inaugurating electric traction on its extensive meter-gauge system has selected the 87-mile-long double-track section between São Paulo and Santo Antonio in the State of São Paulo, Brazil, for the initial electrification. Twenty locomotives are being furnished to handle passenger, freight, and mixed trains with scheduled speeds of 35 miles per hour for passenger, and 30 miles per hour for freight and mixed trains over a mountainous terrain involving maximum grades of two per cent, and prevailing minimum radius curves of approximately 800 feet."
"THE subcommittee on transient voltages in arc-furnace circuits was established about four years ago to investigate the magnitude, cause, and control of transient voltages occurring at the primary and secondary terminals of arc-furnace transformers. The subcommittee has sponsored a number of field investigations during the past four years with the co-operation of steel companies, manufacturers of furnace equipment, and electric-equipment manufacturing companies. Only a part of the data obtained has been made generally available through publication (see a paper by Z. R. Whitehouse and C. C. Levy, “Surge-Voltage Tests on Electric Steel Arc Furnaces,” presented at a joint meeting of AIEE and Association of Iron and Steel Engineers in Canton, May 1941, and also published references 1, 2, and 6). A data group of the subcommittee (L. W. Clark, chairman; S. B. Griscom, and E. R. Whitehead) was instructed to assemble all of the data available from the several field investigations, correlate the data as completely as possible to make them available for further study by the subcommittee, and prepare general conclusions regarding the magnitude of voltage transients found during the investigations. This paper summarizes the work of the data group and the preliminary findings of the subcommittee. It should be emphasized that this paper forms only a preliminary report of the work to date and is presented only so that the field data may be available for further study and analysis. The work of the subcommittee is continuing, not only in the collection and analysis of field data but also in experimental laboratory investigations and analytical analyses. It is expected that more definite recommendations regarding operating practices and possible protection schemes will be made after further study."
"IT has long been realized that the surest and most effective way to obtain simultaneous breaker operations at both ends of a transmission line, regardless of the location of a fault within the line section, is by use of some form of pilot channel relaying. Two forms of this type of protection have been developed and used very successfully for a number of years. One system is the familiar distance-type carrier relay system, and the other is the single-element differential pilot-wire system."
"IN recent years the theory of operating of multiratio bushing-type current transformers has been given extended study resulting in a simplification of the application curves.1,2 There is still lacking, however, a single chart from which the ratio correction factor for any value of primary current, any turn number, any secondary burden, and burden power factor can be read directly. In this paper a study is made to determine the feasibility of such a chart."
"SINCE the introduction of the modern trolley coach in 1928, it has demonstrated in almost every installation its ability to increase revenues and to operate at very low cost. The investment cost for trolley-coach service is low, and the quality of that service ranks very high compared to other transportation media. The vehicle itself and the materials used in the distribution system have been improved continually with resultant improvement in the financial showing. Further progress is under way."
"The ever-increasing list of elecic equipment needed for the satisfactory performance of the modern airplane has ought the electric system from a place of lative unimportance to one which cannot ignored. The electric equipment must fail, particularly on combat planes. herefore, the protective devices must be signed and applied to permit the equipent to function as long as it can supply useful work but to remove it from the circuit when it has ceased to function or become a hazard. This type of electrical otection is obtainable with fuses of special sign when applied properly."
"TO the switchgear designer whose point of view is influenced so largely by the needs of the “man who operates and maintains,” the electronic power converter presents some new and interesting opportunities. The ease with which the converter is switched into and out of service and its output is controlled presents the opportunity of providing simple and at the same time versatile controls by means of which the operator can make the fullest use of the converter, in meeting the varying demands of his system. Protective relaying of the electronic converter against system disturbances is simple since the rectifier furnishes no power to its system and the output of the inverter is limited."
"THE principal function of a generator control relay on aircraft d-c electrical systems is to connect the generator to the ship's d-c bus whenever the generator is in a condition to furnish power to the bus, and to disconnect the generator from the system whenever the generator draws reverse current from the bus above a predetermined value. The relay also provides a means of disconnecting or holding off any generator at the will of the operator."
"LIGHTING plays as essential a role in the performance of a modern air-transport airplane as it traditionally does not the stage. It is the purpose of this paper to outline the extent of the subject and to acquaint the reader with the basic requirements of each of the specific apllications. Actual airline operating experience will form the basis for these requirements."
"A PAPER on fusing practices on distribution systems operating at five kilovolts and below was presented at the winter technical meeting.1 It discussed the results of a questionnaire which had been submitted to about 200 operating companies and presented the data in graphical form. The data of the present paper were gathered on systems operating between 5 and 15 kv. Wherever possible, the form of the previous paper has been followed in order to permit ready comparison."
"THE power input to arc furnaces has always been controlled by automatic adjustment of electrode position. Figure 1a shows a typical installation of an arc furnace which employs hydraulic electrode positioning. In this type of furnace air up-push is used to counterbalance the weight of the electrode arm. Hydraulic means, controlled by a small motor, is employed to lower or raise the arm."
"THE general theory of four-terminal networks is well known and may appear in any one of several forms, depending on the combinations of external currents and voltages which are to be related. In the present discussion we are interested in specifying the sending-end voltage and current, each in terms of linear combinations of both receiver voltage and current. In the general case of Figure 1, which may be a nonsymmetrical network, the required relations may be written where the notation is that of the figure and A, B', C', and D are constants of proportionality. (The primes on B and C are used here merely to allow a uniform notation in the final results.) The theory of smooth lines and recurrent ladder networks is usually given in terms of the surge impedances (two in the case of a nonsymmetrical network) and the propagation function. However, this is an artificial point of view when one is interested in the over-all behavior of the circuit, considered as a four-terminal network, the parameters of equations 1 being more suitable. Occasion will arise in the subsequent discussion to compare the formulas for the ladder network with those for the smooth line. Therefore, we begin by putting the smooth-line parameters into forms suitable to our purpose."
"SINCE the first devices for interrupting short-circuit currents in electric systems were invented, the problem of having them operate to clear faults without removing energy from normal circuits has existed. Many devices, both separate and as parts of the interrupters, have been developed and good results obtained. Systems having potentials below 600 volts alternating current normally use air interrupting devices designed particularly for this service."
"AIEE technical paper 42–79, entitled “Thermal Co-ordination of Motors, Control, and Their Branch Circuits on Power Supplies of 600 Volts and Less,”1 was presented in April 1942. The purpose of the article as stated was “to show what the characteristics of the protective devices should be in order that the power will be disconnected from the main feeders under all conditions of excess current before excess temperatures are attained.” After the overload protecting requirements were discussed, it was pointed out that “to protect the conductors in the branch circuit adequately, the control devices, and the motor winding, we must use a device that is both fast in opening the circuit and also has the necessary interrupting ability.” In discussing the speed and the interrupting abilities of circuit breakers and fuses which were used to protect the motors and the controls against short circuits, the following statement was made:"
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"THE INSTITUTE'S 60th birthday was the 13th of May 1944. The first 50 years of our history have been presented in the golden-anniversary number of Electrical Engineering;1 in it most of the then living past presidents individually covered some specific part of the many activities of the Institute in a comprehensive way. I will not attempt to duplicate that information."
"MANY contradictory pictures of air transportation in the future have been painted which vary from rosy optimism to the darker shades of pessimism. Just what may be expected realistically during the first ten years of peace?"
"MEDALS are awards for valor. Just as many of our young men who are fighting the enemy are decorated for brave deeds, so do we today honor a man for his courage-not for physical intrepidity but for mental daring."
"IN sorting and clarifying my impressions of Arthur Kehoe, I labor under a certain difficulty — I have been so close to him for over 30 years that I now have to change my focus in order to bring to you a proper picture of the engineer and the man."
"IT is doubtful if a reasonably complete story of the contributions which a select group of men made at considerable risk during the development of successful multiple-feed a-c network distribution has ever been compiled. I feel I owe it to them to start one, since their work, which has had scant recognition, caused mine to be noted."
"CALCULATIONS of the horizontal relative field patterns of antennas are long and laborious and increase in complexity with the number of antenna elements employed. Present calculating machines are useful only for antenna-beam arrays consisting of not over three elements. The system described herein will handle any number of antenna elements and can be used to solve problems in a fraction of the time normally required. Its advantages become more apparent as the number of antenna elements increases. The accuracy of these graphical solutions can be made comparable to slide-rule calculations."
"Electronically controlled resistance welders now seam-weld these detachable gasoline tanks for the Lightning P-38 fighters in four minutes at the rate of 60 inches per minute. Since no additional metal is deposited in this process, welding rod ordinarily consumed m rod welding is saved. The process also permit, the substitution of steel for the aluminum formerly uaed. Two of the streamlined tanks are attached like pontoons to the airplanes and, when empty, may b e dropped off if the fighter needs to gain speed."
"TRANSFORMERS have thermal capacity; furthermore, they frequently show lower temperature rises during test than the guaranteed rise. Load factors are usually under 100 per cent and rarely are ambient temperatures continuously 40 degrees centigrade. For these reasons it usually is possible to get out of them more than is indicated by their name-plate ratings."
"This versatile calculating machine recendy was presented by International Business Machines Corporation to Harvard University to be used by the United States Navy for the duration. Employing a unique automatic sequence control which receives problems on a coded tape, the machine will solve practically any known problem to 23 significant figures, including problems involving computation and tabulation of functions, evaluation of integrals, solution of simultaneous linear algebraic equations, and harmonic and statistical analysis. Its basic performance comprises addition, subtraction, use of parentheses and brackets, multiplication, division, interpolation or the location of values of functions in mechanical tables of mathematical functions, card punching of computations, card feeding, and storage of numerical data. Particularly benefited by such calculations are the fields of atomic physics, electronics, actuarial work, optics, and astronomy. The operator of the machine need not be a trained mathematician, but the problem must be coded by one."
"THE plans of the electrical industry, and of the utility industry in particular, for the postwar period are not a new subject. In the utility business where it takes nearly three years to build a new power plant, planning for the future is a routine part of the job. Postwar planning is the same job except that some of the plans must have an X date instead of a definite date for beginning construction."
"The 1944 AIEE summer and Los Angeles meeting programs, which were greatly expanded to meet current wartime needs, have made available for publication during the second half of 1944 many more technical papers than originally were anticipated. In an effort to provide for publication of this material in an appropriate manner under present conditions, certain changes in publication procedure have been adopted."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A new light compact telephone switching unit developed by the Signal Corps, Army Service Forces, is supplanting for emergency field service the bulky switchboards hitherto used. This unit, the Adapter Plug U-4/GT, can be used for terminating a local battery telephone line, and several plugs, used with a field telephone for the operator's set, will provide a workable switchboard substitute which may be set up rapidly."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mau by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"Use of a-c power systems on aircraft presents the problem of providing switching means. Contactors with the desired characteristics and suitable size and weight have not been available. Analysis of operating conditions, contactor size requirements, and performance characteristics provide a basis of design of a group of contactors to meet the needs of present and projected aircraft. These designs can meet aircraft size limitations and be capable of handling the circuits under all foreseen normal and emergency requirements."
"THERE are many operations in applications where d-c shunt motors are used where it is necessary to slow down the rotating system in order to perform certain functions. Many typical examples are found in machine-tool work, such as cross-feeding of a tool, milling-cutter slow-down for sharp corners, accurate positioning of tool to work, slowdown of a grinding wheel for dressing. Other examples are found in the slowing down of a printing machine for the purpose of matching colors and occasionally to obtain a threading speed in a textile range drive."
"Heat pumps are refrigerating systems in which the principal interest is in the heat given off by the condenser. A portion of this comes from the electric input to the compressor and the remainder from cooling an external source of heat, usually outdoor air. Heat output is several times the equivalent of electric input, and these systems offer possibilities of fuel economy beyond anything possible with fuel-burning equipment. These systems can be used for all-year air conditioning, but the heat requirement dictates larger equipment than necessary for cooling only. Electric-load requirements are attractive, but further development is necessary and will be dependent on the promotion of summer air conditioning for homes."
"THE electric-driven cargo winces used to load and unload a modern cargo vessel are required to give fast efficient operation. Wartime conditions have made the time for loading and unloading cargo more important than ever. In addition to the need for optimum operating characteristics, the war has also brought about changes in the construction and assembly of the winches and their associated control. Every square foot of deck space is needed to carry cargo to the fighting fronts, and the space allotted to the winch must be kept to a minimum. In the past the winch, the control panel, and the resistor had been furnished separately, then mounted and wired on the ship. The time to install all this equipment on the vessel is now too long to keep pace with the accelerated shipbuilding program. The problem is being solved by furnishing the winch, the control, and the resistor, as a unit. This unit is interconnected so that very little wiring must be done on the ship and the installation time is materially reduced (see Figure 1)."
"THE development of single-anode rectifying elements has greatly stimulated the application of rectifiers to general industrial and essential duty loads. Sealed ignitron rectifiers1 have been made available in a range of ratings, and industry is vitally interested in the performance of these equipments when operated under conditions of partialanode complement, as when an anode is misfiring or is entirely out of service."
"Experience obtained with present multiengine aircraft electrical systems indicates a need for preventing interchange of current between generators when the system is operating at light loads. Such current interchange causes reverse-current cutouts of conventional design to connect and disconnect their respective generators to the system so rapidly that the action is called “chatter.” Conventional cutouts connect the generator to the system when the generator voltage is above a pre-set value. The differential-voltage reverse-current cutout connects the generator to the system when the generator voltage is a pre-set value above the system voltage. A description is given on the design, operation, and advantages of a differentialvoltage reverse-current cutout which prevents interchange of current between the generators."
"This paper describes a unique type of moving-magnet d-c ratio instrument. An instrument designed for temperature measurement in aircraft is described in detail."
"THE problems of protecting large installations of rotating d-c machines have been neglected to some extent by the lack of suitable high-speed switchgear rugged enough to stand the severe duty usually encountered. The authors are describing their analysis of probable short-circuit characteristics of such large systems and a high-speed breaker rated at 7,500 amperes which has been developed for this particular purpose. The authors are also describing a large rotary-converter installation built some time ago which has recently been modernized by means of modern switchgear in order to overcome the serious damage caused to the rotating machines resulting from the inadequacy of the originally installed switchgear."
"IT has been the usual practice to solve induction-motor transient problems either on the basis of the familiar steadystate equivalent circuit or by calculations which require simplifying assumptions. These methods neglect important factors determining the performance. This paper shows the necessity of considering for many practical problems the electrical and mechanical transient phenomena simultaneously."
"A discussion of recent developments in magnetic-drag-type aircraft tachometer equipment. Wartime demands for increased temperature range, instrument durability, and compactness have led to certain revisions and new design features. The results of these recent developments are outlined in this paper."
"THE increasing use by utilities or industrial plants of shunt capacitors for voltage improvement, power-factor correction, and release of circuit capacity is leading in many cases to the desirability of automatically switching or controlling the capacitors."
"THE TERM “electronic power converter” needs some definition. The object may be to convert power from direct current to alternating current for d-c power transmission, or to convert power from one frequency into another, or to serve as a commutator for operating an a-c motor at variable speed, or for transforming high-voltage direct current into low-voltage direct current. Other objectives may be mentioned. It is thus evidently not the objective but the means which characterizes the electronic power converter. Other names have been used tentatively but have not been accepted. The emphasis is on electronic means and the term is limited to conversion of power as distinguished from electric energy for purposes of communication. Thus the name is a definition."
"Modern switchgear requires, more and more frequently, special current transformers capable of carrying very high fault currents. In the past, the application engineer and the design engineer were not always close together in their work on the current-transformer problem; the application engineer has often had only an approximate idea of what the design engineer could produce, while the design engineer has had only an approximate idea as to general application requirements. The design engineer has not had too sound a basis for many of his designs. His costs were high on account of the multiplicity of special designs."
"THE requirement of totalizing two or more liquid levels in aircraft fuel tanks falls into two broad classifications. The first involves the addition of levels where the sequence of use is definitely established. This type is best exemplified by considering a long wing tank where the dihedral angle makes it necessary to have more than one transmitter in the tank to obtain complete coverage of the fuel contents. Figure 1 shows such an arrangement. With the fuel outlet as shown, transmitter 2 must function first. In other words, the sequence of operation is fixed so that the operation of transmitter 2 is always followed by that of transmitter 1 as fuel is withdrawn from the tank."
"IN recent years, the Commonwealth Edison Company has adopted bus layouts for generating stations and transmission terminals which differ greatly from those installed in its older stations. The purpose of this paper is to describe these developments and to discuss the application of the ring-bus principle to high-voltage installations. It appears to be an appropriate time to review the characteristics of various bus layouts in view of possible postwar expansion and rehabilitation of existing stations."
"IN laminated-core structures for transformers and rotating machines the need for adequate interlamination resistance becomes more necessary as the core structure increases in size. Where considerable pressures are exerted on the core laminations, a safe value of interlamination resistance must be maintained to prevent the stray losses in the core from becoming excessive. A method for determination of the minimum interlamination resistance required in terms of the core and its operating conditions, for any degree of permissible stray loss, is developed herein, resulting in a simple equation."
"THE use of battery booster coils and problems in connection therewith requires an understanding of engine ignition-system design and operation. Figure 1 illustrates a complete ignition system consisting of ignition switch, two magnetos, radio-shielded harness, spark plugs and booster magneto. One magneto is illustrated completely assembled, and the other in skeleton form showing electric and magnetic circuits."
"It generally is recognized that the kilowatt loading on distribution circuits or plant feeders may be increased substantially by using capacitors to supply the kilovar load and relieve the current-carrying system of this burden. The use of capacitors to boost voltage or actually to regulate voltage has increased during recent years. Automatic switching of capacitors makes it possible to obtain the benefits of adding capacitors to take care of the full load kilovars without the objection of excess capacitor kilovars at light loads. It also makes it possible not only to apply capacitors in the most effective manner from the standpoint of meeting power-factor limits established by the utility, but also to regulate voltage in the plant or on the system."
"REMOTE indication is, in general, the transfer of information or intelligence from one point to a remote point in a semipermanent form which may be visually observed. A variety of means can and have been used to accomplish such a purpose. Information can be sent from one place to another simply by moving a long string or cable, rotating a long flexible shaft, changing pressure in a hydraulic or pneumatic line, changing the characteristics of an electric circuit, as well as by methods involving thermal and optical devices. The fields of telemetering and visual recording are well-known branches of remote indication. Automatic control systems and computing mechanisms depend on remote indication for their source of intelligence."
"Designers of electrical equipment for aircraft are confronted with many limitations. Some of these limitations may be nullified with the use of auxiliary power plants."
"WHEN a solenoid, or cylindrical coil, has no iron core, the magnetic field in the space around it or within it may be come used very precised. Formulas have been published1 which take account of the length and thickness of the coil by algebra terms which have been obtained by an integration over the cross section of the coil. This requires a calculation to be made twice, once for the end of the coil nearer the point for which the magnetic field is being computed, and once for the farther end."
"Flight-operations experience has shown that significant improvements in fuel economy may be obtained through the use of aircraft-engine torque instruments as regular flight instruments. This paper describes the better-known types of torque instruments and introduces a new type that has recently come through its development stage."
"IN a previous article,1 the author pointed cut the many advantages of high-voltage power transmission in compressed gas. Compressed CO2 at the moderate pressure of 40 atmospheres (absolute) has a dielectric strength about 20 times as high as that of air at normal atmospheric pressure, and compressed SO2 at 40 atmospheres about 30 times as high, so that the line conductors need be separated by only a few inches instead of the customary many feet and may, therefore, be enclosed in a reasonably small pipe line. This system offers opportunities for many important cumulative economies in the terminal equipment also, and this paper is devoted to their discussion. It is shown that the use of compressed gas, instead of oil, as the insulating and cooling fluid makes possible power transformers that are only about one fourth as large as the present ones for the same duty, are for all intents and purposes nonaging, and are highly resistant to damage from internal are-overs, besides many other advantages."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"IN 1939 the problem of stabilizing guns in tanks for the condition of traveling over rough terrain was presented by Colonel David J. Crawford, Ordnance Department, United States Army, then a captain at Aberdeen Proving Ground. Colonel Crawford had previously seen certain regulating devices involving the use of gyroscopes and felt that such a combination of equipment would be necessary in the solution of his problem. Consideration was given to this, and it was found that the required speeds and accelerations of the power drive for such a stabilizer were in excess of anything previously attempted. For example, the principal disturbances were at about 1 1/2 cycles per second corresponding to the pitching frequency of the tank on its springs, and displacements were such as to cause rates of about 30 degrees per second and accelerations of 300 degrees per second per second."
"Three-dimensional drawings of a type known as trimetric drawings may be produced in less time with the aid of innovations developed by W. G. Wilkinson and H. G. Bartholomew of The Glenn L. Martin Company, Baltimore, Md., and thus become more readily available for production illustration."
"THE HEAT PUMP, which provides a means for absorbing heat at one level and discharging it at another and higher level, is best known by its application to refrigeration. However, the cycle may be operated so that the principal interest is heating instead of cooling, and recently much notice has been given to the application of heat pumps in buildings for heating in winter and cooling in summer."
"THE FARADAY MEDAL of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Great Britain, awarded to Irving Langmuir for 1943, was presented at the AIEE annual meeting, June 26, 1944, during the Institute's summer technical meeting in St. Louis, Mo. The presentation was made by A. P. M. Fleming (F '34), local honorary secretary of AIEE for England since 1929, and past president of IEE. Doctor Fleming himself received the Faraday Medal in 1941. The award was conferred by the council of IEE at its meeting, February 3, 1944."
"The Faraday Medal is awarded not more frequently than once a year, for conspicuous engineering or industrial achievement in electrical engineering, or for a notable service in connection with the development and advancement of electrical science and engineering."
"It is with a deep feeling of appreciation for the honor conferred on me by the Institution of Electrical Engineers of Great Britain that I accept this Faraday Medal. Especially at this time, when America and England are co-operating so closely, I would like to dwell on the significance of this award."
"POSTWAR planning has assumed an important place in educational systems today just as similar planning is being carried on by business men. by state organizations, and by the Federal Government. This new thinking in education has caused many college campuses to be in a state of ferment with the bubbling up of new ideas and the revival of old ideas of reform in educational processes. Today one may hear of admission to the university at an early age and a concentrated course with a bachelor's degree in two years, or of a college education contained in 100 books. Conversely, there are advocates of an engineering training lasting for six years."
"IN normal times electrical protection through the use of protective signaling systems has been used widely to protect industrial and mercantile premises and banks, but with the advent of the war, a host of protection engineers have been making serious studies relative to plant protection. As used herein, the term protective signaling is confined to the control of property and life hazards involved in fire, intrusion, and related risks. The functional technique of such protective devices does not differ greatly from that employed in the code signaling and communication field, but because they are emergency systems, infrequently used, their reliability must be exceptionally high. Protective signaling systems,1 however, are definitely not in the communication field, as the only use of communication facilities in these services is for signaling between the protected premises and the central receiving headquarters."
"WE have heard a great deal about postwar planning. In fact there are more postwar planners than there are government employees, which is of itself a triumph, but we of the welding industry in looking to the time after the war have an unusual opportunity. Although arc welding, technically, is older than any of us, its actual application in manufacturing is comparatively recent, and its application to its eventual position really has not yet been started."
"Held in an area having extensive aircraft industries with a program predominantly devoted to electrical equipment for military air craft, the AIEE Los Angeles technical meeting at the Biltmore Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif., August 29-September 1, was outstandingly successful. Keen interest was displayed throughout the program, which was by far the heaviest in technical content ever held by the Institute on the Pacific Coast. The registration of 561 was the highest ever obtained at a Pacific Coast meeting; 133 of these registrants mere nonmembers. Distant members had been requested by the AIEE executive committee to give serious consideration to the acute travel congestion and to whether or not their attendance would really aid the war effort. Proceeds from the sale of technical papers amounted to $475.70 in contrast to a total of $49.75 at the Pacific Coast meeting in 1940."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The transportable transformers of various sizes and voltages manufactured through the foresight of the General Electricity Board contributed to the fact that so little disruption of power supply was experienced in England despite frequent bombings. The availability of such transformers resulted in the electricity supply's being reinstated in a very short time after disastrous enemy action, according to the Electrical Review, weekly London publication."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among tboce recently referred from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mau by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. AD inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"THE history and development of suitable electronic tubes and circuits for high-voltage power-conversion systems is discussed in a companion paper.1 Briefly, the first power unit after laboratory tests consisted of a 40–60-cycle 5,000-kw power converter. The tubes for this unit were of the thyratron∗ type. The nonsynchronous link operated at a direct potential of 30,000 volts and a current of approximately 170 amperes. Power from the 40-cycle system was converted to direct current through 12 phano-tron tubes connected in a cascade arrangement of two three-phase double-way rectifier circuits. The direct current was converted to 60-cycle a-c power through 12 thyratrons connected in a similar arrangement of double-way inverter circuits. Initial operation was remarkably free from any basic trouble. Operation over a period of some five years demonstrated the complete practicability of sealed electronic tubes for this type of service."
"A DRY-TYPE transformer may be defined as a transformer devoid of all liquids and one whose core and coils and associated parts are cooled by the natural or forced circulation of air."
"THIS interim report was prepared by the working group on bibliography of the relay subcommittee of the AIEE committee on protective devices, in order to make immediately available this material to the entire industry. Previously it has been available only to the relay subcommittee in annual reports and then published at ten-year intervals. However, it was felt that the urgency of the relay problems brought about by the war emergency makes it desirable to have this information more generally available."
"IN 1937 Arnold1 published an analytic procedure enabling the designer of a single-phase two conductor bus to determine combinations of conductor spacing and cross section that render the proximity effect zero — hence combinations that render the a-c resistance, and thus the eddy current loss, a minimum. For explicit details the reader is referred to Arnold's paper. For our purpose it suffices to remark that in general the designer is afforded an indefinite number of combinations (of conductor spacing and cross section) from which to choose; that the exact cross sections determined by the theory are not simple in shape; that as the ratio of conductor spacing to perimeter of conductor cross section increases, the equivalent structural shape associated with a particular conductor spacing shifts from rectangular strap to channel to circular or square tubular conductor, that the ac resistance, and hence the eddy-current loss, can be calculated from a given simple formula; and that the accuracy of this formula and the correctness of the general theory are verified by experimental data set forth in the paper."
"DURING the past few years the progress made in reducing vibration in electric machinery has resulted in more freedom from mechanical failures and other maintenance troubles. The more quiet machines which result from reduced vibration also produce less nervous strain to the operate. The generally accepted theory of vibration is based on the premise that vibration and noise arise from forces which act in a periodic manner upon the different component parts of the machine. Such forces are called “driving forces.” and the actual mechanical displacement or vibration which results is frequently called the “vibrational response.” The amplitude of the vibrationa1 response depends upon the amplitude of the driving forces as well as upon the mass, stiffness, and damping factors associated with the vibrating member. While this fundamental concept is quite simple, yet to account for particular types of vibration which are produced in electrical equipment and mechanical rotating assemblies is sometimes quite difficult."
"SPACE heating of dwellings has been one of the prime necessities in the improved living conditions of the human race and one that has received considerable study from the earliest time. As the various heating methods were developed, from the early open fireplace to modern heating equipment, utility and esthetic designs for the heating equipment were given a great deal of consideration."
"MANY complex thermal and mechanical influences govern the relationship between electrical loading and the movement of cable in an underground conduit line. It is probable therefore that a knowledge of the relationship will come only through the analysis of many careful observations of the movement of cable in conduits of different types and in different locations and also under the influence of electrical loadings of various magnitudes and durations. It is apparent that engineers now appreciate the importance of a knowledge of the factors that influence cable movement as well as of the control of these factors as a requisite for higher loading of cables that operate under the load factors normally encountered."
"A NUMBER of load curves may be added to determine some characteristics of a composite load from known values of the individual loads which comprise it. The resulting peak load, minimum load, load factor, or time of the peak are characteristics usually sought, but there may be many others."
"THE topic “Electrically operated gyroscopic instruments” covers a very wide and interesting field in which our work includes, for the most part, instruments and systems closely associated with aircraft, navigation, and control."
"MUCH has been written about the copper-oxide rectifier during the 23 years of its existence, yet the subject is far from exhausted. It still remains one of the most interesting developments of recent years. A brief résumé of its history may be of interest."
"A HEARING AID is a miniature sound-amplifying system which is worn on the person in order to help overcome the handicap of impaired hearing. To be effective a hearing aid must be capable of amplifying those frequencies necessary for intelligibility of speech and reproducing them at a high-intensity level so as to make normal conversation audible to the person with impaired hearing. Modern hearing-aid amplifiers are of the vacuum-tube type, using small tubes designed specifically for them. A complete hearing aid consists of a microphone, a vacuum-tube amplifier, a receiver, and the necessary battery supply and connecting cords. Usually the microphone and amplifier unit are housed in a single case and the receiver and battery supply are connected to the amplifier by means of flexible cords. In order to determine the amount of amplification necessary, the type of frequency response needed, and the sound-pressure output required, it will be necessary to consider in some detail the different types of partial deafness and the characteristics of speech and hearing."
"THE generation of heat within the iron core of a power transformer is termed the core loss, which is one form of induction heating. It is customary to divide the core loss into hysteresis and eddy-current loss. The hysteresis loss is a characteristic property of ferromagnetic materials, whereas the eddy-current loss is an I2R loss due to current circulation in the material, resulting from electromotive forces induced by the varying induction. Replacing the iron of the core by a nonmagnetic metal will eliminate the hysteresis loss, but eddy currents will still be induced and heat generated. Hence, magnetic as well as nonmagnetic metals respond to induction heating."
"THE general definition of induction heating is the use of eddy currents to raise the temperature of a conducting mass. Thus induction heating is an application of the theory of the eddy-current phenomenon."
"FLUORESCENT lamps always have been considered desirable for general lighting within the airplane in order to reduce power consumption and utilize the long thin tubular-light sources that fit in so well in the interior of an airplane. Four-hundred-cycle operation has been found by Hays1,2 to be excellent for fluorescent lamps, providing about 20 per cent greater efficiency than the 60-cycle alternating current for which these lamps were created originally and reducing the size and weight of the ballasts required. However, uncertainty as to lamp operation at low temperatures and particularly at the extremes of low temperature that might be encountered at tremendous altitudes has prevented the general use of these lamps in this field."
"IN the last few years there have been major advances in the manufacture and availability of class B insulating materials, together with improvements in the design of structures using these materials."
"USE of electric power in aircraft has grown with each succeeding year. Aircraft have become larger, and with each succeeding increase in size new and greater demands have been made for electric power. To date these demands have been met magnificently by 12-volt and 24-volt d-c systems, and there seems even reason to suppose that these systems will be in use for a long time to come. However, there is a transmission-weight penalty for a 24-volt system on large airplanes, particularly when the total load is high. Therefore, with an eye to the very large planes of the future, the aircraft industry has been fostering the development of two new electric systems, namely, a 115-volt d-c system, and a 208-volt three-phase 400-cycle system. Either of these two proposed systems will reduce greatly the weight of the electric wiring, and each system has its own special merits."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"ON the basis of our experience in engineering and industry, we consider that the proposal of the Secretary of the Treasury for the control of postwar Germany by the destruction or virtual dissolution of her industrial plant is economically unsound and contains the seeds of a new war. We believe that the part played by over 75,000 members of these societies in the design, engineering and production of the implements for our Armed Forces in quantities adequate for Victory, as well as our long experience as engineering industrialists in peacetime, entitle us to speak on this subject of paramount importance to the peace of the world."
"THE PROBLEM of efficient operation of hydroelectric systems is one which must be familiar to all engineers engaged in the operation of such power systems, but it does not appear to be given very much attention in the technical press or other publications. One sees frequent mention of the high efficiency of steam-electric stations, generally given to the second or third decimal place, and the loading schedules for such stations usually are based on a detailed analysis of incremental costs. Descriptions of hydroelectric plants, however, are generally limited to the size of the units and spectacular details of the construction."
"AT THE PRESENT time there is a very fine opportunity for the application of real engineering skill in the extension of the use of electric power in airplanes. Until very recent years airplanes in general have been relatively small and uncomplicated. Control operations could be accomplished readily by direct mechanical means, and such simple electrical functions as came to hand were taken care of adequately by low-voltage battery-magneto systems analogous to those used in automobiles. However, with the very large and very fast airplanes now being developed, problems arise for which electricity presents many interesting possibilities."
"THE Richmond yard 2 of the Permanente Metal Corporation has been using a high-power public-address system for 24 months. With more than 2,000 paging calls each day, it has been highly successful. The calls are limited to those directly affecting production. Trucks, cranes, inspectors, and foremen are called to places in need of them. Much time is saved by reducing the time a crew of men has to wait for its work to pass inspection or to receive new orders. For example, the breakdown of a whirley crane means that all riggers, shipfitters, pipefitters, shipwrights, electricians, and welders must wait for needed material until the crane is repaired. As it requires specially trained electricians and mechanics, who may be scattered throughout the yard, to repair a breakdown, the public-address system is vitally important in locating these men."
"THE INSULATION FIELD is well supplied with a very large variety of materials. When these materials are used in large quantities, such as slot insulation in a motor, the uniformity of the material over a long period of time is essential. This uniformity is assured only by the adequacy of the specification and the faithfulness of the manufacture, the inspection, and the test."
"OUTSTRIPPING in capacity any other turbogenerator placed in service in the United States since Pearl Harbor, the new 147,000-kw unit 17, shown in Figure 1, at Commonwealth Edison Company's historic Fisk station in Chicago, Ill., is now running under full load and playing an important role in the job of meeting the huge power demands of war-production industries. It embraces what is claimed to be the largest single-shaft turbine in the world operating at a steam pressure of 1,250 pounds per square inch and a temperature of 925 degrees Fahrenheit."
"CREATION of the position of Engineer neer-Consultant in the Presidents Cabinet is urged by H. L. Fruend, water-control planning board, Tennessee Valley Authority, Knoxville, Tenn:, in an article published in the September 1944 issue of Civil Engineering (pages 393–4). His plan is outlined in the following paragraphs, which are quoted from the article."
"WAR is an unprofitable enterprise. However, one of the brighter sides of war is that problems and their solutions which develop from military necessity become commercial advantages. In other words, wars make better things for peace. It is quite likely that the advances in electrical-engineering art which have resulted from aviation electricity will fall into this category."
"Preparation by AIEE of an informative report dealing with the fundamental characteristics of aircraft electric systems and including lections on general system layouts, system voltages and frequencies, power supply, utilization and conversion devices, distribution systems and cable circuits, control switching and protective devices, and fault-current calculations has been decided upon. This decision was reached at meetings held in September and October in New York and at Wright Field in conjunction with the Society of Automotive Engineers, the National Aircraft Standards Committee, and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association."
"Strong indications of accelerated activity in the field of electronics after the war were much in evidence at the National Electronics Conference held in Chicago, Ill., October 5–7, 1944. More than 2,100 were registered at the conference, and capacity audiences attended the technical sessions and other activities, somewhat overtaxing some of the facilities of the Medinah Club where it was held. The conference was sponsored jointly by the Illinois Institute of Technology, Northwestern University, and the Chicago Sections of the Institute of Radio Engineers and AIEE, with the co-operation of the Chicago Technical Societies' Council. A second conference already is being planned by the same sponsors for October 1945."
"WITH the present great interest in aircraft, not only because of its wartime importance, but also because of the prominence it will have commercially after the war, as well as in postwar military needs, a careful scrutiny of the vital parts that make up the aircraft is in order. One of these parts is obviously the aircraft storage battery. It is used for engine starting, ignition, lighting, and radio."
"WHEN electric equipment is subjected to intermittent load, as in spot-, flash-, projection-, or gun-welding, it is customary to rate it according to the duty cycle1,2 under which it is to be used. This is good practice as long as we take duty cycle for what it really is: the proportion of time that the equipment is heated — or current “on” time divided by total time. But we may get into trouble by extending this definition to say that temperature rise is proportional to duty cycle — as is commonly done in rating welding equipment for intermittent load."
"IN the late 1920's, the increasing demand for fast-clearing circuit breakers brought forth the development of various types of modern arc-rupturing devices. Among others, there was developed the pulsion-chamber arc-rupturing device1 which now is in satisfactory operation in thousands of breakers. The theory of expulsion action and the performance of the expulsion-chamber breakers have been reported on frequently. Test on a 115-kv system showed arcing times of approximately 1 1/2 cycles at short-circuit capacities ranging up to 1,650,000 kva.1 Tests on a 230-kv system showed arcing times of approximately 2.5 cycles at ratings up to 1,125,000 kva.2 In the middle 1930's the practice of high-speed reclosing was introduced and is now widely accepted. Interrupting capacity tests performed on a 69-kv system showed that the expulsion-chamber arc-rupturing devices gave excellent performance in conjunction with high-speed-reclosing operation.3 Following the demand for still shorter opening time, more recently five-cycle breakers have come into wide use. On highest voltages, particularly in conjunction with switching of long lines, the use of three-cycle breakers frequently is indicated."
"SINCE 1938 low-pressure gas-filled cable has been the source of considerable discussion before meetings of the Institute and other technical associations. Papers presented by Shanklin in 19391 and 19422 and an unpublished paper by Del Mar and Gambitta in 1943 discussed the theoretical aspects of a cable utilizing gas as pressure medium and presented extensive laboratory test data on the expected life of this type of cable. From these data it was indicated that if low-pressure gas-filled cable is operated at an average stress of less than 75 volts per mil and at a minimum gas pressure of ten pounds per square inch satisfactory operation may be expected."
"RADIO noise may be defined as radio-frequency energy which interferes with the reception of desired signals. This interference can be the result of: 1. Atmospheric electrical discharges which result in radiated radio frequency energy. 2. Periodic corona discharges from the airplane which cause intense electric induction fields close to the receiving antennas. 3. Receiver internal noise due to thermal agitation in the receiver input resistance and shot effect in the low-level radio-frequency stages.1 4. Electrical transients which result from the operation of electrical equipment."
"CONSIDERABLE interest has been shown in the development of flashing position lights as displayed on air-carrier aircraft at night and this paper is devoted to an explanation of changing trends in aircraft position lighting and the developmental work which finally resulted in the use of these flashing lights."
"THIS war has seen an unprecedented development of armament, both offensive and defensive, for military aircraft. One of the most widely used and, therefore, perhaps one of the most important of these has been the power-driven gun turret, three or four of which are used on all our heavy bombers, and one or more on most smaller bombers and equivalent planes. This paper briefly surveys the field of electric-drive equipment for turrets to give a picture of the types and variety of equipment now in use and the requirements made of it, together with a description of how it works."
"CURRENT bibliographies on aircraft instruments list a reference to an early article dated 1904–40 years ago. This paper, describing an altimeter, has been followed by thousands more indicating the interest and technical advancements in aircraft instruments. The needs of the aircraft industry have been met by the instrument manufacturers. Developments in instruments have paralleled the rapid developments in aircraft due to the close co-operation of measurement and aeronautical engineers. A typical aircraft instrument panel is shown in Figure 1."
"THIS paper covers the development in broad outline of electric generating equipment and systems on British aircraft from the 1920's up to the present time. The coverage, of necessity, must be very sketchy, but it is hoped that outlining British development in its approximate chronological order may be helpful in comparison with American development over the same period. No attempt will be made to go into great detail, and so pictures and curves have been omitted."
"ELECTRIC wiring designed for aircraft probably is required to withstand a wider range of operating conditions than most other types of electric wiring. This is not surprising since present airplanes, both combat and commercial types, are expected to be able to fly anywhere in the world under all kinds of weather conditions. Repair of a damaged airplane in remote parts of the world must be accomplished with a minimum of replacement parts, and probably only basic tools, such as screw driver, pliers, hammer, and wrench. In many cases repairs can be made only by salvaging parts from other airplanes. If the original electric wiring of an airplane is properly designed, installed, and protected against damage due to overloads, short circuits, insulation failure, abrasion, fluids, and fungus growth, and so forth, a great deal of wire replacement and maintenance will have been eliminated in both combat and commercial types of aircraft, although in combat airplanes the larger percentage of wire replacement is caused by gunfire damage."
"DESIGN requirements for electric motors intended for use on aircraft maybe classified roughly into performance and construction. These two classifications are not completely independent of one another, as some of the construction requirements will have pronounced effect on the performance characteristics, Performance characteristics may be subdivided into the following headings:"
"IN their order of importance the factors which influence the design of an electric actuator for use on aircraft are:"
"ALTERNATING current has replaced direct current in large commercial power systems because large amounts of power can be transmitted long distances more economically; alternating voltages can be stepped up or down at will by a transformer; and the polyphase squirrel-cage induction motor, which employs no brushes, is so simple and reliable. These advantages, which also apply in aircraft use, have caused a long-continued interest in a-c systems.1,6 While this interest is particularly strong now, it is to be remembered that the use of a-c systems in aircraft dates back to World War I when wind-driven alternators with built-in spark gap were used to supply power for radio transmitters. More than ten years ago 600-watt alternators driven by a main engine through a constant-speed drive, were used by the Navy. Prior to the present war two different a-c systems were tried experimentally in different planes: one of these was a single-phase 800-cycle system, the other, a three-phase 120-volt 400-cycle system. Rectified a-c systems with 30-volt d-c outputs of 200–800 amperes have also been proposed.3"
"AN ENGINEER needs a goal. In this respect he is no different from the follower of any other profession, art, or trade. Having a goal, every effort and project becomes a step in the final achievement. It is the purpose of this paper to suggest some goals which are on the horizon today. When these goals are reached, it is quite likely that new horizons can be seen. However, let tomorrow take care of itself."
"THE rapid development of military aircraft during the past three years has been accompanied by an equally vigorous development and use of electric motors and generators necessary for their operation and control. This dynamoelectric equipment covers not only the d-c and a-c applications but also a wide range of power output, voltage, current, and speed. Some of the d-c machines are compensated fully for best commutation, while others are partially compensated, and still others are without compensation and depend on the brush shift and brush grade for satisfactory operation."
"THE use of 400-cycle alternating current1 as a power source on large aircraft originates the problem of adequate instrumentation at the distribution panel. Load conditions on a d-c system are determined by the simple parameters of voltage and current, whereas those of the a-c system include frequency and active and reactive power, in addition to voltage and current. Specifically, the flight engineer will require the following information for intelligent operation of the system:"
"DISTANCE-TYPE transmission-line relays have been used very successfully for a number of years. Several different distance-type characteristics have been available. Among these characteristics are the impedance relay which measures impedance substantially independent of the phase angle, the reactance relay which responds only to the reactive component of the impedance, and a third characteristic which responds to a compromise between pure impedance and reactance. Another type of relay characteristic which combines impedance measurement with a directional indication has been used for a number of years as a fault-detector element to supervise another distance-measuring element."
"WITH the increase in size of modern military aircraft and the complexities of its equipment, it has been necessary to enlarge greatly its electric system. Up to the time of the beginning of the second World War in Europe, the Tirrell and step-type regulators were used universally to regulate the voltage of aircraft generators, alternators, and motor generator sets. With the coming of light-weight 30-volt 100- and 200-ampere generators, the field current required began to exceed the limitations of the Tirrell regulator. It became apparent that a high-field-current voltage regulator would have to be developed since the appreciable weight saving gained by designing generators with high field currents is so vital to modern aircraft."
"CURRENT discussion of large aircraft electric systems has been carried on mainly in terms of commercial power distribution experience. There has been a tendency in such discussions to make blanket statements concerning the superiority of a-c systems without due consideration of direct current or aircraft-design requirements. Extrapolation of commercial practice and experience out of the field of its origin into aircraft design remains to be proved. The airplane presents a very special electrical design problem. Only when a-c systems are applied to actual aircraft designs, and after a careful competitive check made of both a-c and d-c results, are valid conclusions possible. A few facts learned from one such study on an actual airplane will be presented in this paper."
"PROBABLY no other control problem offers so many opportunities for the advantageous application of electronics as the design of equipment for automatic flight control. The type C-1 Autopilot used in the Army's heavy bombardment aircraft is a typical example of equipment in which the use of electronic devices has produced a flexible well-co-ordinated control system from what was formerly an unwieldy electromechanical machine."
"MOST large United States Army Air Forces aircraft of the present day employ the type of electric system that is outlined by the Army Air Forces specification 32300, “Installation of Electrical Equipment, General Specification for.” This is a 24–28-volt d-c single-wire grounded negative system in which the nominal rating of the batteries is 24 volts and the engine-driven generators deliver power at 28 volts. All power is fed into and taken from a common bus which interconnects all wiring of the airplane as shown in Figure 1."
"IN all military and commercial aircraft, the gyroscope is depended on for attitude and direction references. The vertical spinning gyroscope provides attitude indication in the form of the artificial horizon. At present, other attitude representations based on the vertical gyroscope are available. The use of the vertical gyroscope has been accepted for 15 years or more, and will be further improved for indication of roll and pitch but probably never superseded. The indication of azimuth, or heading of the airplane, which is actually the attitude around the vertical axis called direction, up to the present has had no standard means of presentation. In the past, magnetic compasses have been used for this purpose. These instruments for aircraft use are imperfect, and it has been found necessary to supplement this type of indication with a secondary reference in the form of a directional gyroscope. With the addition of the directional gyroscope, the inherent defects of the compass are greatly minimized. These defects are well known and can be stated as 1. Lack of stability. 2. Northerly turning error."
"AUTOMATIC pilots have been in use for many years in both commercial and military aircraft and are well suited to normal airplane control. Their greatest usefulness is in maintaining heading and attitude over long periods of time, with consequent reduction in strain on the human pilot."
"DURING the past several years there has been a definite trend by some aircraft manufacturers to eliminate hydraulic controls from combat airplanes. The vulnerability of hydraulic systems used on airplanes manufactured during this period and to a certain extent today are big factors in promoting this trend. Space requirements in the cockpit of an airplane to mount control valves and accommodate necessary piping to these valves, difficulty with packings at extremely cold temperatures, and the lack of flexibility of the control system are other factors that contributed to the aforementioned trend."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A concise explanation of the construction and theory of operation of the selenium rectifier is combined with a comprehensive discussion of the effects of various applications on design by the author."
"THE MAGNITUDE of the telegraph industry, its effect on daily life, the stimulus it has given to scientific enquiry and electrical engineering, and especially the influence it had on the formation of the AIEE, all combine to make it fitting that our Institute do Morse and his associates honor on the 100th anniversary of their first public telegraph between Baltimore, Md., and Washington, D. C. A session in recognition of the occasion was held during the 1944 AIEE summer technical meeting.1–3"
"THE USE of electricity for house heating is not new. As early as 1914, homes in the Northwest were being heated by electricity. It is estimated that by 1920 there were over 2,000 homes in Tacoma, Wash., using this means of heat. For a few years prior to the war, the use of electric heating spread rather rapidly on the west coast, particularly in central California."
"THE TERM “professional ethics”, is commonly used quite loosely but, in fact, it means “rules of right conduct in which each item is fundamental to social relations” within the scope of professional activities. It is often said that engineering is not a profession because it has been unable to agree upon a suitable code of ethics which applies through the field of all of our great engineering societies. The lawyers, through the American Bar Association many years ago, adopted a code of ethics which they have modified and added to in the interval and which has 47 items. This code is published by the Association under the tide “Canons of Professional Ethics” in a small pamphlet, along with some additional matters relating to judicial ethics. The doctors also, through the American Medical Association, have their code published by the Association in a pamphlet called “Principles of Medical Ethics,” containing 42 items. Each lawyer and physician usually possesses a copy of the pamphlet relating to his profession and cherishes it as of importance in his active life."
"IT IS HAZARDOUS to make predictions; yet it is proper at this time to consider the effect of current and postwar research on engineering developments. In spite of the glaring contrast between the role of scientific research in the period of the last war and its part in the present conflict, the experiences following World War I offer the most helpful standard in present evaluations of postwar activity."
"Arrangements are being made for the winter technical meeting, which will be held in New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, with headquarters in the Engineering Societies' Building. Many wartime developments with interesting postwar applications will be presented in some 32 technical sessions and conferences. Also during this meeting the Edison Medal will be presented. In addition the Institute of Radio Engineers will hold their winter technical meeting concurrently, January 24–27, to permit engineers interested in radio and communication work to attend both meetings in one trip. The programs of both meetings will be co-ordinated, and as in the past a joint AIEE-IRE evening session is planned."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the meeting registration desk."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"In spite of continuing wartime difficulties, further progress was reported toward the general objectives of the Engineers Council for Professional Development, at the 12th annual meeting of council held in New York, N. Y., October 20–21, 1944. As stated by Chairman Everett S. Lee (F '30) in his report to the council for the year: “This has been another substantial year for ECPD. The personal contributions to the work in this period of difficulty have been outstanding.” ECPD is a joint organization of eight national engineering societies, including AIEE, and its general objective is the enhancement of the professional status of the engineer. Its other constituent organizations are the American Society of Civil Engineers, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the Engineering Institute of Canada, Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education, and the National Council of State Boards of Engineering Examiners."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"The new British system uses ultraviolet for the illumination of the instrument markings and red floodlighting for the general illumination of the cockpit. The scientific basis for this system, which is known as the dual system of cockpit lighting, is discussed, and some details of the fittings are given. Particular emphasis is laid on the layout of the cockpit, correct layout being regarded as the most important single factor for the success of the whole system."
"SERVOMECHANISMS include many familiar regulator systems. The simple float valve controlling water level in a tank and the voltage regulator in reality are servomechanisms. The war has brought about many important new applications including: holding airplanes and ships on predetermined courses; stabilizing and rotating guns; producing exact duplicates of intricate patterns and dies; indicating flap or landing-gear position; and a multitude of others. Probably the most common servomechanism system is that which matches the position of a high-torque shaft to that of a low-torque shaft. This will be referred to as an angular-position servomechanism. By means of this servomechanism the high power required to operate a gun turret can be controlled so that the gun accurately matches the position of a low-power hand-operated sight. Whether the operating power is electric, hydraulic, or a combination of these or other types of power, the analysis to follow provides a basis for obtaining servomechanism performance in terms of basic design parameters."
"SEVERAL papers have been presented describing the reason for the selection of 400-cycle three-phase service for motors aboard aircraft. In view of the fact that the decision has been made to use 400 cycles, the purpose of this paper is to present some of the motor-design problems to the men who must write the specifications for these motors. A better general understanding of the performance to be expected from 400-cycle induction motors will help both the aircraft electrical engineer and the motor designer."
"FOR many years there has been a need for a relatively simple field method for testing bushing current transformers for accuracy."
"THE present aircraft electric system uses 24 volts direct current; the future system will assuredly be of a higher voltage as aircraft and their generating systems increase in size. Whether it be direct current or alternating current depends on the relative merits of each.1 If the new system be alternating current the problem of arc interruption is not difficult. If the new system be direct current and above 24 volts, it has been assumed that the arc-interruption problem at altitude would be quite difficult. There is, however, little quantitative data available to bear this out. An investigation was therefore initiated to obtain preliminary data on arc-interruption problems introduced by the use of higher d-c voltages."
"ELECTRIC systems as used on aircraft have developed from a more or less accessory status in older types of aircraft to a place of prominence in modern types of such importance that safety of operation is often dependent to a limited extent on electric-system reliability. Because of its importance the general requirements of the electric system must be conceived for a proposed new airplane design when the design is in an embryonic state. Preliminary electric-load requirements must be calculated and, as design changes are made, must be revised repeatedly in order to co-ordinate properly the electric-system design with the other design characteristics of the airplane."
"EVER since the first application of the electric motor on aircraft, attempts have been made to adapt clutches and braking devices to the motor and its power transmission system with varying degrees of success. Some current objectives are: 1. To limit overtravel of and incorporate accurate positioning in a mechanism, such as landing gears, cowl, or wing flaps of an airplane."
"THE increasing use of electrical equipment in modern aircraft has in its train focused attention on the distribution system. The major items of electrical equipment in British aircraft generally are supplied to the aircraft constructor as government-approved items. It will be obvious that their correct functioning depends upon the wiring installation which serves them. The size, shape, and equipment layout of an airplane does not lend itself readily to an orderly and well-spaced electric installation. The concentration into certain relatively small areas, peculiar in shape, of a large number of electrical items concerned with navigation, control, offense, and defense, is inevitable and constitutes a major problem for the designer. It is perhaps difficult to appreciate that in a modern four-engined bomber, some 4 1/2 miles of single-core electric cable would be required and in a fully equipped two-engined aircraft, 2 1/2 miles would be used. The problem of accommodation and efficient installation of this amount of wiring demands careful thought and planning. It is unfortunate that even up to the present day too little thought has been given to providing an orderly and well-engineered wiring installation and to ensuring well-protected cable routes. The impression still persists in some quarters that electric cables, being flexible, can be moved and disturbed at will to give pride of place to other more clamorous demands. This has resulted in wiring being “slung in” and is responsible for a high percentage of electric failures directly attributable to faulty location of wiring and equipment in situations where ingress of moisture, mechanical damage by air crew, and deterioration by extreme heat all have made their contributions. The Ministry of Aircraft Production, Directorate of Technical Development, now has specified design requirements in this connection which should mitigate, if not entirely overcome, such trouble in future installations."
"“ANNOUNCING the departure of trip 23, Nashville-Memphis-Phoenix-Los Angeles, leaving at gate 6, all aboard, please.” In a matter of minutes after this announcement an airliner departs on schedule to carry some 5,000 pounds of passengers and cargo over rivers, mountains, and cities and to deposit them safely at the destination. Another routine flight has been made possible by the combined efforts of a small army of airline employees."
"AN electric system is as good as its electric connections. Poor electric connections on aircraft easily can cancel the tremendous advantages obtained by the use of electric systems. Little attention is given to this unglamorous but vital subject because of the more absorbing and interesting details of the electric system as a whole. Only after an unexpected and disconcerting electric-connection failure in service does the engineer realize its importance. Such failures on domestic appliances are not generally serious but on aircraft may involve many lives, much valuable equipment, and, in fact, the success of our war effort."
"THE presentation of a paper on electric aircraft apparatus by manufacturers of hydraulic control equipment is very likely to lead to a discussion1,5 of the relative advantages and disadvantages of hydraulic and electric systems for accessory actuation. Let us evade this controversy for the present by stating that the writers are not advocating either an all-electric or all-hydraulic system but are describing a type of device that makes possible the utilization of some of the best features of both forms of power."
"ONE of the common uses of capacitors is by-passing high-frequency current from circuits in which direct or low-frequency current is flowing. The frequency range over which it is effective as a by-pass depends upon the relative impedance of the capacitor and the impedance across which it is connected. The impedance of a capacitor at a given frequency is determined by its capacitance, inductance, and resistance. At low frequencies the impedance is largely determined by the capacitance, but at high frequencies and thus in most by-passing applications, lead inductance and the inherent inductance of the capacitor become the controlling factors."
"THE modern high-voltage magnetos installed on a 2,000-horsepower aircraft engine may not resemble externally the crude induction coil used by Lenoir in 1860 to provide ignition for his gas engine. Yet, both make use of the same method to generate a transient voltage high enough to fire the spark plug. A current is first established in a primary winding surrounding a core of magnetic material and then suddenly interrupted. This interruption produces a high rate of change of flux through a secondary coil wound with a large number of turns, thus inducing a high voltage that is transmitted to the spark plug."
"IN 1925, introduction of thermostatic protection to domestic flatirons revolutionized the flatiron industry. In 1928, disk-type thermostats were built into a portable-tool motor to provide built-in thermal protection. Two or three years later, thermostats were used to provide built-in overload protection for single-phase induction motors. Since that time, a quiet revolution has been taking place in the fractional horsepower motor industry, in the form of an ever-increasing use of these built-in thermal protective devices. By 1939, the Underwriters' Laboratories had become interested, and in June of that year, after conferring with electrical manufacturers making and using such devices, the Underwriters' Laboratories wrote a standard for inherent overheating protective devices; this standard was incorporated as an appendix to the Underwriters' standard for industrial control equipment. If the present trend to thermal protection of motors continues, nearly all domestic fractional-horsepower motors will eventually be provided with inherent overheating protection."
"THE primary role of the multicontact electric-cable connector is to disconnect and break electric circuits rapidly. It is also used as a means of switching circuits."
"IN brush-life testing on machines, many confusing, conflicting, and variable results are observed even under normal atmospheric conditions. These uncertainties are increased greatly in high-altitude tests. Many tests by various laboratories have shown that most brushes are affected greatly by the changes in humidity, oxygen content, or pressure of the surrounding air. It is a common experience for carbon brushes to wear away at extreme rates up to half an inch or more per hour when run on high-speed commutators or slip rings in extremely dry atmospheres."
"IN the last few years solderless terminals have found an increasingly wide application. The fields of application include aircraft, shipboard, communication, and general industrial work. One of the most important reasons for their increasing use is the substantially decreased labor required in their application, as compared to soldered terminals. The use of solderless terminals also gives assurance of a greater degree of uniformity with respect to both mechanical and electrical properties for the terminal conditions of the electric circuit. Furthermore, these terminals are more readily adaptable for such improvements as insulation supports for the wire insulation to which the solderless terminal is crimped and the use of a preinsulated terminal. In general, the use of solderless terminals in both manufacture and application permits machine production and uniformity as compared to handwork necessary for soldered terminals."
"THE automatic pilot is, as its name implies, a mechanism capable of automatically piloting an aircraft and maintaining it on a course, despite disturbances in the surrounding air.1 Such terms as “relief pilots,” “maneuvering pilots,” “hard or soft pilots,” are used to classify apparatus which accomplishes this result. Relief pilots are intended to relieve the strain on the human pilot mainly during straight level flight and are more simple than the maneuvering type of pilot. Hard pilots are designed to hold a given course or attitude rigidly without consideration for the comfort of the passengers and crew. The soft pilot, on the other hand, holds the general course and attitude but without uncomfortably jarring the personnel. Some designs of automatic pilots incorporate all the features of relief, maneuvering, and hard or soft control."
"DURING the interruption of direct currents in circuits having inductance, the presence of high-voltage peaks or “inductive kicks” is quite commonly recognized in a qualitative sense. There is however little quantitative data on this subject, particularly at the voltages, loads, and altitudes encountered on modern aircraft."
"THE subject of radio-noise elimination on aircraft has always been a controversial one, even when the frequencies involved were relatively low. With the introduction of very high-frequency equipment the controversy has started afresh. The presence of radio noise in very high-frequency installations has caused observers to forget the principles learned in the work at medium frequency and high frequency, simply because the very high-frequency installation apparently did not follow the same rules that applied to the lower-frequency equipment. It is the purpose of this paper to outline generally the principles of radio-noise elimination at all frequencies, and show how these same principles apply specifically at very high frequency."
"THE proper functioning of electric equipment is of prime importance in the operation of the military and naval airplane of today. The wide use of such equipment and the continual increase in the operating altitude of aircraft make it essential that the factors affecting the operation of electric apparatus at high altitudes be investigated if the apparatus is to be designed properly for this new and expanding application."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Higher-voltage d-c and 400-cycle a-c electric systems are being developed for large aircraft with increased electrical load order to obtain lower conductor weights than would be required with the present 28.5-volt system. In view of the apparent freedom from sustained faults in low-voltage a-c systems despite damage from gunfire, the use of protective devices to isolate aulted cables has been considered unnecesary. The need for protective devices on the higher-voltage systems will depend on the relative behavior of faults and the required clearing time."
"METAL-TANK mercury-arc rectifiers have been in commercial use abroad since 1911, and in the United States since 1925. (There were several earlier experimental installations in this country, in 1913 and 1915.) Until recent years, all rectifiers were of the multianode type, with 6, 12, and 18 anodes in one tank. The trend had been to increase the number of anodes per tank to obtain a higher current rating per rectifier, and in Europe rectifiers with 24 anodes in one tank were developed. This trend was reversed in the United States with the introduction of the single-anode ignitron-type rectifier. The single-anode rectifiers are assembled in groups of 6 or 12 to make up one unit."
"The operation of air-damping cylinders in restraining oscillation of a pendulum system is studied by experimental and analytical methods. On account of fundamental differences which are shown exist between such cylinders and other damping devices the design of cylinders follow certain dimensional require which are dictated by the dynamics of the whole oscillating system. These considerations determine the minimum size cylinder which can be used in a given application and also the piston clearance which gives maximum damping effect."
"THIS paper discusses certain methods developed some years ago employing electromagnetic forces for treating and casting metals.1,2 The method of treatment is considerably more effective than any other internal-force action so far used for impurity elimination in metals. The electromagnetic forces used in the molten metal produce an effect equivalent to increasing its density many times without change in the density of the impurities. Other effects produced in the metal are an effective overcoming of viscosity, even in those metals noted for a high degree of viscosity, and a temperature gradient enabling progressive solidification in the direction of travel of the impurities to the surface."
"New conditions, imposed by the rapid advancement in aviation, have challenged industry to develop instruments capable of meeting rigid war requirements. This paper describes by general treatment and by reference to examples, how the design features of aircraft instruments have been influenced by wide ranges of operating temperatures, extreme conditions of shock and vibration, extension of altitude ranges, worldwide climatic conditions, adoption of new power supplies for aircraft, standardization of mechanical features necessary because of large-scale use, and the requirements of servicing. The design features discussed are generally applicable to all aircraft instruments."
"Impulse testing of transformers has resulted in improvement of design and manufacturing methods. Not only should the test methods now given in American Standard C57.2 be simplified to effect a reduction in cost of tests, but the test code should be modified to give an adequate assurance of failure detection. The importance of failure detection and means available at present are discussed at length. A new method is proposed which is more sensitive than the older methods and appears to be less subject to individual interpretation."
"THE system load of an electric power company may be regarded as having several components. Firstly, there is a fixed component of the system load that may be considered as reflecting the business activity of the territory of the company. Secondly, there is a variable component of the load that reflects the effect of the weather. Thirdly, there is a component of load, relatively infrequent in occurrence, that reflects the public response to events of unusual attraction. There is the positive effect on the load of the appeal of radio broadcasts of great local or national interest and the negative effect that evidences the influx of the buying public into shopping areas which reaches its peak in the Christmas period."
"The telegraph, which is the oldest electrical industry, celebrated its centennial on May 24, 1944. Technically, its operations have changed greatly during recent years, but the only data which have been published regarding such changes pertain to specific applications or developments. The present paper is intended to present an over-all picture of American telegraphy as it is conducted today by the one company which is engaged solely in the domestic telegraph business."
"This paper on “Telegraphy in the bell system” is a companion paper for the one prepared by the representatives of the Western Union Telegraph Company on “American Telegraphy After 100 Years” and the one by representatives of the International Telephone and Telegraph Company on “Developments in the Field of Cable and Radiotelegraph Communications.” This paper reviews some of the activities in telegraphy carried on by the various units of the Bell System in connection with the furnishing of private-line telegraph and teletypewriter exchange service. Frequent reference is made to the various publications covering these activities, and only those items which have not been disclosed previously are covered in any detail."
"FOUR record-communication operating organizations constitute the far-flung system of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation which provides telegraphic connections between the continental United States and the outside world. These companies are: All America Cables and Radio, Inc. The Commercial Cable Company The Commercial Pacific Cable Company The Mackay Radio and Telegraph Company and operate as a group under the management of the American Cable and Radio Corporation. A brief historical review of each company follows."
"THE general principles employed in the analysis of rectifier circuits have been quite fully covered in the literature and are now well understood. However, there is not available a complete analysis giving the essential formulas in a systematic and unified form readily usable by the engineer. It is the purpose of this paper to present such a treatment."
"The installation of the first 20,000-kw electronic power converter was made in December 1943 at the Edgar Thompson plant of the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation to exchange power between their 25-cycle 44-kv and 60-cycle 69-kv systems, the latter being connected to a large public utility. The converter operates in parallel on both systems with normal generators. This type of converter was selected to obtain its ease and simplicity of control, low contributions to faults, light weight of indoor equipment, high efficiency, and ability to transfer a fixed value of power regardless of departure from normal frequency ratio between the two systems. The converter may have its power output controlled manually or by a power regulator or may reduce the demands for power taken from the 60-cycle utility system. Controls also may be supplied to a typical electronic converter to cause it to share the total load of the receiving system in a predetermined proportion with prime movers. Inherently transferring power in a preselected direction in relation to the departure from normal voltage ratios of the two systems, automatic phase control of grid excitation rapidly compensates for changes in this ratio. The reactive kilovolt-amperes needed for commutation, harmonics, and transformer magletizing current of both rectifier and intrter is supplied by the synchronous machinery in the steel company's systems."
"THIS paper discusses the circuit arrangement and design features of an electronic-frequency-changer station for interchanging power between the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation's 25-cycle system and their 60-cycle system. The transfer of power by rectification and inversion has been discussed in a companion paper by Cramer, Morton and Darling.1 The reader should consult their paper to obtain a clear picture of the power flow from alternating to direct current in the rectifier and from direct to alternating current in the inverter. The operating requirements as presented in the Cramer, Morton and Darling paper may be summarized as follows: 1. The direction of power flow must be reversible at will. 2. The load must be independent of system frequency and small variations in system voltage. 3. It must be possible to atijust the load to any desired value for either direction of power flew."
"THE design of the various component parts of a power-distribution system to obtain low cost has been discussed at length in many published articles. These have, in general, considered either specific parts of the system only, or all parts of the system but for only one specific set of conditions, such as load density, system voltages, continuity of service, and so forth. It is the purpose of this paper to present a generalized method of approach to the consideration of power-distribution-system costs for various combinations of conditions when considering collectively the costs of each of the three basic elements which make up the so-called distribution system. These elements are: 1. The subtransmission circuits supplying the distribution substations. 2. The substations which transform from the subtransmission to the primary voltage. 3. The primary distribution system."
"THE use of radiation as a means of establishing comfort conditions in an occupied space is not a new idea to the electrical engineer. Small incandescent electric heaters have long been used as radiant sources capable of providing spot heating with a minimum time lag and of achieving a locally comfortable environment in a space where the air temperature is lower than 70 degrees Fahrenheit. With respect to both of these characteristics such heating units resemble the open fireplace and are subject to its disadvantages as well as its advantages. On the negative side must be considered the high intensity of the source with consequent difficulty in obtaining a satisfactory uniformity of heating effect."
"A re-entrant cylindrical cavity has been adapted to measure the dielectric constant and power factor of small disk samples of insulating materials. The methods of measurement, mechanical details, and electric coupling and detecting circuits all are described. A single cavity can be utilized only over a frequency range of about 1.5 ratio from lowest to highest frequency. Therefore, several different-sized cavities would be required to cover a range of frequency from 50 to 1,000 megacycles. An accuracy of = 0.00005 in tan δ and = 1 per cent in dielectric constant may be obtained in routine measurements. Because the cavity has a very high Q(&>2,000), it is much more sensitive to low-power-factor dielectric samples than any conventional coil-and-capacitor resonant circuit."
"This paper attempts to clarify the effect of various controlling conditions on the magnitude of the evaluation constants used to select the optimum prime mover to be added to a system with a growing load. A hypothetical load has been set up which is assumed to grow at a known constant rate. Fixing on a policy of equal-sized units, two-unit installed reserve, and one-unit operating reserve regardless of load magnitude the progress of the individual generating units from the base to the top of the load curve can be readily studied. With the fundamental mechanics of the problem delineated the effects of unit availability, unit life span, rate of load growth, load cycle, load factor, unit capacity, and system reserve policy are analyzed."
"THE growth in the use of electrically driven auxiliaries on shipboard has produced very large increases in the installed generating capacity. This fact together with the necessity for maintaining a high degree of reliability and continuity of service in shipboard powerdistribution systems has emphasized the importance of providing adequate fault protection. Such protection is concerned primarily with the automatic isolation of a fault with minimum damage and with minimum disturbance to the remainder of the system. It is the purpose of this paper to develop some of the fundamental considerations in fault protection on shipboard and to establish the basic principles and methods for the selection and arrangement of the various protective devices to achieve a complete and co-ordinated protective system. The discussion will be restricted to low-voltage (600 volts or less) a-c systems although many of the principles are also equally applicable to d-c systems."
"Results of a field survey and laboratory tests are presented in this paper showing the relationships between loading, conductor-temperature changes, movement in manholes and ducts, and sheath life for paper and lead cable. The record on underground 15-kv cable is included to emphasize the noninherent failures attributable to physical proportions of underground structures. Improvements in modern cable have permitted operation at increasing temperatures with few inherent failures."
"THE need for increased system kilovar capacity coincident with electrically powering our national war effort rapidly with the minimum use of critical materials and production facilities has led to the installation of capacitors in banks of the order of 25,000 kva in various locations1 in the United States."
"THE calculation of parasitic torques and forces produced by the harmonics in induction motors and salient-pole synchronous machines is based on exact knowledge of the leakage with respect to the harmonics and especially on the knowledge of the differential leakage."
"THE capacitor-discharge system of resistance welding has been used widely in the past four years because: 1. The current required to produce welds in material of a given thickness can be obtained with lower kilovolt-ampere demand on the power supply than is required by a corresponding single-phase a-c resistance welder. 2. It provides a three-phase balanced load on the powerj-supply system as compared with the single-phase load of a-c resistance welders. 3. It provides precise control of the magnitude of the welding current on successive welds in spite of varying line voltages. This is vitally necessary in the welding of aluminum."
"The magnitude and wave shape of the discharge currents in 46 direct strokes have been measured during a five-year period at 25 direct-stroke stations on structures ranging in height from 75 to 585 feet. Measurements have been made with instruments capable of recording the wave front and tail of the high-current peaks and the low-magnitude continuing currents to as low as 0.1 ampere. These data are correlated with 138 special camera photographs of strokes to open ground obtained in this investigation, with similar photographs taken in South Africa and with stroke current measurements made on the Empire State Building in New York City."
"IN the fall of 1942, load predictions, based on unprecedented expansion of war activities, showed that existing generating and transmission facilities in the Virginia Public Service Company's eastern division could not supply the kilowatts and kilovars required for the spring of 1943. It was found that no kilovars would be available from the source of transmission to the area but that the kilowatt requirements could be met from the existing generating and transmission sources. It was evident that a new source of reactive current would have to be supplied."
"D-c capacitors of the impregnated-paper type play an important role in electronics equipment required by the armed services. In some of these applications good performance is required over very wide temperature ranges. A new chlorinated hydrocarbon composition which maintains reasonable capacitance constancy over a wide temperature range is described. The properties of this liquid are compared with conventional chlorinated impregnants. Since some alternating voltages usually accompany the direct voltages applied to capacitors, the a-c behavior over wide temperature and frequency ranges is described for capacitors impregnated with three different liquids. The effect of voltage and temperature on the resistance of capacitors is discussed. Considerable attention is devoted to the life behavior of capacitors impregnated with chlorinated liquids under d-c stresses at high temperatures. A life-testing procedure is described which has yielded very satisfactory results on capacitors of varying sizes and ratings. A means for prolonging the life of capacitors impregnated with chlorinated impregnants involving the addition of stabilizers is discussed. Data showing effect of a number of stabilizers are presented. Finally, some data are presented showing the effect of voltage on the life of d-c capacitors."
"This paper is an effort to state clearly and to present a solution for the problems encountered in the design of one of the vital constituents of a-c resistance-welder power supply — the low-voltage feeder. The scope of the paper is much wider, however, since the determination of design loads from the probability standpoint for the purpose of determining maximum allowable impedance and expected temperature rise is a problem encountered in the design of all equipment common to a number of resistance-welding installations."
"Pursuant to a request of the cable working group, AIEE committee on power transmission and distribution, a co-ordinated study has been made on the impulse strength of insulated power cables having various types of insulation and their accessories. The data included not only all published information, but also much privately contributed information. On the basis of these data and some supplementary tests recently made, tabulations of safe withstand impulse voltages have been prepared."
"THE loading of transmission lines depends upon many factors worthy of review at this time. With the removal of restrictions on critical materials, system engineers will give renewed consideration to their fundamental system design, and their effort may be expected to result in careful study to lower costs. This endeavor ultimately will result in standardization of apparatus and of system arrangements of proved designs. It is desirable to take a look into the future at this time, therefore, to determine what the transmission-line design loadings should be in order to make best use of the developments and experience of the past decade. This paper is devoted to an analysis and discussion of some of the important factors determining transmission-line electric loadings."
"When electric machines were taken to high altitudes of 25,000 to 40,000 feet on modern military aircraft, the brushes more rapidly, insulation sometimes failed, lubrication was uncertain, windings overheated, and other vexing problems appeared. New materials and methods were needed for this new environment."
"THE use of 200-volt three-phase 400-cycle a-c systems in large aircraft, with multiple circuits fused for fault clearing of sections, requires an accurate analysis of fault currents at all points of the system. A preliminary investigation of impedance data for 400-cycle aircraft circuits disclosed that basic data were available for certain types of impedance, but that certain impedance values required for line-to-ground faults were completely lacking. The object of this report is to complete the impedance data and to present in one complete compilation all impedance data required for analysis of faults in 400-cycle grounded-neutral aircraft systems as now proposed."
"SYNTHETIC organic plastics for electrical insulation represent one of the important contributions of the plastics industry to modern military and commercial aircraft. These materials for the most part are not used as substitutes for more suitable but scarce insulating materials, but have been selected because they possess superior mechanical and electrical properties."
"Recent designs of aircraft-radio equipment have provided for operation from existing aircraft electric systems, and little attention has been given to providing the electric system that is best suited for radio equipment use. This has been a natural and proper approach, because of the relatively small load requirements of aircraft radio. Accordingly, comparatively little attention has been given to the effects of the type of power supply on the characteristics of aircraft radio equipment. It is the authors' belief that a review of the subject is desirable at this time to assist aircraft designers in making a proper choice of the electric system to be provided on future aircraft designs, as well as possible modifications to the electric systems on aircraft now in use. This paper considers the effects of the various types of aircraft electric systems on the characteristics of the radio equipment, from the standpoints of weight, efficiency, reliability, simplicity, flexibility, and emergency operation. The various types of a-c and d-c power supplies are discussed, and consideration is given to the effects of frequency and number of phases on a-c power supplies."
"Engine-mounted aircraft generators must fit within an envelope 6 1/2 inches in diameter by 14 inches long. Electric-power requirements on military airplanes are increasing so rapidly that the most urgent assignment confronting designers of aircraft generators is that of achieving the ultimate output possible from this envelope. In 1939 the maximum rating was 1,500 watts; in 1940 the maximum rating jumped to 3,000 watts; in 1942 to 6,000 watts. A rating of 9,000 is coming into use, and a rating of 12,000 watts is likely to be possible in 1944. A rating of 15,000 watts has been mentioned. New materials, new military demands, new design ingenuity, new manufacturing techniques, and new operating experiences have all had a part in introducing more advances in this field during the past four years than were made during the approximate 20 years of generator history prior to 1938. Methods by which these advances have been accomplished are described, and possibilities for future progress are indicated."
"The first 138-kv underground transmission cables to be installed west of Chicago and the largest now in use at this voltage (except for short station runs) were placed in service during 1943 by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. While generally similar to 138-kv lines previously installed in the East this installation involves a number of novel design features which make it of more than usual interest. The paper describes these features and some of the studies of carrying capacity, cable movements, sheath voltages, oil supply and alarm, and sheath corrosion, which led to their development, and includes a summary of significant data and characteristics of the installation."
"WHAT, theoretically, should be required of a protected aircraft electric motor?"
"AS a result of the war, the installation of generators at the Grand Coulee generating station, which is located on the Columbia River in the northeastern portion of the State of Washington, has been accelerated to such an extent that the station now generates more hydroelectric energy than any other single station in the world. The station was built and is operated by the United States Bureau of Reclamation. Power from it, as well as power from the Bonneville Dam, is delivered through the transmission system of the Bonneville Power Administration to three major load centers, the Puget Sound area of western Washington, the Spokane area of eastern Washington, and the Portland area of western Oregon. Power is supplied to large electrochemical industries in each load area, as well as through high-capacity ties to the public utilities of the respective areas. The high-capacity ties create a large closely integrated system operating in synchronism in the States of Washington, Oregon, and in Northern Idaho. The combined peak load of these systems exceeds 2,400,000 kw. In the eastern section of this area there are other ties to Montana, Utah, and southern Idaho utilities. Peak load of all interconnected power systems in these five states is approximately 3,000,000 kw. However, this paper is concerned mainly with the areas in Washington, Oregon, and northern Idaho."
"AIRPLANE motor and propeller test cell design is relatively new and there has not been sufficient experience in test-cell operation to determine the most practical design. Practically every new cell is designed to differ in many respects from older ones. This condition is particularly true for the lighting systems which vary radically in design for each group of test cells that is built. The author has made a study of existing installations to determine the good and bad practices now in use so that definite and logical improvement can be made in the lighting design of future cells. In all fairness to the engineers who are responsible for the design of present test cells, it must be remembered that there has been no time for detailed study or investigations of the problem. Speed has been the order of the day, and any kind of performance was better than none. Now that we have time to catch our breath and think about doing things better, there has commenced a program of improving the lighting of the existing test cells."
"A method is proposed for determining the current capacity and the temperature of operation of cables in airplanes. The cable selected should in combination with the power plant result in the smallest weight for each electrical unit converted into useful work. A general equation is given for selecting the optimum current which is expressed in terms of the weight of the cable, power plant, and fuel; the length and resistance of the circuit, and the operating voltage of the system. The method of selection indicates that the current capacity of a cable operated for short periods without requiring additional power-plant or fuel capacity is limited by the temperature the insulation will withstand. For open wiring requiring power-plant capacity bare copper conductors should operate from 50 to 65 degrees centigrade above ambient temperature, and insulated copper conductors 10 to 25 degrees centigrade lower. The temperature of the conductors in conduit will depend upon the installation. Measurements made upon two samples of cable in 0.5-inch conduit indicated that the conductors should operate at 45 to 80 degrees centigrade above ambient temperature. All bus bars and conduit should be enameled or painted to reduce their operating temperatures. Measurements upon an aluminum-alloy tube indicated a drop of 35 degrees centigrade in 100 degrees. The greatest reduction in weight of the electric system will be accomplished by increasing the voltage. Further reductions may be accomplished by using aluminum conductors. If strip conductors are used terminal connectors may be eliminated and the connecting of aluminum conductors simplified."
"Flight and laboratory tests are in progress to determine changes in design of aircraft generators which will improve their resistance to vibration-fatigue failure. Vibrations near mountings of generator voltage regulators and reverse-current relays are being measured to provide data for design and testing of these accessories."
"Induction heating by radio frequency is taking its place rapidly in many industrial processes. The high-power vacuum tube, in the past used only in radio applications, is now generating radio-frequency energy for industrial use. To apply this energy properly to industrial-heating problems, it becomes necessary that engineers active in all phases of industry understand the characteristics and limitations of the vacuum-tube radio-frequency generator. The fundamentals of the vacuum-tube self-excited oscillator and design considerations which determine the characteristics of the radio-frequency generator are reviewed and illustrated. In general, the characteristics show a high-impedance constant-current variable-voltage generator which requires manipulation of load circuits to load the generator properly. Methods are illustrated for accomplishing proper loading, and numerical examples are given illustrating the formulas and procedures necessary to any induction-heating problems."
"THE efficiency of our air forces can be reduced very materially by physical discomfort1 especially from the effects of severe cold. To be able to aim and fire machine guns and to operate bombsights and navigation instruments calls for finger dexterity and a mind and body not numbed by the cold found at high altitudes. Tests and experience have demonstrated that heated clothing will keep an inactive man comfortably warm for many hours at subzero temperatures. Such clothing was used to a small extent in the first World War and is used by all belligerents in this war. While many of our military craft have heating systems utilizing either engine heat or combustion heaters, not all parts of the ship can be heated, especially exposed positions where gunners are located. For these men, and for all the crew because of possible failure of the airplane heating system, electrically heated clothing is an important item in aerial warfare wherever subfreezing temperatures exist."
"The paper deals with the increasing use of electricity as a source of power for operation of services in large transport aircraft. It outlines the advantages which are obtained from the use of medium-frequency a-c electricity and stresses the saving in weight which is obtainable from raising the present voltage (30 volts direct current) to around 200. Some suggestions are made in regard to form and layout for postwar installations in the case of both land airplanes and flying boats of the larger sizes."
"THE designer usually starts a new design by asking himself this question: “What features are absolutely required in this product for it to fulfill its function?” After this question is answered, he makes a preliminary design and often builds a model to see if the basic requirements are met. After they have been met, he asks himself a second question: “What additional features can be incorporated in this product to make it outstanding?” The final design usually, therefore, contains some features from the first category, which can be called “design requirements” and some features from the second category, which can be called “design improvements.”"
"The practicability of using 120-volt d-c power in large airplanes has been a subject of discussion for some time. This paper describes the 120-volt d-c system and the equipment used on the Navy flying boat Mars, the service requirements, and the problems incidental to development and design of the components of the system. Calculated weights for several arrangements of generating equipment including the installed system are tabulated for comparison and the weight of the installed 120-volt d-c system is compared with the weight of the 28.6-volt d-c system. A summary report on flight tests and service operations provides the basis for conclusions relative to the practicability of 120-volt direct current for large aircraft."
"THE vibration of aircraft power-plant accessories is one of those orphan problems which has been given “a thorough tossing around” for a good many years. For example, when an accessory manufacturer finds himself in the midst of an epidemic of accessory failures on a particular power-plant installation, he usually points to successful operation of the same accessory on other power-plant installations as proof of the fact that the failures are not due to a weakness in the accessory; the engine manufacturer points to other installations of the engine where the accessories are not in trouble; the airplane manufacturer easily proves that the airplane does not cause the failures."
"E. C. Starr (Oregon State College, Corvallis, Oreg.): Mr. Hansson and Mr. Waldorf have made a further addition to the growing fund of information on lightning currents, and they have made a careful analysis of the results of preventive lightning protection as practiced on their system. Additional useful information can be obtained from the data they have presented and from other relative data probably available in their files."
"C. F. Wagner (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): The principal value of this paper lies in the comparison between measured and calculated values of the constants of transmission lines. Naturally, therefore, the authors should be explicit in defining the assumptions made in the calculations. Frequently in calculating the characteristics of transmission lines the separation of conductors is taken as the values at the tangent towers. The authors in this instance have gone beyond this assumption and have averaged the separation, taking into consideration the difference in sag of the ground wires and conductors. Further clarification of the method of averaging is desirable. A statement from the authors is also desirable regarding the assumption used in determining the length of conductors. Did they use merely the geographical length of the line, or did they compute the constants on the basis of the actual length of the conductors, taking the sag into consideration? Further clarification is also desirable regarding the basis for using an earth resistivity of 100 ohms per meter cube."
"E. A. Church (Boston Edison Company, Boston, Mass.): This paper is very instructive in giving the effect of grouping in various ways on carrying capacity of cables. However, it appears that all the tests were made with cables in air or enclosed in conduits which were exposed to air where convection currents account for a part of the heat dissipation."
"H. D. Taylor (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): Mr. Noest's paper is a most interesting one and shows evidence of the great deal of thought which he must have given this intricate problem of rotor-winding distortion. Although, from a practical point of view, the general nature of this problem seems to be fairly well understood, I believe it is not susceptible to precise mathematical solution on the basis of available data. There are many other ramifications beyond those treated by Mr. Noest, including such points as: the non-uniform lengthwise distribution of compressive stress caused by partial slipping of conductors on the wedges; the variation in temperature along the length of the coils (which may be quite as important as the variation through their radial depth); and the quantitative evaluation of creep effects (or, more properly, relaxation effects)."
"R. P. Crippen (Ebasco International Corporation, New York, N. Y.): The damage that may be caused by a double ground on a 3,600-rpm rotor which short-circuits enough field-winding turns to cause severe magnetic unbalance is illustrated by the failure of a 3,000-kw generator which occurred about five years ago."
"B. J. Dalton (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): This paper has presented a rather pessimistic picture of the operation of d-c motors on rectifiers. That this picture is not actually as pessimistic as might be assumed is proved by the operating performance of hundreds of drives of this type now in operation."
"R. R. Miille (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, Lima, Ohio): Mr. Potter has described many interesting tests which should be very helpful in maintaining quality of aircraft generators. However, he does not state which ones are used as regular production tests or to what degree they are used."
"Discussion of paper 44–72 by Sydney Wimpie, presented at the AIEE North Eastern District technical meeting, Boston, Mass., April 19–20, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, July section, pages 532–3."
"J. C. Cunningham (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): One of the most effective methods of improving the fault-clearing ability of an aircraft distribution system is to replace heavy cables by two or more smaller cables in parallel. By this means the probable thermal capacity of faults is reduced without a corresponding reduction in short-circuit current. The result is a reduction in fault time, damage, and fire hazard. The increased number of circuits further increases reliability by reducing the probability of losing all circuits."
"W. E. Caldwell (nonmember; Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.; New York, N. Y.) The paper is a noteworthy contribution and effectively portrays cause and effect in evaluation procedure. The analytical treatment is rational and affords a simple approach in determining the justifiable investment factor for comparing alternate schemes of development. The importance of predictions which form the basis of evaluation is made obvious in the paper. Since evaluation studies precede initial operation of the equipment selected by about two years, it is necessary to forecast the plant operating history from a period long before it exists all the way to obsolescence."
"Percy H. Thomas (Federal Power Commission, Washington, D. C.): This paper and an earlier paper by Mr. Hamilton provide an ingenious method of estimating the effect of load factor and peaks in the summation load curve of a group of consuming appliances. This plotting of summation load curves for the information of load dispatchers may be gotten at in other ways, to advantage in some cases."
"Uriah Davis (Commonwealth Edison Company, Chicago, Ill.): Mr. Dryar's paper is an excellent analysis of the effects of weather on the total load, and the data obtained from such a breakdown, where all the conditions are known, should be useful for future planning."
"W. A. Barden (major, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The authors have prepared a very interesting and informative paper which thoroughly covers the work that has been accomplished to date in the development of subject equipment. The paper describes contactors using d-c-energized magnets. It is possible that a-c-actuated contactors would be preferred in order to eliminate the need for any d-c wiring in an airplane. This does not infer that there would be no d-c power used in such an airplane. Possibly a weight saving in the complete system could be realized by handling all power distribution as alternating current with suitable individual rectifying equipment built into those installations where d-c power proved to be essential."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 44–108 by O. C. Wal ley, presented at the AIEE summer technical meeting, St. Louis, Mo., June 26–30, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, September section, pages 632–4."
"Julian Rogoff (nonmember; Burndy Engineering Company, New York, N. Y.): Considerable misunderstanding of both the application and function of limiters in aircraft electric circuits seems to be widespread. This misunderstanding is reflected in technical papers presented to the Institute such as that by J. C. Lebens, Jr."
"E. Beck (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): The growth of statistical data, as accumulated in the widespread investigation described by Mr. McCann, provides more and more reliable information on what we may expect of lightning strokes. In fact, it is now possible to make valid estimates of the probability of lighting damage. The interpretation of these stroke data in terms of the performance of protective devices such as lightning arresters will require some further clarification and relation to similar data on the lightning currents discharged by arresters in service. At the University of Pittsburgh, one of the stroke-current measuring stations, types of lightning arresters have been connected in the stroke circuit during the several years covered by the study."
"R. L. Webb (Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., New York, N. Y.): This paper on bus design is indeed timely. Operators would find it advantageous to study bus layouts which are described here and which have been described in many other papers during the last five or six years to assist with new planning and modernization programs, which certainly will have to be faced within a few years."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 44–115 by S. B. Gary, presented at the AIEE summer technical meeting, St Louis, Mo., June 26–30, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, pages 1198–1204."
"B. M. Jones (Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): Our company has been, and is making, studies of various methods and costs of expanding its distribution system, and our conclusions match those of Mr. Falls' paper fairly closely."
"B. M. Jones (Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): This is an interesting paper, and even though we have no immediate need for such an installation, I have a few questions to ask."
"J. G. Holm (Boston Port of Embarkation, Boston, Mass.): The authors' paper is most welcome at this time, for it definitely clarifies one phase of the capacitor-condenser comparison, namely that existing when both of these are connected in shunt with the transmission line at either its receiving end or at an intermediate point."
"M. F. Gunderson (nonmember; Los Angeles, Calif.): The author states that it should be “definitely determined whether radio shielding is necessary.” In view of the incorporation of open-wire circuits in aircraft, it does not appear that battery shielding needs to be considered in future battery design — at least not in all types. Installations in many aircraft of recent design do not use the shielded junction box on the battery. However, present battery A N specifications call for battery shielding."
"W. E. Berkey (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): Magneto ignition systems on aircraft engines require extra ignition starting equipment, which is in use only a few seconds during starting, to be carried on the air-lane. It appears that engine-starting ignition boosters will be necessary, until improved engine cranking can turn over the engine at speeds sufficient to start magneto sring of the spark plugs, or until new ignition systems can be developed to fire the cylinder charge at all speeds."
"G. H. Fett (University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.): It is agreed that the term, “duty cycle,” while simple to understand and easy to use, is inadequate to rate properly intermittent loads of the type encountered in resistance welding. The duty factor as defined by the author is a big step forward in getting at the factors to be used in rating equipment."
"G. H. Fett (University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.): The authors have contributed a complete and unique solution to the problem of the design of the feeder system for resistance-welding equipment. The method takes into account the fact that there is a probability of a number of welding machines on the same feeder being in operation at the same time. One basis for the design of the feeder is that the probability that the number in operation at any one time in excess of the number for which the feeder is designed is equal to the probable number of poor welds which are permissible. This leads to what may be thought of as the most economical design of the feeder system, since the overdesign to accommodate all the machines simultaneously is avoided. In addition the authors have shown how to check the design for thermal and mechanical effects."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 44–125 by H. J. Bichsel and E. T. Hughes, presented at the AIEE summer technical meeting, St. Louis, Mo., June 26–30, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS 1944, pases 1150–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper presented at the AIEE Summer Technical Meeting, St Louis, MO, USA, 26-30 Jun 1944, and published as follows in the AIEE Transactions, 1944."
"F B. Bramhall (Western Union Telegraph Company, New York, N. Y.): Three valuable papers on record communication in this country were fittingly presented at the St. Louis summer technical meeting, a full session being devoted to the marking of 100 years of practical telegraphy. Each of these papers stands admirably on its own feet as a report on the present state of the art and the practices of these corporations which the respective authors represent. The paper by d'Humy and Howe, however, is not a complete report on land-line telegraphy unless augmented by the excellent paper of Duncan, Parker, and Pierce on the customer-to-customer teletypewriter exchange service rendered by American Telephone and Telegraph Company. So, likewise, the paper by Pratt and Roosevelt gives an incomplete picture of present day technique in ocean-cable telegraphy without that section of the d'Humy-Howe paper which outlines Western Union Company's modern ocean-cable practices."
"L. I Komives (The Detroit Edison Company, Detroit, Mich.): This paper, in the opinion of The Detroit Edison Company, is a very valuable and useful addition to the literature on this subject. We believe that the authors have done an excellent job in co-ordinating the data available, and that this paper will be a widely quoted reference. We agree with most of the major conclusions which the authors have drawn and would like to make observations only on some."
"T. H. Haines (Boston Edison Company Boston, Mass.): In an attempt to correlate the severity of cable-sheath troubles with racking conditions in the manholes a survey has been made of two heavily loaded double tie lines which have given considerable trouble in the past. They were installed 17 years ago in a duct line having a consider able variety of manhole conditions."
"R. W. Atkinson (General Cable Corporation, Bayonne, N. J.): In his paper Mr. Shanklin contributes important data. However, some of his conclusions appear to be based not on these or other available data. In part, this discrepancy seems to be due to his placing perhaps an unwarranted weight on the “self-healing property.” He discusses this subject in a very interesting manner but he, himself, gives reason to discount much of its practical importance. For example, Mr. Shanklin states that at the higher pressures “this working-voltage stress is well below the ionization-voltage stress” and cites specifically cables designed for 80 and 40 pounds per square inch to confirm this point. Inasmuch as he also contends that it is ionization which produces this self-healing, it is difficult to see how he can expect any self-healing to occur in service at these pressures. He even indicates that what he says of higher pressures is true, though to a lesser degree, in cables intended to operate at a pressure as low as 12 pounds. He expects, however, that future reductions of insulation thickness will make operating stresses higher with respect to ionization stresses. This apparently may make the self-healing feature of some significance at very low gas pressure, but there is no reason to suppose that any such changes can bring stresses in high-gas-pressure cable to the point where the self-healing feature can be of any practical significance."
"G. H. Garcelon (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): Mr. Erikson's paper brings out a condition that certainly requires some action. The performance record of industrial-control coils has been good in spite of the fact that the prescribed temperature limits are in excess of those recognized for rotating machinery. This record also includes many years when the insulating materials and processes were inferior to those in use today, and, with the advent of the new materials and techniques, it is definitely in order to develop standards permitting higher temperature rises."
"G. H. Garcelon (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): This paper by Mr. Jones clarifying his previous AIEE paper on the same general subject is beneficial in that it definitely should eliminate the misunderstanding held in many places that National Electrical Code fuses were recommended for interrupting short-circuit currents up to 100,000 amperes. Although we believed that no such recommendation was intended, we received many assertions to the effect that they were being recommended for such service. As a result of this controversy numerous tests were made on several makes of National Electrical Code fuse, and we found nothing to indicate that any make of National Electrical Code fuse was good for much more than its Underwriters' Laboratories rating of 10,000 amperes."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 44–141 by G. F. Leland and L. T. Radcr, presented at the AIEE summer technical meeting, St Louis, Mo., June 26–30, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, September section, pages 617–19."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 44–142 by F. H. Holt, presented at the AIEE summer technical meeting, St Louts, Mo., June 26–30, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, September section, pases 623–8."
"G. F. Tate (nonmember; Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The increase in size and range of aircraft and the change in installation and operation requirements have accentuated the need for more accurate and reliable fuel quantity gages which are not affected appreciably by reasonable changes in the attitude of the aircraft under flight conditions."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 44–150 by C. F. Savage and J. M. Whittentone, presented at the AIEE summer technical meet ins, St Louis, Mo., June 26–10, 1944, ma published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, pages 992–8."
"A. W. Nash (El Segundo, Calif.): This paper goes rather extensively into the design and construction of a new type of instrument proposed for temperature indication in aircraft. No information is given as to whether such instruments have been used in aircraft service."
"R. L. Williams (nonmember; Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): This paper describes very well the improvements recently incorporated in aircraft tachometers."
"George Steeb (Buffalo, Niagara, and Eastern Power Corporation, Buffalo, N. Y.): An underfrequency relay with the proper characteristic will provide a new tool to protect power systems. The idea of using these relays as the authors suggest may be repelling to some people, but unquestionably there are some merits which ought to be considered."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 44–93 by R. Koller, presented at the AIEE summer technical meeting, St Louis, Mo., June 26–30, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, August section, pages 573–7."
"E. E. George (Southwest Power Pool, Little Rock, Ark.): Results with carrier-current protection of high-voltage transmission lines have been so successful that the only question today is what type of carrier protection to install, rather than whether to use carrier protection. The greatest possibility in reducing the cost of carrier protection is probably along the line of simplified relay equipment and simplified carrier equipment. This should provide a reduction in both investment and maintenance costs."
"W. K. Dickinson (General Electric Company, West Lynn, Mass.): The subject of high overload-current capacity of current transformers has been one of much interest and has received considerable discussion in recent years — particularly the mechanical overcurrent capacity. In fact, there is still some question regarding the present American Standards Association definition of the term “mechanical overload limit.” It is this angle of Mr. Wentz's paper that I would like to discuss briefly."
"R. C. Dickinson (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): It appears that the authors have done a good job in remedying an unhappy situation by means of high-speed breakers. However, the general value of this development to the industry is somewhat doubtful, since the generation of large amounts of d-c power is now quite generally accomplished with rectifiers instead of rotating machines. The performance of this breaker appears to compare favorably with other devices, which have been in production for more than 12 years. As shown by the authors' bibliography the value of high-speed breakers in limiting high d-c short circuits to less than the ultimate current has been known for a good many years, and devices of this type have been applied in continuous ratings up to 3,000 amperes for more than 20 years. It thus would seem unnecessary to use such high figures as 450,000 amperes from “a 300-volt 3,000-kw generator” and 700,000 amperes on an unstated number of machines presumably at 650 volts. There is no doubt that, although ultimate short-circuit currents in heavy d-c installations can be quite high, actual circuit and short-circuit resistances do not permit the extreme values given by the authors."
"A. W. Hill (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): The authors have presented a very interesting discussion of the various methods of closing circuit breakers and have brought out particularly well the advantages obtained with the use of compressed air where modern high-speed breaker performance is required. It has been found that while pneumatic mechanisms represent somewhat of a change in maintenance problems, the trade in general has accepted this type of apparatus, and in fact showed a preference for it, especially for high-voltage outdoor breakers where unproved system performance can easily be secured from the faster breaker reclosure. It has been found that a pneumatically trip-free mechanism built along the same lines has found so much favor with purchasers of this equipment, that during the past three years more than half of the oil breakers rated 115 kv and above built by the Westinghouse Company have been equipped for pneumatic operation."
"G. Fred Lincks (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): The authors have presented some interesting data on the fusing of distribution circuits, above 5 kv in their paper. However, it appears to be rather a long jump from these data to the conclusions they have drawn."
"G. H. Welch (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): This paper covers a very interesting discussion of the shipboard power-distribution system requirements and the problems involved. During the last several years, considerable development work has been done to improve the reliability of these floating power plants, particularly those on naval vessels. On one class of vessels new circuit-breaker developments were incorporated which provided a complete selectivity system. Two main switchboards were involved, each fed by a single a-c generator, and the boards were interconnected by a bus-tie cable having a circuit breaker at each end. Feeder breakers were connected to each switchboard bus. Tests demonstrated that a fault on a feeder circuit would trip only the feeder breaker and not trip the local generator, tie, or remote-generator breakers. Faults on the tie circuit tripped only the breaker at each end of the tie cable. Bus faults tripped only the local generator breaker and tie circuit. This tripping selectivity was accomplished by mechanical time-delay mechanisms integral to the breakers. Other developments are now in progress which will extend these improvements in the future."
"L. C. Peterman (nonmember; Ford, Bacon, and Davis, Inc., New York, N. Y.): The announcement made in this paper of the new selective tripping mechanism for air circuit breakers indicates that we now have low-voltage direct-tripping devices that will give a performance on overloads comparable to that secured with relays, shunt trip and storage battery, such as customarily are applied only to high-voltage circuits. Further, the inherent nature and simplicity of the direct-acting trip should give high-speed action where that is required, equal to the highest speed now available from the relay-shunt-trip combination, coupled with great reliability due to the smaller number of parts involved in the tripping action."
"G. W. Penney (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): I believe the authors are to be complimented for making such extensive calculations on the radiant transfer of heat between the various surfaces of a room. It is instructive to consider a basic equation for interchange of heat between surfaces as given in equation 1, even if its actual solution is so difficult that in the numerical calculations tabulated values obtained by graphical means must be resorted to. However, I question if these elaborate calculations for interchange by radiation are justified, unless the assumptions used in calculating the interchange by convection can be improved."
"Victor Siegfried (Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Worcester, Mass.): This paper gives a very interesting account of the methods for obtaining more effective heating other than direct space heating by electricity. Of especial interest to me are the fuel-conservation implications which may be inferred from it."
"R. R. Herrmann (Northern States Power Company, Minneapolis, Minn.): I for one am particularly glad to see the investigation of house-heating equipment which is now going on. Some of the crudest of applications of engineering, if we can call it such, have in the past been made on house-heating furnaces. Engineers have improved industrial power plants very materially but little has been done in a similar manner with household furnaces."
"E. A. Childerhose (Jackson and Moreland, Boston, Mass.): We have been investigating overvoltages at a plant using a large number of electric arc furnaces varying in size from 1,000 kva to 10,000 kva. The number and magnitude of surges closely parallels the arc-furnace transient curve shown in Figure 7 of the paper except that the maximum voltage does not exceed seven times normal."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 44–166 by N. R. Stansel, presented at the AIEE summer technical meeting, St. Louis, Mo., June 26–30, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, October section, pages 755–9."
"F. J. Given and A. J. Christopher (Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., New York, N. Y.): This paper is gratifying evidence of the growing interest in the specialized problem of design of capacitors for operation on d-c potentials. There has been a scarcity of information on methods of predicting operating life under stated conditions of voltage and temperature. The present paper serves a useful purpose in adding design data."
"E. A. Harty (General Electric Company, West Lynn, Mass.): The author's review of the field of application of copper-oxide rectifiers to electrochemical work seems to parallel our own experience."
"B. M. Jones and C. N. Clark (Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): In past years the applications of shunt capacitors for improvement of voltage on distribution circuits have been limited generally to those locations where relatively small increases in voltage were required. In cases where a large increase in voltage was needed, it was necessary to utilize other methods such as step regulators, extending additional phase wires, or the use of larger conductors."
"V. E. Hill (Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.): It is true that static capacitors are being used increasingly by both utilities and industrial and commercial establishments for improvement of voltage, gaining of additional equipment or circuit capacities, and reduction of bills. Also, it probably would be desirable to have automatic control on many of these applications, particularly those made by the utilities. However, there are various factors involved as brought out in the following discussion."
"R. E. Pierce (Ebasco Services Inc., New York, N. Y.): The author is to be complimented for bringing before the Institute for discussion certain problems in connection with the impulse testing of transformers, as well as for development of a new supplementary testing technique having promise of more positive fault detection."
"V. M. Montsinger (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): The paper, “The Design and Operating Characteristics of Modern Dry-Type Air-Cooled Transformers,” is interesting and timely, and should be of value to the industry in that it gives some service tests and operating experience on the use of a high-temperature insulation in dry-type transformers having temperatures above 130 degrees centigrade."
"Jerome J. Taylor (The Detroit Edison Company, Detroit, Mich.): Mr. Hobart's ideas regarding compressed-gas insulation for high-voltage cables and transformers have wide scope, are stated aggressively and interestingly, and raise dozens of stimulating questions."
"F. Von Voigtlander (Faraday Electric Corporation, Adrian, Mich.): The author's paper is of great interest to all concerned with urban public transportation. The popular acceptance of the trolley coach is a matter of record throughout the country, brought about largely by the swift, silent, odorless, and economical performance of these vehicles. Operators are trained easily if they have had previous experience in handling steerable vehicles, and equipment availability of from 95 to 98 per cent is quite ordinary."
"J. H. Cox (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): I am most pleased that Mr. Wino-grad's paper points out the basic superiority of the single-anode tube over multianode construction, even in the large-size units. This makes unanimous agreement on that point among the builders of mercury-arc rectifiers in America. I have thought for a long time that the early rectifier engineers were misled by the fact that most electric apparatus became more attractive as the size of units was increased and continued to struggle for more anodes in larger units even though it was recognized that an increase in size of unit increased losses. Of course, a balance must be struck between efficiency and the complication of multiplicity of parts. However, Mr. Wino-grad has demonstrated that, even with the continuous-excitation principle, by better engineering of details and of auxiliary apparatus the complication can be minimized to a point where the sacrifice demanded by single-anode construction is well justified by the efficiency gain and the simplification of the main arc carrying features."
"Discussion of paper 44–91 by W. A. Petrasclc, presented at the AIEE summer technical meeting St Louis, Mo., June 26–30, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, August section, pases 593–8."
"J. T. Gove (Los Angeles, Calif.): Fluorescent lamps now are used for instrument lighting only on Army aircraft and on Naval aircraft of older design and not on all military aircraft as implied in this paper. On Naval aircraft of new design, red indirect lighting is used for instrument panels, and red lighting also is used for general cockpit illumination and for chart-board illumination. The reason given for the changes to red lighting is that it is a means for providing better dark adaptation of pilots' eyes. Whether red lighting or fluoroescent lighting best accomplishes this purpose is apparently a controversial issue."
"J. A. Townsend (engineering division, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The electric torque instrument of whatever type appears to be at a disadvantage in its present state of development, because of inherent installation, calibration, and maintenance difficulties, at least for use on production airplanes. While the hydraulic torque instrument is also susceptible to improvements, particularly in low-temperature operation and in overcoming torsional vibration with resulting erratic indications of the pointer, continued development would appear to have more promise of success than with an electric type."
"C. Concordia (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): This paper presents data of considerable interest not only in connection with performance during jogging and plugging, as mentioned by the authors, but also for other applications. For example, electric-power-system load characteristics during transient voltage disturbances are of importance in determining system behavior. Since induction motors may form an appreciable part of the system load, it becomes of interest to know the response of such motors to sudden changes in terminal voltage as given, for example, in Figures 4 to 7 of the paper. Another case mentioned briefly in the paper is that of two motors on the same shaft. In this case it may be possible in transferring from the larger to the smaller motor to close the line switch on the smaller motor, when it is running considerably above its synchronous speed. The case of pole changing in a single motor is similar, but the two-motor case is emphasized here because the drive shaft for the small motor may be smaller than that for the large motor, and thus the shaft torques may be more significant."
"Quentin Graham (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.): It may be noted that there is one source of electromagnetic force that Professor Graybeal has not emphasized. If the center of the rotor travels in a small circle around the center of the stator, such as would occur with a bent shaft, there is a point of minimum air gap which travels at rotor speed. As this coincides with the maximum magnetic field at twice slip frequency, the characteristic beat wave is accounted for without the necessity of a second harmonic in the mechanical force wave. The test shown in Figure 3 of the paper is, of course, evidence that a second harmonic mechanical force did occur in the tested motor, which would be accounted for by keyways or other dissymmetries. However, it is my belief that in many cases a bent shaft alone is sufficient cause. This does not mean, necessarily, a permanent distortion of the shaft, but rather a bending within the elastic limit as a result of the centrifugal force of a slightly unbalanced weight accentuated by the increased magnetic pull on the side having the minimum air gap. I should like to ask the author whether he has experience that may confirm or disprove this point of view."
"J. E. Mulheim (nonmember; Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, Lima, Ohio.): Calculated frequency-amplitude curves such as that shown in Figure 10 of Mr. Miner's paper serve several useful purposes. Qualitatively, they indicate the critical frequencies of the generator structure at which any appreciable excitation will produce destructive amplitudes of the various structural components. Quantitatively, in regions other than those where the structure is resonant, they can be expected to give reasonable estimates of the forces acting on the different members when used in conjunction with engine-vibration curves.1 Their principal disadvantage is that they are not applicable in the three regions of resonance because the effects of damping are not considered. The calculations required to incorporate the effects of damping are very arduous. However, it is possible to determine the more or less exact shape of such curvesby an electrical-analogy method.2"
"Ernest B. Evans (nonmember; Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, Burbank, Calif.): In addition to the applications for voltage regulators discussed by Mr. Neild, one other may be of interest."
"W. A. Barden (major, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The alternator described by the authors is representative of current design trends as regards electric generating equipment for aircraft. While the machine has the lowest weight per unit output, approximately 2.8 pounds per kilowatt, of any generators or alternators so far developed for use in aircraft, it does not represent the ultimate attainable."
"G. G. Setterlund (nonmember) and R. R. Miille (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, Lima, Ohio): Mr. Veinott is to be congratulated for developing a simple means of handling this vital subject. There is a great need for more specific information on blast tubes for cooling aircraft generators. This need was first emphasized when the early development of high-altitude brushes was delayed because such information was not available."
"Ernest B. Evans (nonmember; Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, Burbank, Calif.): Mr. Gagnier has ably treated the factors involved in the design of aircraft electric actuators. Much might be gained by the interchange of ideas and information regarding design details. Gear train arrangements which allow maximum manufacturing tolerances, and production methods by which semiskilled personnel may hold those tolerances are especially to be sought. The same may be said of clutch-brake design. In one actuator of recent design it was found possible to improve the magnetic circuit and reduce the accumulation of tolerances, and yet simplify production and testing of the actuators by combining a steel coil housing, a brake face, and a guide sleeve into one part. The coefficient of friction between the clutch faces was increased considerably by radial rather than annular grinding of the driving face."
"W. A. Barden (major, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): This paper presents a very clear-cut picture of the requirements which have to be met, not only by the airplane designer, but by the accessory designer as well. It is the responsibility of the accessory designer to meet these requirements to the greatest degree. Likewise, it is the responsibility of the airplane designer to select accessory equipment which meets these requirements to the greatest degree."
"S. W. Zimmerman (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): In introducing a capacitor for specific application to high-frequency problems, the authors undoubtedly are helping to focus attention on the limitations of standard designs of components when applied to high-frequency problems. Problems of high-frequency by-pass encountered in many places, particularly in radio-noise suppression, require lower impedance devices than offered by standard ratings and constructions."
"W. A. Barden (major, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): This paper should be of considerable value to the aircraft electrical engineers and radio engineers in determining the effects of power supply on the weight of radio equipment. The advantages and disadvantages of both a-c and d-c power have been listed very carefully and are of quite general interest."
"S. W. Zimmerman (General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Mass.): The authors have done a splendid analytical job in the problem of radio-noise treatment in aircraft. This subject brings into play all the imagination and resourcefulness of the engineer."
"Alexander C. Wall (nonmember; P. R. Mallory and Company, Inc., Indianapolis, Ind.): It is very encouraging to see a paper on the subject of ignition-system design. There appears to have been a great lack of technical publication on the vital and complicated subject of magneto design, especially for the severe duty application to aircraft. It is a rather well-established fact that the primary factor in causing engine failure and expense in the servicing of airplanes in general is due by a very wide margin to the ignition system. It certainly seems that this subject, therefore, should receive considerable attention from a technical-design-improvement standpoint."
"Otto A. Knopp (Pacific Gas and Electric Company, San Francisco, Calif.): The authors of this paper have shown that they possess a clear understanding of the physical phenomena involved in the operation of a bushing-type current transformer, and they have developed quite an ingenious method for determining in the field the ratio and phase-angle errors of such transformers."
"R. A. Larner (Texas Electric Service Company, Fort Worth, Texas): It is significant to note that very good reclosing performance at 230 kv has been obtained using ordinary expulsion contacts similar to those tested previously on lower voltages. After several years' experience, the writer was convinced that this contact was good, but it had not been evident that the performance would be quite so good at higher voltages as data presented by Mr. Schwager show quite conclusively."
"L. L. Draper (Department of Water and Power, Los Angeles, Calif.): The relay element described in this paper is a distinct forward step in the protection of long transmission lines, particularly with respect to the convenient adjustments that have been provided."
"Cyril G. Veinott (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, Lima, Ohio): Quill and Rader have presented some valuable experimental information which should be of appreciable assistance not only to builders of switches but also to users of them. While there is no apparent reason to doubt the accuracy of their data on arc interruption and no apparent reason to challenge their general qualitative conclusions, there is reason to discuss their method of reproducing altitude conditions. They state that they have reproduced the standard National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics pressure at altitude but not the temperature. Arc-interruption phenomena are a function of density of the air, not pressure alone; hence, the standard NACA air density at altitude should have been reproduced instead of merely pressure. Since temperature is not of itself important, the authors were justified in not taking the additional trouble to reproduce the standard NACA temperatures, but their results should have been plotted as a function of density altitude, not pressure altitude."
"Joseph H. Jay (nonmember; Air Technical Service Command, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The use of any suitable material that meets the performance requirements of the applicable low-voltage aircraft-cable specification is the driving factor for the cable manufacturers. R. E. Hedges brings forth this point in his summary and also covers the majority of the requirements as outlined in specification AN-J-C-48. However, it should be stressed that the use of any suitable material has been an incentive to the cable manufacturers and has given them a wide field to draw from to meet aircraft requirements."
"Jerome H. Ehrich (nonmember; lieutenant, Air Technical Service Command, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): This paper presents an interesting survey of electric connections in common use in aircraft. In regard to stripping of wire, a table is included, showing allowable broken strands per wire and a maximum allowable percentage of scraped, swaged or nicked strands. The insulation-stripping operation should be accomplished without damaging or breaking any of the wire strands. Setting up of standards for permissible damage to wire will result in careless wire stripping. An employee who knows that a certain number of strands may be severed or damaged in the stripping operation may make no special effort to strip a wire without damage to the wire strands."
"W. Stanwix-Hay (General Electric Company, Bridgeport, Conn.): There are a number of items in this paper that are of interest to the electrical engineer engaged in the manufacture of power cables for airplanes, particularly at this time when we are at war. Because of this war, we are faced with the very practical problem of producing millions of feet per week of cable that is urgently needed by the Armed Forces and aircraft manufacturers. Because of this urgent demand, we must confine ourselves to practical insulation that can be applied at high speed, in large quantities, and with a minimum of defects in the manufacturing cycle and in the completed cable."
"L. A. Zahorsky (General Electric Company, Fort Wayne, Ind.): The paper, “Electric gun turrets for aircraft,” is a well-organized and accurate presentation of the operation of this type of equipment."
"W. A. Barden (major, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The paper under discussion very effectively presents most of the aspects of the application of induction motors to aircraft. However, in addition to the operating conditions and performance characteristics involved, there is the very important consideration of the exact manner in which the motor and the driven equipment are combined."
"H. J. Braun (Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, Lima, Ohio): For aircraft use, brakes and brake and clutch mechanisms must be light in weight, trouble-free, and positive in action. Any mechanism that does not meet these requirements is doomed to eventual failure."
"E. W. Knapp (The Shawinigan Water and Power Company, Montreal, Quebec, Canada): There are a number of points pertaining to this excellent paper which I believe could be discussed to advantage. Possibly a record of distances between the main 230-kv stations would prove of value to those readers not familiar with the area under consideration."
"D. M. Farnham (Quebec Hydro Electric Commission, Montreal, Quebec, Canada): The author is to be complimented on his paper, especially for the way he has dealt with many of the details not previously covered in the various papers we have had on high-voltage cable work."
"Donald L. Moran (nonmember; lieutenant, Air Technical Service Command, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): Wells and Balsbaugh present the background of the need for and a description of tests conducted on a crimp-type solderless terminal."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 44–228 by Paul Lebenbaum, Jr., presented at the AIEE Los Angeles technical meeting, Los Angeles, Calif., August 29–September 1, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, December section, pages 955–60."
"R. A. Cole (nonmember) and Wayne D. Cannon (Wright Aeronautical Corporation, Paterson, N. J.) : In presenting the vibration problem to designers of electric equipment for aircraft, Mr. Miller has made a needed contribution."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 44–227 by John Tyler, presented at the AIEE Los Angeles technical meeting, Los Angeles, Calif., August 29–September 1, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, pages 1334–49."
"E. R. Summers (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): This paper represents a careful attempt to learn more about carbon brushes. Electric-apparatus manufacturers welcome such work, because more fundamental information is needed."
"Harvey J. Finison (Equipment Laboratory, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): One of the greatest problems in brush wear testing has been the selection of test conditions representative of service conditions. Selection of test conditions considerably more severe than actual operating conditions may result in elimination of brushes capable of giving excellent service performance, in fact, superior to those which may be selected on the basis of more severe tests."
"W. C. Kalb (National Carbon Company, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio): Mention is made in the paper by E. R. Summers and J. F. Settle of the rapid brush wear experienced on synchronous-converter rings under conditions of very low humidity. This effect was known to most brush manufacturers. Therefore, when extremely short brush life first was encountered in high-altitude flight, it was but natural to assume that this was due, at least in part, to the low humidity known to prevail at high elevation. Although the view was held in some quarters that other factors were the major cause of high-altitude brush failure, the investigations made by Doctor Ramadanoff and Doctor Glass, as demonstrated at this meeting, provide convincing evidence that low humidity and meager oxygen supply are the major factors contributing to rapid brush wear."
"Discussion of paper 44–206 by Jack Vitol presented at the AIEE Los Angeles technical meeting, Los Angeles, Calif., August 29–September 1, 1944, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1944, November section, pages 796–8."
"F. C. Somers (nonmember; Scotch Plains, N. J.): Mr. Tuck's paper, in stressing the importance of co-ordinating the brightness of the control-room and test-cell lighting, underlines the fundamental cause of many of the existing unsatisfactory lighting installations. Many test cells, having good lighting in the control room and test cell considered separately, have failed under conditions requiring the engine to be viewed through multipaned glass observation windows."
"C. E. Wood (nonmember; captain, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The method in the paper is an excellent approach to the problem and is sound in its reasoning. However, the ultimate results obtained in any such calculation cannot be more accurate than the assumptions upon which it is based, and in the case of military aircraft there cannot be an accurate basis for these assumptions."
"S. R. Bergman (deceased; formerly with General Electric Company, Lynn, Mass.): This article is of particular interest to the writer who designed and built the generators for the Mars flying boat. It is a valuable contribution as it describes the actual performance of a 120-volt d-c system for airplanes."
"L. G. Levoy, Jr. (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The authors have presented an interesting paper which should be of considerable use in calculating the performance of three-phase 400-cycle a-c power systems in aircraft."
"W. A. Barden (major, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The authors have presented an excellent case on behalf of 115-volt d-c electric systems for aircraft. It is the purpose of this discussion to point out a few considerations which, it is believed, are of importance in military aircraft, if not in commercial aircraft."
"J. Elmer Housley (Aluminum Company of America, Alcoa, Tenn.): The author's use of power terms in his discussion of the radio-frequency circuits makes the article valuable to electrical engineers."
"W. A. Barden (major, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): This paper has given a very clear-cut understandable picture of the components of automatic pilots and the functions of each. It points out the means by which the deviation of an aircraft from its selected course is recognized and gives in detail the chain of events by which that condition is corrected."
"B. Levine (nonmember; Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): This paper presents an excellent description of rate-type control as applied to automatic control of aircraft. The A-5 automatic pilot, about which the discussion presented in this paper was centered, was the first electric automatic pilot in this country utilizing this principle of control. Rate control has been attained in the past to a certain extent mechanically, or pneumatically; however, satisfactory operation is difficult to achieve due to the limitations and complexity of this type of rate follow-up system. This system is being utilized in this country in the type A-4 automatic pilot. A three-axis electric automatic pilot has been developed and is in use in Germany utilizing the rate principle of control. In this case, however, rate control is achieved through the use of three-rate gyroscopes whose signals are blended into the basic displacement signal electrically."
"Vincent H. Quayle (nonmember; lieutenant, United States Army Air Corps, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): All phases of science have made great advances as a result of the war, and among them is the comparatively new science of electronics. Electronics as applied to aircraft, excluding radio communication, includes turbo-regulator control and the automatic pilot."
"W. A. Barden (major, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): This paper provides an interesting account of the way in which instrumentation is accomplished electrically in modern aircraft. Although instruments operating on electrical principles have been developed to meet every need that exists, there still is a considerable amount of work which could be done in the way of improvements and refinements."
"J. E. Rowland (nonmember; Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The design, characteristics, and performance of 400-cycle instruments have been well covered by the authors in their very interesting paper. There is little that can be added to their presentation."
"Arthur Wahl (lieutenant, United States Army Air Corps, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The primary purpose of the Gyrosyn compass described in this paper is to obtain a stable and accurate indication of azimuth under a wide range of flying conditions and to have this indication as free as possible from the deviations and fluctuations inherent in the direct-reading magnetic card-type of compass. The method of arriving at such an indication by using the earth inductor (called flux valve in this paper) to sense direction with respect to the earth's magnetic field at present can be divided into two classes: Either the earth inductor is allowed to swing pendulously and is made to slave a horizontal axis gyroscope used as the indicator; or the earth inductor itself is stabilized in the horizontal plane by a vertical axis gyroscope, and its signal of direction is amplified through a servo system to give the desired indication. The first of these two, which is employed in the Gyrosyn compass, has been dealt with ably in this paper. The second, which is employed in the Gyro Flux Gate compass built by Eclipse-Pioneer division of Bendix Aviation Corporation, will be described briefly in principle of operation with a short comparison of the two systems."
"W. A. Barden (major, United States Army, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio): The paper which is the subject of this discussion was read with considerable interest and has resulted in a new appreciation of some of the problems faced by the British in using aircraft of their own and of American design."
"L. G. Levoy, Jr. (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.): The authors have presented an interesting glimpse of the future of aircraft electric systems. In setting the goal for electric systems in aircraft, it is not desirable to try to perform every function electrically, nor should we attempt to make the maximum possible use of electricity on aircraft. Rather, the goal should be to utilize electricity wherever it can perform the required function in a superior manner, compared with alternative means of accomplishing the same result, considering the airplane as a whole. The electrical industry must co-operate with all other industries in producing the best combinations of devices, as well as making electrical devices as good as possible."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This pamphlet contains complete multientry indexes covering the entire text content of AIEE regular technical publications, as follows: 1. Electrical Engineering, monthly, sent to all members. Contains two parts: I. General articles, news, and biographical items. I I . Transactions section, containing technical-program papers presented at national and District technical meetings."
"One of the factors that should be considered in determining how wide a transmission band is required for high fidelity broadcasting is the ability of people to perceive the effects of restricting the band to various limits, when listening to typical radio programs. Tests are described in which this was directly measured. The tests were concerned only with the physical ability to hear the differences in band width and disregarded the question of the enjoyment or aesthetic appreciation of wider bands. It is concluded that changes in band width are detectable about twice as readily with music as with speech; that one must go from 8 to 15 kc. to obtain a change as readily detected as a change from 5 to 8 kc.; and that both these changes, for speech, are just sufficient to have an even chance of being detected by listeners having experience in such tests."
"This paper is one of a series of papers dealing with piezoelectric circuit elements and their manufacture.1 Certain parts of the paper are not new or original, but have been added for the sake of completeness and for the convenience of the reader."
"WITH the recent extended use of Quartz crystals in oscillators and electrical networks has come a need for a comprehensive view of the various types of crystal cuts. In addition there has been a need for illustration of some of the methods employed in choosing the proper cut for a given requirement, the manner in which quartz crystals vibrate and the basic principles governing the choice of a design to use certain cuts most advantageously. In particular one of the greatest problems associated with the recent large scale production of crystals for oscillator purposes has been that of obtaining crystals the activity and frequency of which would not vary to any large degree over a wide range in temperature."
"When the input to a rectifier contains both signal and noise components, the resultant output is a complicated non-linear function of signal and noise. Given the spectra of the signal and noise input waves, the law of rectification, and the transmission characteristics of the input and output circuits of the rectifier, it should, in general, be possible to describe the spectrum of the resultant output wave. Before discussing the solution of the general problem, we shall derive some results of a simpler nature, which do not require a consideration of the distribution of the signal and noise energies as functions of frequency."
"The theory underlying the measurement of dielectric constants and power Iactors, by means of resonant lengths of coaxial transmission line, is developed, apparatus used for such measurements is illustrated and the measurement routine described. A table of typical results is appended together withan “X tan X” table for aid in the calculations."
"A Sampling Inspection Plan for Continuous Production.1 H. F. Dodge. This paper presents a plan of sampling inspection for a product consisting of individual units (parts, sub-assemblies, finished articles, etc.) manufactured in quantity by an essentially continuous process."
"W. R. Bennett, B.S., Oregon State College, 1925; A.M., Columbia University, 1928. Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. Mr. Bennett has been engaged in the study of the electrical transmission problems of communication."
"A method of analyzing telephone receiver characteristics by indicial response is discussed and illustrated by oscillograms. The indicial response of a telephone receiver is the instantaneous response of the receiver to a suddenly applied electromotive force. This type of response is of particular fundamental interest because it furnishes a key to the solution of transient problems such as are involved in the response to speech waves."
"The comparatively recent advent of crystal controlled oscillators and of wave filters employing piezoelectric elements has resulted in an extensive study of the ways in which plates made of elastic materials such as quartz or rochelle salt can vibrate. Of special interest have been the resonant frequencies associated with these modes of motion. As will be indicated in subsequent paragraphs, the general solution to the problem of greatest interest is quite complex, and has not been forthcoming, (i.e., as applied to rectangular plates completely unrestrained at all boundary surfaces). For this reason numerous approximate solutions have been developed which yield useful information in spite of their limitations. Several of these solutions will be discussed in the following sections. The three general types of modes (i.e., the extensional, shear, and flexural) will be analyzed in some detail. Also, as a preliminary step the formulation of the general problem along classical lines will be developed."
"IT IS the object of this chapter to show some of the fundamental considerations involved that govern the design of mountings or holders of quartz crystals. This discussion is restricted to the three common types, namely, rod or clamp type, wire type and airgap type. The development of these three types of mountings for applications in telephone transmission and radio systems has led to many and varied forms. Commercial designs of units for telephone uses employing these principles are described in detail in a later chapter."
"A new type of vacuum tube is described in which a flat radial beam of electrons in a cylindrical structure may be made to rotate about the axis. Features of the tube are its absence of an internal focusing structure and resultant simplicity of design, its small size, its low voltages, and its high beam currents. The focusing of the beams and their directional control are accomplished by the magnetic fields in small polyphase motor stators. A time division multiplex signaling system for 30 channels using these tubes is briefly described."
"A Modification of Hallén's Solution of the Antenna Problem.1 M. C. Gray. An alternative formula for the input impedance of a cylindrical antenna is derived from Hallén's integral equation. It is shown that the introduction of a variable parameter Z(z) in place of Hallén's Ω = log (4l2/a2) modifies the numerical results considerably, and leads to much better agreement with experimental evidence."
"H. J. McSkimin, B.S. in Electrical Engineering, University of Illinois, 1937; M.S. in Physics, New York University, 1940. Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1937–. Engaged primarily in a study of electrical and electromechanical properties of piezoelectric crystals."
"Recent practical and theoretical investigations of the effect of signal distortion on the margins of operation of start-stop telegraph receivers have led to the development of improved methods of testing and adjusting receivers, have enabled criteria of distortion tolerance to be set up for subscribers' and monitoring receivers and regenerative repeaters, and have made possible the application of more convenient and accurate standards of telegraph transmission. This paper describes the causes of distortion occurring both externally and internally to the receiver and the effects of such distortion on the operating margins. Methods of determining the internal distortion of a receiver are described and some of the more important considerations involved in establishing distortion tolerance criteria are discussed."
"THIS paper is one of a series on piezoelectric quartz plates and deals primarily with the methods employed in mounting crystal plates operating up to approximately one megacycle for practical utilization in communication equipment. The theoretical aspects of mounting crystals have been covered in Chapter VII. The discussion is confined to plates1 having definite nodal lines or points, such as +5° and −18° 25′ X cuts, GT, CT, DT, MT and NT cuts. The mounting of high-frequency crystal plates such as AT and BT cuts, which vibrate in thickness shear modes, is not included. It should also be noted that the subject matter is treated descriptively and that no attempt is made to go into the more intricate details of design or to give performance characteristics. These matters will be dealt with fully in a later paper. The designs and methods outlined are up to date for each type of unit, the results of many years of development on the part of Bell System engineers to evolve practical designs for commercial manufacture and use. Expanding on the contributions of the early investigators mentioned by W. P. Mason in Chapter I,1 these engineers had, in the ten years prior to 1939, worked out practical designs and developed suitable tools and processes for wide commercialization in telephone applications. In the last five years, under the impetus of war, further improvements have been made in the design and manufacture of crystal units, particularly those for use by the Armed Forces."
"THIS chapter emphasizes primarily the need for close control in the manufacture of crystal units for use in filters. The first telephone use of crystal units in the commercial manufacture of filters was made by the Western Electric Company in about 1936. To make such commercial manufacture practical, it was necessary to establish accurate design information and allowable manufacturing tolerances. The quantitative data collected for this purpose provided the chief source of material for this chapter. While the data is quite extensive, it will be observed that there are still some factors which must be treated qualitatively."
"THIS paper deals with the mathematical analysis of noise obtained by passing random noise through physical devices. The random noise considered is that which arises from shot effect in vacuum tubes or from thermal agitation of electrons in resistors. Our main interest is in the statistical properties of such noise and we leave to one side many physical results of which Nyquist's law may be given as an example.1"
"Crossbar Toll Switching System.1 L. G. Abraham, A. J. Busch, and F. F. Shipley. A new crossbar toll switching system was placed in service in Philadelphia in August 1943. Important improvements offered by this system include: 1. Transmission objectives are met more readily and substantial economies are obtained in outside plant and in repeater equipment. 2. Extended use of toll dialing results in operating economies and improved service to subscribers. Calls over circuits still on a ringdown basis are also handled more expeditiously and with operating economies. 3. Flexibility due to the use of sender and markers to control establishing connections will be useful in meeting future toll switching requirements."
"A. R. D'HEEDENE, B.S. in Mechanical Engineering, New York University, 1924; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1924–. Mr. D'heedene has been engaged in the development of wave filters, particularly filters using quartz crystal units or operating at very high frequencies."
"SOME few months ago, in anticipation of the retirement of Dr. F. B. Jewett, an informal committee undertook to discover such action as the Journal might appropriately take to commemorate the event. The various possibilities finally narrowed down to one, a historical review appearing for various reasons to be the most suitable."
"THIS correlated review is an attempt to present some of the more common aspects of the powder metallurgy process in order to acquaint telephone engineers with an increasingly important production method, and to provide an outline of topic references that could otherwise be obtained only from many different sources."
"Automatic Ticketing of Telephone Calls.1 O. A. Friend. In January a new arrangement of dial central office equipment was placed in service at Culver City, California, designed to enable subscribers to dial for themselves their short-haul toll calls to other exchanges within the Los Angeles metropolitan area. These calls were formerly placed with an operator, who completed and timed the call and wrote a ticket used for billing. The new equipment controls the automatic completion of the dialed call, identifies the calling line, and prints a ticket showing the calling and called numbers and other information needed for billing. The arrangement applies to the step-by-step switching system and employs senders capable of routing these calls efficiently through a metropolitan trunking network. It affords operating economy together with faster and more convenient service."
"Earle E. Schumacher, B.S., University of Michigan; Research Assistant in Chemistry, 1916–18. Engineering Department, Western Electric Company, 1918–25; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1925–. As Research Metallurgist, Mr. Schumacher is in charge of a group concerned with research and development studies on metals and alloys."
"This paper describes the complete 35-mm film and 33 1/3 or 78 rpm disk recording and rerecording equipment installed for the U. S. Navy at the Photographic Science Laboratory, Anacostia, D. C. Modern design excellent performance, and ease of operation are features of the installation."
"This paper is the narration to a sound slide film introducing the Navy's new laboratory at Anacostia, D. C. (construction completed December, 1943). It gives a brief history of military photography leading to the Navy's need for its own laboratory for secret and confidential projects, discusses military organization, gives a tour of the laboratory, presenting especially the work of divisions concerned with motion picture production, still photography, aerial photography, graphic arts and photolithography, and sketches the services which the laboratory performs for all ships and stations."
"This paper presents a series of curves showing the tolerance for commercial processing of 16-mm variable-area sound tracks. Values of distortion encountered in commercial practice are indicated."
"The growth of 16-mm release print volume has been so rapid as a result of the war that there is serious danger of the destruction of priceless originals if the present haphazard methods of supervision of print manufacture are continued. The situation has already become acute in 16-mm Kodachrome. — The solution appears to rest in anticipating print needs and in purposefully preserving originals by dead storage under suitable refrigeration. To accomplish preservation, it is necessary that all release prints be made from intermediate copies made specifically for the purpose. In this manner, it is possible to keep the originals in storage for a relatively long time, removing them periodically for the sole purpose of making intermediate copies, such as dupes, but in no case using them for making release prints. A cycle of 51 weeks of storage and one week of use is suggested as a starting point. — With the recommended procedure and with present-day materials under good control in duplicating, upward of 2500 release prints can be made from a single original. This large number is by no means the maximum, as the number of copies that can be produced in each step can be materially increased with care in handling. The method is applicable to the making of black-and-white prints from Kodachrome and similar originals, as well as to color prints. In the broader aspect it may be applied to the preservation of educational films however made."
"Calcium salts may be introduced into photographic processing solutions from (a) the water supply, (b) the emulsion, or both, and these salts combine with some of the developer constituents to form insoluble compounds which may appear as (1) a sludge suspended in the developer or accumulated on the filters, (2) a scum on the film, or (3) a scale on rollers, sprockets, racks, and the walls of tanks. The control of the water supply will reduce the quantity of these precipitates and the scum may be removed by suitable acid rinse or acid fixing baths, but calcium-sequestering agents are often used for more complete control. When selecting these agents, their calcium-sequestering power, stability, photographic effect, and their effect when carried over into the fixing bath must be considered, and on the basis of these requirements, sodium tetraphosphate was found the most suitable.† — Appropriate quantities of sodium tetraphosphate added to the developer were found to (1) prevent sludge formation in mixing, storing, or use of the developer, (2) prevent the formation of scum on the film when in the developer, and (3) greatly diminish the rate at which incrustations accumulate on the tank walls, sprockets, and mechanical parts. — If developers are stored at high temperatures, the polyphosphates present tend to hydrolyze to the simple phosphates which, when carried over into the fixing bath, may precipitate as aluminum phosphate. This hydrolysis does not occur on storage of the dry solids and only very slowly below 85 F when in solution. Solutions stored at high temperatures or for prolonged periods may be protected by the addition of sodium citrate which extends the life of the tetraphosphate solution and prevents precipitation in the fixing bath if hydrolysis has occurred."
"The sound engineer is waging a never-ending fight against extraneous noises entering a sound channel. One of the greatest sources of noise is the complex field created by the many power transformers and filter reactors in the system. Of the methods of elimination, that which is aimed at the reduction of the fields at their source is perhaps the most effective. There are several ways of reducing, and in some instances virtually eliminating, the stray fields radiating from these coils."
"The Duplex Loudspeaker is a combined two-way loudspeaker mounted in an integral unit so that the high-frequency energy is radiated from a small multicellular horn mounted on the face of the low-frequency diaphragm. — Separate permanent magnets of improved magnetic material are now used for the fields of each voice coil. — The crossover has been selected at 1200 cycles so that the high-frequency horn can be placed in the center of the low-frequency diaphragm. — A signal input up to 25 w can safely be applied to the speaker. The intermodulation products are very low as a result of the two-way principle. The configuration of the high-frequency horn produces an angle of radiation which is 60 degrees in the horizontal plane and 40 degrees in the vertical plane. Due to the type of construction a high degree of uniformity between units can be maintained in manufacture. — The unit is capable of efficient radiation beyond 15,000 cycles."
"Because of the increasing interest in the enlargement of “blow-up” of 16-mm to 35-mm, this paper offers some timely “do's and ”don't‘s“ taken from practical experience."
"People who are using direct 16-mm productions for the first time, or those thinking of using them, will naturally have a lot of questions to ask about the method. They will want to know the advantages of the system, what can be done in the way of photography and sound, and what production and laboratory facilities are available. They will also want to know what may be expected of the final product in this field. The following paper will consider these questions and state what may be expected of direct 16-mm as it is known today."
"This paper describes a two-position console developed to handle mltitrack rerecording requirements using sliding volume controls and preset equalization with which the mixer has at his command combinations of equalizers that may be connected into the circuit upon cue as required. — Also a variable-type attenuation equalizer circuit, arranged to give improved equalization characteristics as the control dial is varied from step to step, is discussed."
"The question of a sound record on color film seemed to have arrived at a final solution, because only a few of the proposed color film processes satisfied the constantly increasing requirements, and therefore the possibilities for sound recording became less numerous. Silver sound tracks were recommended for the more successful color film processes, as for example, in the case of Agfacolor film, where by means of a special protecting method, a black-and-white instead of a colored track was obtained, or in the Technicolor process, where black-and-white stock already containing the sound record served as a base on which color transfers were made. However, this technical development was interrupted, when, for reasons of simplicity and perhaps of cost, it was tried in the Agfacolor process to produce a colored sound track exactly in the same manner as the picture. The following discussions deal with the phenomena occurring in the reproduction of such colored sound tracks. In conclusion and for the evaluation of the results new types of photoelectric cells will also be discussed."
"A general discussion is given of the physical properties of both nitrate and safety motion picture film and how these properties are influenced by heat, moisture and other factors. Some of the improvements made in safety base in recent years are described together with some of its present weaknesses. — The manufacture of film base is mentioned briefly and the influence of structure on physical properties is pointed out. The effects of moisture on film are discussed including the relation between equilibrium moisture content and relative humidity, the rate of swell in water, the rate of drying, and the rate of conditioning. The physical changes which occur in the processing and drying of film by continuous machine are described. — The mechanical properties of film, such as tensile strength, elongation, modulus of elasticity, cold flow, folding endurance, and tearing resistance, are discussed and comparisons made between various films. The effect of relative humidity and temperature on the brittleness of film is described, with particular reference to low relative humidities and subzero temperatures. Tackiness is mentioned briefly. — Temporary and permanent film shrinkage of various types is explained, and the factors which affect shrinkage throughout the life of the film are discussed. The shrinkage characteristics of a number of Eastman motion picture films are tabulated. The cause of curl is explained, as well as the changes in curl, which occur during processing and storage. Recommendations are made throughout on the handling and storage of film to obtain the best performance."
"Many of the objects that concern us are of use only when they are in motion. While we can watch mechanisms that move slowly to determine whether or not their actions confirm performance predictions, the unaided eye is useless to observe high-speed mechanisms. — To find out what is going on some method of visual aid must be employed. While this paper does not cover the entire field of activity in high-speed photography, the more important methods are classified, equipment is described, and various applications are discussed."
"In getting any device ready for a test it is necessary to consider what is to be found out about it, the complete equipment to be used in the test, and the preparation needed to put the device into proper condition for conducting the test. This paper describes the various ways of recording the performance of fast-moving mechanisms, and includes a discussion of how to analyze and apply the data to practical development of apparatus."
"This paper describes a new lightweight recording equipment designed for use in small studios or on location. Also described are 4 new power supplies designed especially for use with sound recording equipment."
"The flat spiral reel employed for 6-ft lengths of still camera film is one of the most compact types of processing equipment. After preliminary chemical and physical treatment of the loaded reel it is possible to dry the film on the processing reel, thus diminishing the risk of damage in handling. — Complete processing units in 30-ft and 50-ft sizes have been built of stainless steel wire welded to flat radials. Other sizes are possible within limits which are discussed. The 2 mated sides were mounted on a reinforced bakelite hub which provides the bearing for rotation of the reel and terminates in a handle at one side. The stainless steel spirals were built by Nikor Products Co. — Accessory equipment consists of a rewind for loading and unloading the reel, processing and washing tanks, loose water stripper, and drying cabinet. — The intensity of agitation which can be given is limited. Consequently, while the uniformity of development is satisfactory for still photographs, it is not suitable for the most exacting motion picture work, although it may have some application in small-scale motion picture work."
"The first part of this paper deals with the scoring facilities available at Columbia Pictures in 1935, and the modification of the scoring stage built in that year to allow for the recording of larger bands. The second part describes the conversion of a production stage of 110,000 cu ft into a scoring stage, the advantages connected with the use of convex wood splays in such an enclosure, and the construction of a vocalist's room to allow the separate and simultaneous recording of songs, orchestrations, and combined renditions of the two. A description of the electric circuits employed for mixing 3 tracks is included."
"This paper gives some of the details of the construction of 2 shells at the Walt Disney Studio—one temporary and one permanent—and modifications which were made in the permanent installation to obtain the best acoustic balance for orchestra recording."
"The paper describes the purpose of the vocal room of the RKO Studios, and the factors involved in providing satisfactory acoustics for this room. In particular, to avoid coincident reinforcement of the normal modes of vibration, the ratio of the height, width, and length of this {small) enclosure was made to vary with the 2/3 power of 2."
"Details of operation of the permanent, acoustically designed vocal room at RKO Studios, and the electric circuits used for the recording of vocal and orchestra numbers are described."
"Many of the early musical recording techniques and scoring stage designs were natural consequences of early equipment limitations and the early technical approach to the general problem of music recording. Present-day equipment has lifted many of the technical restrictions, thus making desirable a reconsideration of musical recording, especially as related to the musician's problem, his ease of playing, and the acoustics which aid the musicians in playing together for an over-all effect. — This paper points out how past practices have restricted our musicians, and suggests ways of gaining greater freedom and better music to the microphone."
"The 2 following papers and subsequent discussion took place at a meeting of the Atlantic Coast Section of the Society in New York on March 22, 1944. The subject was limited to the use of film in television programs broadcast for reception in homes, as an alternative to the production of programs of this type directly from live talent. Discussion was directed along 3 lines, i. e., the effect on technical phases of picture quality such as definition and focus, possibilities in artistic effects, and economic aspects. It was emphasized that the views expressed were personal opinions and did not necessarily represent the policies of any company or organization. Discussion section follows the second paper—page 85."
"A process for duplicating Kodachrome transparencies for use in background projection is described."
"This paper describes the method whereby a color image-carrying emulsion may be transferred from a plastic film base onto another medium without distortion of the image or bleeding of the color values."
"The use of hand-colored slides in connection with transparency process production has long been practiced, but at best such slides are far from satisfactory. A solution to their limitations was to project and rephotograph natural color. Paramount Studios has designed and developed a stereopticon which projects natural color slides, and which incorporates such modern devices as a special relay-optical system, heat-absorbing shutter, and the latest-type projection light source. These features and other details of the transparency stereopticon are described in the following paper."
"A general survey of plastics as they apply to the motion picture industry, outlining molding and fabricating problems, basic material make-up, outstanding physical properties, and a general description of some of the actual usages of thermoplastic and thermosetting resins are given. The future of the many plastics is also briefly discussed."
"Since the projects of the ASA War Committee on Photography and Cinematography-Z52 were initiated early in December, 1943, members of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers have collaborated with the Armed Forces, the War Production Board, and the motion picture industry, in organizing technical committees to carry out these vital wartime needs. The Society was in an excellent position to make available the long experience and skill of its technical personnel, many of whom had already studied problems similar to those to be considered by the Armed Forces. — Following the unanimous approval of the project by the Board of Governors, the membership of all SMPE technical committees offered their services wholeheartedly and were immediately organized into new groups to undertake the responsibility of preparing specifications for ASA War Standards. In addition to Mr. Zimmerman, Chairman of Subcommittee D, six other SMPE members serve as chairmen or vice-chairmen of Z52 subcommittees. — Mr. Zimmerman's report of the completion of the principal project assigned to Subcommittee D is reprinted from Industrial Standardization."
"We are all talking nowadays of post-war planning; one small aspect of it is the cinematograph projector which we may hope to see designed after the war. I propose considering this projector of tomorrow not so much as a piece of mechanism (this aspect of the subject has been very ably dealt with in a number of SMPE papers'), but from the point of view of its purchaser, the exhibitor, and its user, the projectionist."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic or microfilm copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from The Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y., at prevailing rates."
"The Training Film Branch of the Navy is responsible for the procurement, production, and distribution of training films for all activities of the Navy. — The Branch (then Unit) was established, and carries on its work, according to conditions set down in a directive issued by the Secretary of the Navy on October 31, 1941. Since its establishment, the Branch has supervised the production of approximately 2000 titles covering every aspect of Naval training. — The organization of the Training Film Branch has grown from a small operational unit to a sizable activity made up of 5 sections; i. e., Procurement, Cataloguing, Distribution, Project Supervision, and Education.† At the present time, over 1100 training film titles, including both slide films and motion pictures, are in production. Two hundred persons, half of whom are officers, work for the Training Film Branch. The facilities of 50 commercial producers throughout the United States are being used in addition to the Navy's own production facilities at the Photographic Science Laboratory, Naval Air Station, Anacostia, D. C."
"Navy training film production procedures have been developed through nearly 2 years of production experience in the special problems of making films for the Navy. Procedures are designed to permit full use of commercial, industrial, and Navy film production facilities, and, at the same time, to insure full Navy control of film content, presentation, and security. — The production of a successful Navy training film requires close coöperation among the Navy activities requesting films, the Training Film Branch, and the film producer. Coordination of effort is established and maintained by means of a schedule of production which provides all contributors with a series of definite checking points. As each check point is reached, all persons concerned review progress and approve or disapprove plans for subsequent action. The established procedure for production reduces the time and cost of production, clarifies thinking in terms of the training purpose of the film, and assigns specific responsibility for each stage of film development. Only when these aims are accomplished can a training film meet the Navy standard of excellence."
"The Training Film Branch is responsible for giving Navy instructors photographic training aids that will help them instruct clearly, accurately, expeditiously, and well. Making such training aids is both a science and an art. As a science it requires fundamental psychological and educational knowledge as well as the photographic “know how.” It demands analysis of the subject matter to be taught, the situation in which it is to be taught, the men who are to learn, and the ways in which they can be taught. As an art it requires a synthesis of photographic techniques, expertness with words, teaching skills, and showmanship. — Out of analysis of the training situation comes definition of the film's specific purpose; determination of the idea and vocabulary level of the film; decision as to the teachable and usable unit breakdown of the film subject; and choice of the film medium and of photographic and script approach and method. From then on, during all phases of production, the staffs' responsibility is to see that narration, photography, animation, and effects all contribute to fulfilling the teaching purpose of the film."
"This is the story of a series of training films. It is one of many series being made on the vastly complicated mechanisms by which the Navy controls the fire of its guns. The original request came from the Fire Control and Gunner's Mates Schools in July, 1942, was approved, and assigned to a producer. Training Film Branch personnel, School staff, and producer's representative began research; began writing; began production. Some of the sailing was smooth, for possible snags had been foreseen. But others had not been anticipated. These included the use of color in presenting complicated, difficult, and technical material; and the changes and modifications in equipment that were effected after films were started but before they were completed. Securing writers with the necessary training and experience was difficult owing to the nature of the subject matter. — But these problems were tackled as they came along, and most of them have been solved, even including a revision of the curriculum of the Fire Control School in order to make full use of films."
"Experience gained from the production of training films for the armed services is discussed in its application to post-war technical problems."
"The title of this paper, Cinematography Goes to War, is self-explanatory. It deals with the science of motion pictures as utilized by our Armed Forces in modern warfare. Principally, this paper concerns itself with the Army Air Forces which, within little more than one year, developed the First Motion Picture Unit at Culver City, Calif. The importance of motion pictures in the over-all war effort can not be overemphasized. In the fields of reconnaissance, news values on the home front, and visual aid instructions that are saving American lives and property, cinematography today plays a foremost role. — To correctly understand what the First Motion Picture Unit is doing, we must break its functions into two phases: the first trains combat cameramen who go into the thick of battle to photograph occurrences that are of inestimable value to our High Command; the second covers the making of training films. These, too, can not be underestimated in importance. To our Air Forces such films are as valuable as arms and planes. For through their auditory and visionary instruction are saved the lives of hundreds of American airmen and thousands of dollars worth of American planes."
"The Navy's Industrial Incentive Division was established in May, 1942, for the purpose of bringing home in proper perspective to the worker his important role in the war effort. The end result sought is to increase the production and quality of fighting equipment and material. — To do this, many techniques are utilized, but it was determined that the motion picture would be a most effective medium to dramatize to the worker his importance in winning the war. Accordingly, it was decided to produce incentive films for exclusive showing to workers in plants producing for the Navy. — The philosophy behind the employment of incentive films is that the worker who sees them can project himself on the screen and obtain a better, fuller understanding of the job ahead. These films are being shown now in hundreds of war plants. Reports indicate that Industrial Incentive films are proving an important stimulus to production."
"By far the larger part of Army training films is “nuts-and-bolts” pictures. About a year ago, it was decided that while the American soldier was getting excellent training in the handling of his weapons and equipment, the mental or psychological side of his training left something to be desired. To counteract the mental stresses and battlefield psychosis common to men who go into combat for the first time, the Army Ground Force Headquarters decided, in September of 1942, that a series of films should be prepared that would serve, in a sense, as precombat conditioning. From the viewpoint of the Army, this series has been an outstanding success. These films have brought a man as close to combat as he can get without actually engaging an enemy. — The Army has pioneered in using the screen as a medium for psychological instruction and conditioning. To change a man's way of thinking and acting under stress is a difficult job, but it has been found that the screen possesses the potential ability to do so."
"This is the Fifty-Fourth Semi-Annual meeting of our Society. The twenty-fifth anniversary of its founding was commemorated by the silver bound issue of the JOURNAL of July, 1941."
"An optical printer of radically new design and construction is described and illustrated. Besides doing all of the conventional optical printing effects, the new Acme-Dunn optical printer can make automatically driven dolly or “zoom” shots at any practical speed, make horizontal or vertical frame slide-off effects, wipe off in any direction at any speed, do frame-combination printing within a 12-frame cycle, and enlarge from 16-mm, including successful 3-frame separation negatives."
"The U. S. Army Pictorial Service on September 24, 1943, requested the Engineering Vice-President of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers to consider immediately the preparation of a group of Performance Specifications for motion picture equipment, accessories, and processes. It was emphasized that even though the request was initiated by the Army Pictorial Service, actually the request came from the Armed Forces represented by the U. S. Army Signal Corps, U. S. Army Air Forces, U. S. Army Engineer Corps, Bureau of Aeronautics, U. S. Navy, and U. S. Marine Corps. As the request was most urgent, an informal meeting of the Committee on Standards of the SMPE was called by the Chairman arid the Engineering Vice-President to be held on September 27, 1943."
"During the last few years, the public has shown a greatly increased interest in color photography. A few years ago, the introduction of a direct method of making color transparencies made the practice of color photography very much easier than it had been, and at the present time a very large number of photographs are taken in color. Approximately three-quarters of the home motion pictures are made in color, and more than twenty million still pictures are being taken in color this year. I think that if I were to ask the average man in the street, however: “What is the status of color photography?” he would say : “Oh, you can make photographs in color, but we have not yet got real color photography.” And if I cross-examined him as to his meaning, I should find that what he was thinking about was the production of prints in color; that he felt that to achieve real “color photography,” it should be possible to load a camera with a film and then after the film was developed, to obtain from it a color print, just as a black-and-white print is obtained from an ordinary film exposure."
"The modern trend toward the use of monopack film presents the photographic technician with the problem of making color separations from the resultant color transparency. These should approach in quality those obtained directly by the use of one-shot cameras. A procedure is outlined to accomplish this, using negative masks to correct for the overlaps in the spectral curves of the dye images in the transparency."
"Experience with the direct positive method of recording on film has proved to be practical under normal operating conditions. The advantages with respect to sound quality, operation, and cost are pointed out."
"This paper describes a method whereby the light-valve image may be magnified and projected on a screen to permit the inspection of the valve's operation under both a static condition and the application of steady tone."
"Constructional, operational, and personnel features of the new du Pont Photo Products control laboratory are outlined."
"Motion picture printers now in common use were designed to be operated at a moderate running speed with a single type of film of such emulsion speed that ample exposures were obtained by the use of low-wattage tungsten lamps. Recently the use of a variety of fine-grain films has made necessary greater exposure intensities. Tungsten lamps of higher wattage or mercury-vapor lamps have satisfied, the need for increased light intensity in some cases, but have not been found practicable for use in others. — Greater optical efficiency is needed in many of the printers. This can be obtained by the use of light-collecting systems involving the use of either condensers or reflectors. Some special problems are introduced by the peculiarities of the mechanical arrangements of the printers and sometimes by the requirement of uniformity of illumination, both at the printing aperture and at the light-change aperture. — Examples showing the application of condenser and reflector systems to 2 typical printers are given with a detailed description of the optical design as well as of the mechanical problems encountered. Data are given on the increase in illumination efficiency obtainable in practice."
"A variable-density sound negative developer composed of Metol, borax, and sulfite is described. That such a sound negative developer is possible, is shown by a preliminary survey of the literature pertaining to hydroquinone-Metol activity at low pH values. In a developer so constituted and coupled with an adequate replenisher system, the oxidation factor is practically negligible and results in a stable pH value which in turn permits the elimination of the usual buffering agents. The value of such a developer is that it permits greater simplicity of chemical control and results in some economy. — Sensitometric data obtained from the operation of this developer show a negative H and D characteristic of maximum linear latitude, and normal printing characteristics. Gamma-density relationship is very stable during continuous negative developing runs, thus making possible quantity production of sound negatives of uniform density."
"One of the major inherent characteristics of scientists, engineers, and technically trained personnel, either as individuals or as groups of individuals, is a general tendency to be overmodest about their accomplishments. The membership comprising the Society of Motion Picture Engineers is no exception to this characteristic, but it does seem justifiable to review the technical accomplishments of our Society on the basis of the record."
"The various types of motor systems and speed controls used in motion picture production are reviewed, evaluated, and the basic theory of operation described."
"The degree of washing of photographic films and prints is usually determined by estimating the hypo content of either (a) the photographic material, (b) the wash water, or (c) the drippings collected from the material. Various hypo testing methods are described including the use of either potassium permanganate, iodine, mercuric chloride, silver nitrate, or electrical conductivity measurements. — It is shown that chemical or electrical measurements of the hypo content of wash water, or drippings from washed photographic materials, do not give an accurate indication of the quantity of residual hypo in the film or print but may be used for control purposes with continuous processing machines. — Spot tests made on the surface of the material with iodine solutions, e. g., iodineazide-starch, are not easily reproducible with respect to the ratio of the volume of test solution to the area of the film or print to which it is applied. — Bathing tests in which the film or print is immersed in the test solution, e. g., iodineazide-starch, are reproducible with respect to volume of reagent and the area treated but do not measure the total residual hypo in the material. — Chemical and electrical conductivity measurements of hypo in the wash water, etc., the spot test methods and the. bathing tests may be used, however, for control purposes to indicate the degree of washing if they are first standardized by a testing method which determines the hypo content of the film or print quantitatively, that is, the total residual hypo. — The total residual hypo in films may be determined quantitatively by use of the Crabtree-Ross mercuric chloride test and in prints by a silver nitrate test which involves the conversion of hypo to silver sulfide in situ and estimating the silver sulfide by (a) measurement of the transmission density of the silver sulfide stain, and then reading the corresponding residual hypo content from a standard curve, or (b) matching the silver sulfide stain produced by a drop of silver nitrate with a series of standard stains."
"In view of the widespread interest in explosions and their effects, a non-mathematical discussion is offered attempting to explain in a qualitative way some of the characteristics of waves resulting from explosions. No new data are offered, but several references are given. A number of peculiarities of high-pressure waves may be deduced from the simple and well-known fact that the higher the compression, the greater is the velocity of propagation, plus the theorem developed by Rayleigh and others, that close to a source which is small compared to wave length, the air constitutes an inertia load rather than a pure resistance."
"The use of an additional microphone to provide an anticipation signal to operate noise-reduction circuits is described, the anticipation microphone being placed ahead of the signal microphone by sufficient distance so that the noise-reduction element in a modulator is fully opened to permit recording of the maximum signal amplitude. In rerecording a special hill-and-dale record is made of the last rehearsal. This record is then played back during the take, the output being fed to the noise-reduction circuit and anticipation being accomplished by moving the needle ahead on the disk by an appropriate distance."
"In the following article the Eastman Type III High-Speed Camera is briefly described, and particular emphasis is given to the improvements of this model over the Type II Camera in design and operation."
"This paper describes an extremely flexible portable sound recording unit assembled and placed in service by the First Motion Picture Unit of the Army Air Forces, whose Headquarters are located in Culver City, California. It includes a general description of the equipment used, with special attention given to the provision of power supply facilities. — The equipment selected is of such nature that special manufacturing processes are unnecessary, and power supply arrangements are such that use of the channel is not restricted by the fixed conditions of weight and bulk usually associated with the conventional recording channel."
"To carry on an extensive training film program it is necessary to define terms and procedures in order to eliminate confusion and cut to a minimum the many aspects of the job which are generally considered as unpredictable. — Five factors must be considered in the construction of every training film: the truth about a condition or set of conditions, interpretation of the truth, visualization, verbalization, and emphases. These 5 factors make up the basic training film formula, variations in the application of which result in the pattern of the film. The pattern of any training film is as interesting and effective as the mental, manual, and mechanical skills and equipment used in the development of the formula permit it to be. The pattern of a given training film is established for the purpose of achieving specific predetermined objectives with a specific audience."
"The producer of training films may well combine the discoveries of psychology with the techniques of the motion picture. Such a combination will have as its antecedent the realization that a training film is only as good as it is an effective instrument of behavior control. While changes in the behavior of the trainee provide the final measure of excellence of the picture, standards of excellence must be considered before and during production. A film to be effective must have 4 basic characteristics: it must be built in the form of a narrative, around the successful solution of a problem; it must possess opportunities for directed identification; it must be convincingly logical; and it must be an artistic production."
"In preparing slide films to teach pilots in the South Pacific how to survive if forced down in enemy territory, the Training Film Branch has carried on experimental work that has definite implications for the motion picture training film field. The Jap—His Honorable Self, a slide film on how to “out-Jap” a Jap, provides a good example of this experimental work. — The initial problem was to get pilots in the final stages of operational training or on combat duty to be willing to view slide films to which they were frankly allergic as a medium smacking too strongly of the traditional classroom. — Secondly, because of the complexity of the material to be presented, an original treatment had to be devised to achieve a psychologic impact that would enable pilots to remember survival facts months after viewing the film. This treatment involved fresh approaches in script and art work, and the use of a color process new in the 35-mm commercial field."
"The responsibility for the expenditure of funds for the production of training films, the making of release prints, and the purchase of miscellaneous items in connection with the Navy's training film program is centered in the Procurement Section of the Training Film Branch. — This Section, with a personnel of thirteen, consisting of officers, enlisted men, and civilians, operates in much the same manner as an efficiently run purchasing office of a large commercial organization. However, film producers have had to learn that the basis of their dealings with the Navy differs radically from the manner in which they had been accustomed to dealing with their commercial customers. From its inception, the Procurement Section has applied much of its energies to “indoctrinating” producers in Navy procurement policies and procedures. — The Procurement Section has been almost constantly beset with various problems, some of which were inherently problems of the Section, but many of which were problems merely because they were the problems of producers. At the present time, however, most of the problems have been solved to such an extent that commercial producers of Navy training films are operating on an efficient basis that assures them a reasonable profit. At the same time, the Navy is getting the most for its training film dollar in quality, quantity, and timeliness."
"The best teaching is that which is done in a relaxed atmosphere—one in which the students are in sympathy with the instructor. Therefore, when a training film is used as an aid to the instructor, it should also to some degree provide a measure of relaxation. One of the most effective methods of creating a relaxed atmosphere is by the use of humor. — In film form, humor may manifest itself in many ways. There is the humor of negative example, of situation, and of plot. There is narrative humor, pictorial humor, custard-pie humor, and the subtlety of camera humor. These various types of humor may be blended so that the resulting laugh is derived from the combination of any two or even three of these techniques. — But, however the humor is achieved, it may serve as a genuine neurotherapeutic measure to the men who view the films aboard ships at sea, or at shore stations at distant advance bases, and create a closer union between the teacher and the taught."
"The training film is primarily a motion picture, not a sound track illustrated with pictures. A training film succeeds in its mission to the extent that it can maintain eye-attention, and consequently interest. The major responsibility for arousing and sustaining interest is the job of the camera, not the microphone, as is too infrequently demonstrated. The substitution of track modulations for pictures results in a deadly kind of training film, effective only as a sleep-producer or sedative. Subverting the track and placing the burden of maintaining interest on the camera, where it rightfully belongs, will result in training films that are stimulants. — New techniques and new equipment may be needed to fully exploit the camera. Whatever motion picture engineers can do to increase the flexibility and mobility of the camera, especially in non-studio use, will help."
"It may be a surprise to many of today's SMPE members that standardization was probably the most important reason for the founding of the Society. A reading of the early issues of the Transactions of the Society, following its founding in 1916, shows a preponderance of articles (now called by the more dignified title of papers) on the subject of standardization. To cite just a few instances at random, in the second issue of the Transactions there is an article on the importance of precision in the manufacture of cine machinery and film, and another article setting forth suggested standard dimensions for slitting and perforating 35-mm film which are substantially the dimensions in use today."
"The design of amplifier equipment for military use differs considerably from the design of amplifiers for the commercial market, both in the physical details of construction and in the quality of parts which must be used for trouble-free operation in the field."
"A film is described which has circular perforations in each frame which are punched after exposure and processing of the film. The perforations in each frame are located from the normal film perforation and from the edge of the film which is guided during projection. The modification of a standard Bell and Howell perforator for producing this film and a method for checking the accuracy of the finished film are described."
"Data are given on the effect of filament shift and filament rotation on the screen brightness and brightness uniformity in a high-efficiency 16-mm projection optical system. The data show that the filament location and orientation are critical for maximum brightness and best uniformity. The precision illumination-testing projection equipment used in making these tests is described."
"The unsteadiness of the film motion in a motion picture camera may be directly measured in terms of the maximum failure to return frames to identical register on successive passages of the film through the camera by photographing a ruled target during each of the successive passes, and inclining the target before the second passage of the film through the camera. The amount of tilt and the line width depend on the focal length of the lens being used and the resolving power of the film."
"The planning and construction of a new-type mobile film recording unit in use in Hollywood and by two branches of the Armed Forces are described."
"A method of ascertaining the gradient speed of a photographic material without the use of special gradient measuring instruments is pointed out. The derived formula shows the relation which must exist between density and log exposure at the value of exposure which is the reciprocal of the speed."
"This paper describes a new truck-mounted recording channel for use in a studio or on location. The interesting features include a new 200-mil push-pull modulator, limiting amplifier, together with test and lineup equipment so arranged as to make it possible for relatively inexperienced personnel to operate it without undue supervision. Circuit descriptions, operating data, and photographs are included to completely depict the recording system."
"The problems and techniques concerned with locating scenes and other data in motion picture films after they have been deposited in the vaults of The National Archives in Washington are discussed and illustrated. The method is divided into two considerations: work which under the present man-power crisis must be done quickly, and work which may reasonably be postponed. The technique involves a “reference summary” which supplies the headline of the story and pertinent information, both of which may be read with a glance by the searcher. — A subject index card is another finding medium described. Compiled directly from the reference summary, the index card lists particular subjects found in a particular film, and gives the film's call or reference number. — Experimental work is being done at The National Archives on still another finding tool called a “reference film strip.” Consisting of one frame for each title and for each important scene or subject, printed in sequence, it permits the searcher to see photographically the contents of the motion picture involved. The emphasis which this paper intends, however, is in behalf of the reference summary and the subject index file which should be created first to provide the searcher with the essential facts of his quest."
"A brief survey of the importance of the motion picture and its preservation as an outstanding part of the Nation's culture; summary of the various ways in which early films were lost, destroyed or left to decay; an analysis of recent attempts by various individuals and organizations (public and private) to minimize this significant loss to motion picture art by the rescue of remaining films, and an account of their difficulties arising from the great scarcity of early film material. — A narration of how the early film companies (Edison, Biograph, and others) sent photographic paper tape of their films to The Library of Congress for copyright as photographs; how these paper prints were stored as copyright deposits from 1897 to 1915 in an almost continuous sequence; the recent discovery by The Library of Congress that these prints could be rephotographed through optical printing to celluloid, thereby restoring almost all of the early films to the screen in a single, comprehensive project. — The importance of this discovery from social, aesthetic, and historical viewpoints is discussed."
"In a very brief outline the writer relates some of the highlights of the history of the motion picture and makes a plea that the industry take a more active interest in its own archives and the remaining relics of its own development. The years have taken most of its stalwart pioneers and their records have been scattered by the winds of time. — Recently The Library of Congress, under the administration of Archibald MacLeish, realised that it had, tucked away in its old repositories, a priceless and almost complete collection of all the motion pictures made or exhibited in the United States from 1896 to 1912. This collection is printed on fragile ribbons of paper and can not be projected in its present form. — Howard L. Walls, in charge of Motion Picture Collections, The Library of Congress, brought samples of these paper films to John G. Bradley, Chief of the Division of Motion Pictures and Sound Recordings, The National Archives. A description is given of how a method was worked out and the task of converting these paper records back to modern standard motion picture films was begun."
"The fact that many peace-time industries and manufacturing plants have been converted practically 100 per cent into war plants manufacturing implements for war, is a well-known, not unusual fact. However, when a cartoon studio, which for many years has been engaged in creating whimsical entertainment for the screen, suddenly becomes a war plant, it is a somewhat more unusual fact. — From a studio whose yearly production program included 2 or 3 features, plus 24 short subjects, Walt Disney Productions has at this time no feature in work, and is having difficulty producing a minimum number of short subjects. All of this, of course, is caused by the fact that between 90 and 95 per cent of the facilities of the organization are today devoted to producing training films for the Navy, the Army Signal Corps, the Army Air Forces, the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, the Treasury Department, and other governmental agencies. — This “change-over” in product at the Walt Disney Studio has brought a set of problems that is not frequently encountered in the average war plant. There was no radical “change-over” of heavy machinery, or the installation of new dies and presses. It was mental rather than physical adjustment. — A studio and its personnel accustomed to working for 2 or 3 years on one picture were suddenly requisitioned to produce a film, twice feature length, in 4 to 6 months. The financial departments accustomed to budgeting pictures for ½ of a million to 1½ million dollars found themselves piecing out $12,000 and $15,000, and less, for production budgets. Creative personnel accustomed to racking their brains for a new switch on some problem near and dear to Donald Duck's personality found themselves commissioned to explain to men at Navy training bases all aspects of the functioning and maintenance of a gyroscope, and its relation to the over-all functioning of an aerial torpedo. — To accomplish all of these ends, then, has been the task. That it has been accomplished is evidenced by the films now in use in all branches of the service. That the results have been worth while is indicated in several ways, but in no way more satisfying than when a man in uniform stops at the studio and states that he viewed such-and-such a picture in a combat zone and adds, “.…it sure helped.”"
"Motion pictures, “just around the corner” for many years, have at last “come into their own.” Although educators proved by numerous tests and studies that lessons, taught through the medium of motion pictures, were learned faster, retained longer, and were more thoroughly assimilated than by any other method of teaching, only industry had really recognized these facts and put them into action up to the start of the war. It took a world upheaval to break the inertia, and give motion pictures their rightful place in training programs. — In the agricultural field films are used to assist in the conversion of our agricultural production to the needs of total war. This, too, is a training job—the production of new and unfamiliar crops, efficient methods and short cuts to offset the lack of labor, good soil conservation practices, etc. Agricultural pictures are made also to assist in building and maintaining morale, to inform concerning war food conditions, and to promote definite agricultural programs. Industry has coöperated by producing pictures designed to help the war food situation. Foreign governments, notably the British and Canadian, have also produced and made available in the. United States many pictures on the production and conservation of food. These agricultural pictures are bound to have a tremendous effect in the prosecution of the war."
"The Research Council's Basic Sound Committee has been giving consideration for quite some time to the possibility of standardizing on the characteristics of pre-and post-equalizers for studio use."
"In the various standards there will be found a number of different situations regarding Usual Service Conditions. The following three are typical.1. The group where the maximum ambient temperature is specified. The Standards for Bushings, Fuses, Lightning Arresters, Protector Tubes and Potential Devices where 40 C ambient is used and Marine Equipment where 50 C ambient is used are typical of this group.2. The group where both the maximum and daily average temperatures of the cooling medium are specified. Standards for Transformers, Regulators and Neutral Grounding Devices are typical of this group.3. The group where a higher ambient temperature is specified for silver contacts than for copper contacts. Standards for Circuit Breakers, Air Switches and Switchgear Assemblies are typical of this group.It is suggested that a selection of one of the following groups can be made for the statement of Usual Service Conditions in most of the standards for specific equipment."
"These standards comprise a manual of test procedures to be followed in making tests to determine the characteristics of insulators to be used on electric power systems. They are not intended to include test procedure for apparatus bushings. Since these standards are not intended to be insulator specifications, the individual tests may be made a part of an insulator specification only when specifically designated in contract specifications. In all cases where these standards include high voltage measurements, the methods, equipment, and technique shall be in accordance with American Standards for Measurement of Test Voltage in Dielectric Tests, C68.1-1942 or latest revision thereof."
"Presents the title page to the paper presented at this conference."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The fundamental electrical nature of matter and its relation to the chemical and physical behavior of materials is more widely recognized at present than ever before. Dielectric constant, power factor and conductivity studies have proven to be powerful means of increasing our understanding of the structure and physical chemical properties of molecules. This information is not only important in order to characterize and appraise materials for insulation but also for other types of products. It is interesting to note that some of the important researches stimulated by the war effort were beginning to appear in various papers found in the literature of the past year. This accounts in part for the distinct increase in volume of literature on the subject. It also should be recognized that the research on electrical properties has been greatly extended due to exacting specifications for instance of insulation material, to the increase in facilities and precision equipment for electrical measurements, and to the additional thought devoted to the subject."
"The type of investigations and publications in 1944 bears a striking contrast to those in 1943. The chief problem of the whole rubber industry in 1943 was one of supply and of conversion from natural to synthetic rubber products. At the beginning of 1944, the wire and cable industry had completed its conversion replacing natural rubber chiefly with Buna S or GR-S. The primary stage having been successfully passed, attention was turned to more intricate improvements in the compounding and processing of GR-S for electrical insulation, the development of a wider variety of GR-S insulating compounds, and the investigation of newly developed synthetic rubbers and compounding ingredients."
"Three doctoral theses prepared at the Institute of Paper Chemistry and based on investigations of the power factor and dielectric strength of insulating papers are summarized by J. A. Van den Akker1. In order to study variables affecting power factor of paper dielectrics an apparatus has been devised by means of which a condenser made from test sheets of paper can first be thoroughly dried under vacuum and the power factor determined at various pressures and temperatures. One of the features of this apparatus is a device employing a spirit level for accurately measuring electrode spacing. Flushing the test chamber with dry nitrogen at intervals while drying had no effect on the final power factor of the sample though equilibrium was attained in a slightly shorter time."
"Synthetic die1ectric materials are now seasoned veterans of the present Global War. The extreme conditions of temperature. humidity and fungus attack encountered by combat equipment has required various adjustments in the compositions of standard plastics. the development of more heat resistant types of materials. and constant re-evaluation of the performance char.acteristics of all materials. The total production of major plastics is tremendous. "
"The insulating oil literature discussed in this review is grouped under the following sections: I. Fundamental Studies 1. Electrical Stability 2. Oxidation Stability II. Transformer Oils III. Cable Oils"
"In 1944 probably fewer papers on ceramic insulation were published than in former years. This, no doubt, is caused by the pressure of war production, which frequently cuts down the time for preparation of papers for publication. The secrecy imposed on the publication of new methods and inventions may also be partly responsible for the decline in papers published. An increased flow of literature will probably be witnessed in the post-war period."
"This Edition Is Limited to Steam Turbines Intended to Drive Electric Generators of Not Less Than 10,000 Kw Rated Capacity."
