"The following indicated admissions and transfers of memberships have been approved by the Admissions Committee. Objections to any of these should reach the Institute office by the date specified herein."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming meetings of interest to all I.R.E. members."
"The professional man has an obligation to give wide dissemination to new discoveries and developments. This may be done by publication and by oral presentation before technical groups. The proper presentation of a paper requires the co-ordination of four groups or individuals. A check list of their duties is given which may be used as a reference in the planning of technical sessions."
"Tuned circuits for frequencies from 100 to 1000 megacycles are described, which combine the mechanical simplicity and compactness of low-frequency coil-capacitor circuits with electrical performance suitable for very-high-frequency and ultra-high-frequency applications. Tuning ranges of 4 to 1 are readily obtained, both with and without sliding contacts. Application of the circuits in negative-grid-triode oscillators is discussed."
"New dielectrics obtained from silica by modification with organic groups are described. These new organo-silicon-oxide polymers, commonly called silicones, have a higher order of heat stability than conventional organic insulating materials in the same physical forms. An outgrowth of research in glass by the Corning Glass Works and their Technical Glass Fellowship at the Mellon Institute, silicones went through a period of industrial development at the Dow Chemical Company and are now in large-scale production by Dow Corning Corporation at Midland, Michigan. Silicone products include liquid dielectrics, electrical sealing compounds, insulating varnishes, and many other forms in which organic dielectrics have been known. The liquids are low-loss dielectrics over a wide frequency spectrum, and are used to waterproof ceramic surfaces to prevent surface leakage at high humidities. The sealing compounds are used to exclude moisture from disconnect junctions in aircraft-engine ignition systems and are similarly useful in radio components. The resins are natural complements to inorganic insulations like mica, fibrous glass, and asbestos to produce a new class of electrical insulation capable of withstanding long overloads at severe humidity conditions or high operating temperatures."
"It has been the custom to illustrate the throat impedance of the exponential horn as exhibiting a sharp cutoff characteristic. That the horn can propagate sound below this cutoff frequency is recognized by practical workers. The present note shows that this discrepancy between theory asd practice is reconcilable. Equations based on accepted theory are used to compute the throat impedance below cutoff, and it is shown that both the resistive and reactive components of this impedance remain finite."
"The analyses presented for both the voltage-tripling and quadrupling rectifier circuits have been made with the chief assumption being that of zero potential across the tubes when conducting. The characteristics obtained from the analyses and checked experimentally include those of the output direct voltage and the per cent ripple. These characteristics are useful in the design of the circuits and in predetermining their performance."
"This paper discusses the properties of mixers in terms of linear-network theory. In Part I the network equations are derived from the fundamental properties of nonlinear resistive elements. Part II contains a résumé of the appropriate formulas of linear-network theory. In Part III the network theory is applied, first to the case of simple nonlinear resistances, and next to the more general case where the nonlinear resistance is embedded in a network of parasitic resistive and reactive passive-impedance elements. In Part IV application of the previous results is made to the measurement of performance properties. The \"impedance\" and the \"incremental\" methods of measuring loss are contrasted, and it is shown that the actual loss is given by the incremental method when certain special precautions are taken, while the impedance method is in itself incomplete."
"Electron-concentrating systems are subject to certain limitations because of the thermal velocities of electrons leaving the cathode. A figure of merit is proposed for measuring the goodness of a device in this respect. This figure of merit is the ratio of the area of the aperture which, in an ideal system with the same important parameters as the actual system, would pass a given fraction of the cathode current to the area of the aperture which in the actual system does pass this fraction of the cathode current. Expressions are given for evaluating this figure of merit."
"Various types of electronic regulator circuits are discussed and an analysis is made of the degenerative or cathode-follower type, since it offers the most in flexibility and regulation. Equations are derived showing the theoretical output voltage, regulation characteristics, and output impedance for the basic circuit. Practical-design considerations evolved from these equations show the desirability of high-transconductance series-control tubes and high gain in the amplifier section. A complete circuit is presented for a multiple-output regulator which, by combining regulated sections in opposition, covers the range from 0 to 500 volts. The design is such that a single rectifier and filter are supplying constant current throughout the selected range of output current. This effectively eliminates from consideration the usual regulation introduced by the latter components. Curves are included showing actual regulation characteristics for several combinations of output voltage and current."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following indicated admissions and transfers of memberships have been approved by the Admissions Committee. Objections to any of these should reach the Institute office by the date specified herein."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming meetings of interest to all I.R.E. members."
"The Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee, an organization of the Federal government, more commonly referred to as the IRAC, will have been in active continuous existence for 23 years this summer. It is composed of the representatives of twelve government agencies, their alternates, and a small secretariat. Five of these agencies are represented on the organization's technical subcommittee, its only standing committee. The IRAC came into existence June 1, 1922. The author provides the history of the IRAC, its relationship to other agencies, its internal organization, and the principles it follows in the conduct of its work."
"The rapidly increasing complexity of radio engineering practice and the employment of very-high frequencies necessitates more thorough and intensive training of radio-engineering students. Greater facility in mathematics will be required, but should be accompanied by adequate correlation between the mathematics and the physics of the problem. The use of animated motion-picture films, working models, or static models and diagrams suitable for textbook use, are discussed as one means of improving educational methods."
"This paper describes the use of frequency-modulated, very-high-frequency radio sets in place of wire lines in Army tactical communication circuits. During the early phases of the war and pending development and production of equipment designed to meet requirements, standard police-type frequency-modulation sets were adapted for use. These were used with great success during the Tunisian, Sicilian, and Italian campaigns. Principally they provided simplex teletype circuits from higher headquarters to lower units. By the use of radio-repeater or relay stations these circuits were extended several hundred miles. Representative circuits are shown illustrative of employment, distances covered, and antenna elevations. A broad-band frequency-modulated very-high-frequency set designated AN/TRC-1 was developed for use in conjunction with voice-frequency-carrier equipment CF-1 and CF-2 to provide multichannel voice and teletype circuits over a single radio frequency. This has met with great success and was a most important communication factor in the Normandy invasion and battle of France. It marks the first real marriage of wire and radio communications in the Army and provides an integrated communication system. The advantages of a radio system over conventional wire lines under certain conditions are pointed out, such as a saving in men and material, establishment and maintenance of communications in a fast-moving situation, use over water, enemy territory, and rugged or mountainous terrain. Expanding and wider application of the principle is indicated."
"A system of automatic radio direction finding is described that operates on the principle of effectively converting the radio-frequency currents developed in two low-impedance loops into direct currents of proportional amplitude and having the same relative polarity as the instantaneous values of the radio-frequency currents developed. By utilizing the two fixed loops in space quadrature, direct currents are obtained which can be applied to an indicating meter or cathode-ray tube in such a manner as to give a continuous visual indication of the angle, in the horizontal plane, at which an incident wave is striking the loop assembly."
"It is shown that impedance and gain functions can be determined by the use of an electrolytic tank. The method is amply accurate and is rapid and convenient when the locations of the poles and zeros of the function to be determined are known. Full details of the theory are given, a suitable experimental setup is described, and typical results are shown."
"A simplified method is presented for the calculation of the voltage wave forms of nonsinusoidal voltage generators in which the circuit action is dependent upon the exponential charging and discharging of capacitors. A number of multivibrator circuits are then discussed and analyzed in accordance with this method."
"The Foster reactance theorem which states that in any loss-free network, dX/dω is positive, is here proved for any loss-free resonator. However, to establish the existence of an input impedance, the author feeds the resonator with a coaxial (or other suitable) transmission line. The proof is based upon an extension of Helmholtz's theorem of adiabatic invariants. The variation of frequency is attained by a slow (adiabatic) movement of a short-circuiting plug in the transmission line while the cavity is oscillating."
"This paper describes the design of a series of resistance-capacitance tuned oscillators of the polyphase type. A single-mesh phase-shift network is used for coupling the N tubes of the oscillator which are arranged in a feedback ring. Limiting the discussion to oscillators of odd phases, the author has developed design formulas and has analyzed typical circuits. Experimental results are shown to check closely those predicted by theory."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following indicated admissions and transfers of memberships have been approved by the Admissions Committee. Objections to any of these should reach the Institute office by the date specified herein."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of upcoming meetings of interest to all I.R.E. members."
"One of the serious weaknesses in the organization of research in the radio industry between the two world wars was the absence of adequate research or incentives to research, on the part of RCA licensees. Another weakness was the tendency to bureaucracy in the large industrial laboratories. Our major postwar scientific need is for more men who combine a thorough training in their subjects with creative originality. Such men can be produced, but industry must give further thought to the conditions which lead to the most effective flowering of group and individual scientific productivity. There has been a tendency in the radio and other industries to burn up our young research men and exploit their youthful energy. There were very few companies in the radio industry prior to the war that had acquired the research spirit. Most of them were essentially imitative. The major rewards in these companies went to manufacturing positions, and the research men were given very little freedom and were placed under considerable pressure for short-range results. Where significant research contributions were made, adequate recognition was not given. This pattern should be changed, but it cannot be done merely by giving lip service to research. Another vital task is the protection of research personnel during business depressions. If we go through a period of difficult postwar readjustment, there is a serious danger that the research interest which is now developing in the medium-sized and small companies will not survive."
"This paper reports the findings of an investigation to determine the tonal-range and sound-intensity preferences of a representative cross section of radio-broadcast listeners. As contrasted to former studies that have been undertaken to detemine the theoretical or ideal requirements for the transmission and reproduction of broadcast program material, this undertaking ascertained the tonal range and sound intensity that the average listener considered most pleasant; that is, the method of reproduction the listener would select for use in his home when listening for enjoyment. Almost 500 subjects, in small groups, took part in the tests and all together, over 10,000 individual preferences were indicated. In addition to the \"average\" listeners, tests were undertaken with a group of professional musicians whose training presumably qualified them as critical listeners, and with a group of frequency-modulation listeners. A wide variety of program material, including popular, light-classical, and classical music, male and female vocals, and male and female spoken and dramatic speech, was presented at three tonal ranges. These were arbitrarily designated as narrow, medium, and wide. The exact frequency ranges used are shown in Fig. 1. The trend was consistent throughout the investigation. The main conclusions of the study are: (a) Listeners prefer either a narrow or medium tonal range to a wide one. However, the exact choice of bandwidth varies to some extent, within these limits, for different types of program content."
"An amplitude- or phase-modulation receiving system is described in which the harmonic distortion produced by fading of the carrier with respect to the sidebands is eliminated. The various parts of such a receiver, including the carrier filter, automatic-frequency-control discriminator, and detecting systems, are described. Analyses are given of the selectivity effect due to carrier exaltation and of exalted-carrier diode and multigrid detection. The optimum degree of carrier exaltation and the effect of carrier limiting are discussed. Results are given of observations of reception on an exalted-carrier diversity receiving system."
"This paper is an extension of an article by V. Y. Savelyev appearing under the title \"On the Theory of the Klystron,\" in the Journal of Technical Physics (Russian), vol. 10, no. 16; 1940. Appreciation is here expressed for the permission granted to The Institute of Radio Engineers to present portions, modifications or extensions of this material in the pages of its PROCEEDINGS. Savelyev's work is a review of some of the results of Webster, and seems to present a simpler method of development, especially in respect to electron-repulsion effects in the beam. In this article the use of the kiystron as an amplifier and as an oscillator, and the optimum operating conditions are considered. The restricting assumption is that the depth of modulation be small, and the time of flight of an electron through the buncher is neglected. It is found that, in the case of an amplifier, the presence of electron-repulsion debunching sets a limit to the upper value of length of drift space which can be used. Thus the gain is limited. In the case of the oscillator operating under optimum conditions the debunching has very little effect."
"Methods for facilitating the design of phase-shift oscillators at extreme frequencies of a fraction of a cycle to a few megacycles are discussed. It is shown that, if the input impedance of each section of a lumped resistance-capacitance network is made K times that of the previous section, the gain required for oscillation can be reduced to a theoretical minimum of 8 for a three-section network with K high, as against 29 for a K of unity. A new circuit element called the \"resistance-capacitance transmission line,\" consisting of a resistance covered by a well-insulated and grounded metal surface, is introduced and is analyzed as a phase-shifting network to give reliable operation in a phase-shift oscillator at frequencies up to a few megacycles. Curves are presented to facilitate the design of the latter type of oscillator. Various configurations of the resistance-capacitance transmission line are discussed and experimental results are presented."
"The theory of the two-electrode nonlinear mixer for superheterodyne use is developed so as to include the effect of resistive impedance at image frequency. The general theory is applied to the calculation of conversion loss under optimum conditions of matching the intermediate-frequency circuit to the mixer stage. Even when the intermediate-frequency circuit is not matched to the mixer, this matched-impedance conversion loss is important in the determination of the over-all signal-to-noise ratio of a receiver. This loss is computed for an idealized diode with different operating conditions, for various values of image-frequency impedance, and for different values of radio-frequency circuit losses. Although the chief effect of different image-frequency impedances is a change in the optimum operating conditions and in the required local-oscillator power, there is also an effect on the minimum conversion loss. Very low impedances or very high impedances result in smallest conversion loss. The impedances often encountered at ultra-high frequency (image-frequency impedance approximately the same as signal-frequency impedance) result in an increase in conversion loss which may be between 0 and 3 decibels, depending on the circuit losses."
"Tests for effective characteristic impedance, reflection coefficient, and power factor of coaxial radio-frequency cable connectors are described, and mathematical derivations of formulas given. Results of these tests on a few typical connectors are tabulated."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following indicated admissions and transfers of memberships have been approved by the Admissions Committee. Objections to any of these should reach the Institute office by the date specified herein."
"Lists positions of interest to I.R.E. members. Application in writing should be address to PROCEEDINGS of the I.R.E."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"D-c machines often are employed in ship-propulsion drives where maneuverability and a wide speed range are required. The d-c machine also has the advantage of serving as a source of damping if propeller pulsation should coincide with the natural frequency at some speed. This damping force arises because of the fact that any change in speed of the motor will cause a corresponding change in load current and torque. This torque change acts to oppose the original speed change, thus providing an effective damping force. The necessary equations and circuits are developed for calculating this damping effect and an illustrative calculation is included with actual test values for comparison."
"Cabin supercharging is becoming extremely important as flight ceilings for military aircraft are extended upward. Many different schemes have been worked out for using main-engine power to drive variable-speed blowers at speeds which will maintain the desired air-flow and cabin pressure at various altitudes. Two fundamental problems are 1. Providing a variable-ratio transmission between the engine and the blower. 2. Controlling the blower speed to maintain the required air delivery. In some cases a third problem arises because the point of air delivery is at a considerable distance from the engine, necessitating either a long transmission of power or the use of long air ducts. Requirements for remote supercharger drives of moderate power may be met by means of a variable-voltage electric coupling. By using suitable motor characteristics the air delivery of a blower connected to such an electric coupling can be controlled by a simple regulator designed to vary current in proportion to voltage. Requirements for the electric equipment are developed, and laboratory tests on a nine-horsepower model are presented to demonstrate that the equipment meets the specified performance."
"This investigation was instituted in an attempt to develop methods which would make ferroinductive circuits as susceptible to analysis as circuits with constant parameters. The work has led to the development of an accurate empirical equation for the magnetization curve of a steel. This equation has been applied in predicting the inductance of a ferroinductor at any value of current, and methods have been developed for measuring this inductance, which check the theory closely. The equation for ferroinductance has been generalized into a relation for effective ferroreactance by an assumption, and experimental evidence has been obtained to support the validity of the assumption. Methods also were developed for calculating the effective resistance of an iron-cored reactor. Application then was made of both of these developments in calculating the impedance of circuits containing ferroreactors, and the results were again well supported by experiment. Another application of the theory was made to the ferroresonant circuit, and simple relations for resonant voltage, capacity required, and the value of the critical resistance secured. All were checked satisfactorily by experiment."
"In connection with the design and construction of transmission lines in the mountainous Appalachian region the writers have evolved a method of making mathematically exact sag and tension calculations based on catenary formulas that eliminates the trial and error assumptions involved in a portion of the Martin method. The working formulas used by the writers require only simple arithmetical calculations which can be handled by clerical personnel usually available in the engineering office. The calculations are not laborious, and can be easily checked. The writers' method not only develops the sags, tensions, and conductor lengths for the various final and initial conditions of the design span (basic or ruling span), but also similar data for span lengths other than the ruling span. The procedure outlined is applicable to any cable or wire whose modulus of elasticity and coefficient of expansion are uniform throughout the cross section, such as is the case with copper, copper-coatedsteel, or steel cables. Sag and tension problems for composite cables such as aluminum cables steel reinforced, are usually solved by graphic methods based on stress-strain curves developed from laboratory tests on the particular cable under consideration. The writers' method does, however, develop previously unpublished relationships between sags, tensions, and cable lengths which are applicable not only to copper, copper-coated-steel, and steel cables, but also to problems involving composite cables, which information cannot be secured by graphic methods alone. The text gives the basic catenary formulas, the derivations thereof, and an explanation of the procedure followed in actual sag calculations."
"Industry, in general, has been adopting the electric motor drive and its control to all types of machines. In the central station, where sequential and correlated operation is a necessity, the use of electric-motor-driven auxiliaries also has shown a marked increase. All recent stations have been built with a major portion of their auxiliaries driven by electric motors. The author suggests the use of the station generator bus as the most reliable source of auxiliary-power supply in electric stations of a closely interconnected system similar to that in the Chicago area. Separate auxiliary service units, not exceeding in size the requirements of the largest turbogenerator unit, also are recommended."
"Life tests on a new design of relay were so planned that the methods of statistical quality control could be used to separate assignable causes for variation from random causes for variation during life. The relays were inspected frequently at the beginning of the test and less frequently later. The results of these inspections were plotted in the form of control charts. From a study of points outside control limits, improvements were made in the design, the method of manufacture, and the method of test. From a study of the control limits and the number of points within them, predictions were made as to the useful life to be expected. Simplified methods used in recording and analyzing the data and in establishing trends are described."
"A method is developed for calculating optimum air gap and core size for choke coils whose windings must carry direct current in addition to alternating current. It is employed with data on typical magnetic materials to give curves from which design dimensions can be obtained readily to fulfill specified requirements for inductance, resistance, and d-c burden."
"Most of the earlier studies of eddy-current resistance have been made by those interested primarily in the effect of compromise transpositions on the losses of rotating equipment. Their results have included formulas for the eddy-current resistance for perfect transpositions, but these have gotten into handbooks in difficult form or have been ignored entirely. Such formulas are presented here in more usable form, with more information on their limitations, and further formulas are derived for minimum losses for a number of different cases. Included is a set of curves showing eddy-current resistance as a function of the number of layers and conductor thickness. Formulas also are included that take into account the differing lengths of conductor in successive layers and that approximate the end losses in a spiral coil on account of radial flux."
"For several years there has been an increasing trend toward all-electric drives for steam-station auxiliaries on account of the recognized advantages in flexibility, convenience, low operating cost, and comparable investment cost. Substantial economies in first cost also have been obtained along with further improvements in flexibility through the use of transformers as the sole means of station power supply. Gratifying reliability of performance has been achieved by co-ordinating design, backed by extensive tests, including momentary interruptions of station power supply, and has been incorporated in approximately 500,000 kw of modern plants of the 850-pound 900-degrees-Fahrenheit powdered-fuel-fired unit type. Operating experience has demonstrated the over-all reliability and economy of all-electric drives for station auxiliaries and of the use of transformers as the sole source of station power supply."
"Certain steel-mill loads are fast, cyclic, and of considerable magnitude. Given a set of conditions involving such a load, a relatively small steel mill, speed-controlled generating capacity all connected to a large power-supply system, much of the swings in the steel-mill load will be taken by the large supply system. Of itself, this result may not assume special importance. When transmissions in the large power-supply system, well-loaded under steady-state conditions, are involved, and speed governing of the system is at the remote end of the transmissions, the cyclic loads tend to reappear in the transmissions. These circuits may, according to their finite transmitting abilities and the swing peaks imposed on them, be unable to carry the peaks without undesirable voltage depressions or cause undesirable frequency variations on the system. Generation of power from by-product fuels in a steel mill is generally economical but is dependent on the continuity and quality of the nonstorable fuel as well as on the steaming and generating capacity installed. Relief to a large power-supply system from the cyclic load swings normally carried by that supply system has been made possible by a new static load control and hydraulic servomotor to cause the steel-mill turbine generators to respond to the regulator. The combination has been applied successfully to two 20,000-kw turbine generators, causing one or both to take a base load, a percentage of the variable load, and to modify their total loads according to available steam pressure."
"The general problem is stated and typical solutions indicated. Characteristics of governors and of frequency- and load-control devices are briefly explained, and effects on generator and tie-line loads are summarized. Illustrating the principles enunciated, interconnected systems in southern Ontario and adjacent portions of Quebec totaling 1,650,000-kw generating capacity are described, also operating experience with automatic frequency control, and automatic load control of two ties, one of which is a 45,000-kw frequency-changer set inter-connecting systems of relatively large capacity."
"A laboratory and theoretical study was made to determine the causes and methods of combating an unstable oscillatory voltage condition which has been encountered in aircraft d-c electric systems, using types P-1, P-2, and R-1 generators with carbon-pile voltage regulators. The generator characteristics were found to be such that oscillatory instability would not occur without the presence of a voltage regulator which was out of adjustment and which had inadequate damping. A method is given for determining the amount of damping required for stable operation in terms of the generator field time constant and certain regulator characteristics."
"Increased military production has accelerated the application of high-frequency heating where accurate control of temperature for short intervals is fundamentally important. The heating of metals by induction has been widely applied. The present paper describes the development of a new type of dielectric liquid called Lectronol. Capacitors containing this liquid are particularly well adapted for use in the tank circuit of electronic heaters used in induction heating. The capacitor is water-cooled and is housed in a hermetically sealed completely filled nonmagnetic container so constructed as to provide sufficient flexibility to take care of the liquid expansion due to thermal changes. The capacitor is noteworthy because of the absence of cellulose sheet insulation, satisfactory operation being entirely dependent on the superior insulating properties of the Lectronol. Capacitors containing this liquid are characterized by low dielectric loss and high dielectric strength over the frequency range utilized in power oscillators. The capacity per unit volume is approximately twice that obtained with mineral oil. The electrical characteristics of the capacitor are stable under severe conditions of use."
"Airport-approach and runway-marker light circuits are quite similar to the usual street-lighting circuits, except that the important additional feature of brightness control is required. Standard moving-coil regulators were found to be unsatisfactory for this purpose, and so the development of resonant-circuit constant-current regulators with built-in brightness control was fostered by the Army Air Forces. Four years of service have proved regulators of this type to be entirely satisfactory, and they have been adopted as standard by the Army, Navy, and Civil Aeronautics Administration. Resonant-circuit regulators have no moving parts and operate at high efficiencies and power factors, even at light loads. Detailed performance data, together with a comparison of resonant-circuit and moving-coil regulators, are presented in this paper."
"This paper reports progress in the development of variable-ratio drives and governors for parallel operation of aircraft alternators driven from the main engines. Preliminary tests have been made demonstrating successful parallel operation of such drives under various conditions of acceleration and loading. The general system of operation and results of some of the first tests are described in this paper."
"The electric load in a steel plant may be compared to a public utility feeding many consumers in a congested area. Continuity of service is guaranteed by obtaining power from more than one power supply. Interruptions may be held to a minimum by proper phase and ground-relay protection. Zones may be set up to isolate troubles and confine interruptions to the particular zones in which they occur."
"It is difficult to say what is the most important characteristic of a carbon brush. The property which makes a brush grade the ideal selection for one application may be of secondary importance on another. For heavy duty service it seems preferable that those characteristics which aid or permit the maintenance of a uniform surface film on the commutator should be given first consideration. Particular attention should be given to the ability of the brush to maintin close contact with the commutator or ring surface. In addition to care in the selection of brush grade, equal attention should be given to the initial preparation of the commutator or ring surface, avoidance of high or feather-edge mica, accurate machine adjustment, careful brush installation, maintenance of correct and uniform spring pressure, and periodic use of the canvas wiper. Such routine care costs little but aids greatly in maintaining good brush performance at minimum expense. Finally, at the first indication of unsatisfactory performance, an effort should be made to determine the primary fault and to correct it in time to prevent serious disturbance of operation."
"This is a study of high-voltage underground-cable systems, consisting of the cable line and the terminal equipment at each of its ends. The study undertaken indicates the economic zone of application of cables and attempts to find an economic relationship between the voltage and the block of power transmitted over distances up to 15 miles. Thirty transmission lines have been designed using both the solid and the oil-filled cables. The lines can be considered as either transmission links with a unidirectional power flow or as tie lines between large metropolitan steam-power stations. The prices of underground cable and terminal equipment were obtained from manufacturers, and refer to the 12-month period immediately preceding World War II. The costs of various system parts, as installed on foundations, were obtained from the study of actual construction projects in different parts of the country and reduced to the 12-month period. The system capital cost and its annual cost are analyzed separately. The quantities of major equipment items in each system are given, and costs of major equipment groups, or of major items, are represented on a percentage basis. Such a representation permits the estimating of the cost of an underground line, or of the entire transmission project, when copper prices and the cost of equipment differ from those taken in the study."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"A brief description is given of the mechanical-transients analyzer and its application to the determination of the shaft torques in turbine generators during transient disturbances, such as electric short circuits and synchronizing out of phase. This device employs the principle of the electrical-mechanical analogy with analogous electric circuits to represent a given mechanical system and special electric circuits for producing the desired transient excitation functions. With the analyzer a detailed study has been made of the shaft torques that can occur in turbogenerators with mechanical systems having both one and two modes of vibration. The relative severity of various types of faults has been determined together with the effect of external system or fault resistance and generator loading. Short circuits produce rotor air-gap torques containing damped unidirectional, fundamental electrical frequency, and second-harmonic frequency components. In the practical range of machine design, the fundamental-frequency component has the dominant effect on the resulting transient shaft torques for the more severe types of disturbances. The types of short circuits studied include three-phase, line-to-line, single-line-to-ground, and double-line-to-ground faults from no load and full load and with varying amounts of external resistance. It was found that for short circuits at no load with no external resistance a line-to-line fault results in the most severe shaft torques."
"It is the purpose of this paper to examine the need and design of arc-welding reactors for d-c arc-welding sets. The inductance useful in stabilizing welding arcs is defined, and methods for calculating and measuring this quantity are suggested. Further, criteria for designs which make most effective use of material are established. Finally, a recent development in reactor design is described."
"The general problem of electrical insulation is reviewed in relation to silicone insulating materials. Silicone compounds are described and their chemical and physical characteristics discussed. Thermal stability and moisture resistance of silicone insulation are compared to that of conventional class-A and class-B insulation. Predictions are made as to the field of usefulness of silicones in electrical insulation. Recommendations are made for widespread investigation to evaluate the over-all advantages of this new type of insulation."
"Experience with the application of silicone resins is described, including laboratory tests on materials and coils, as well as laboratory tests on rotating apparatus. Practical problems regarding the use of these materials are discussed and recommendations made for obtaining an adequate high-temperature insulation. Thermal aging tests are reported and recommendations made as to tentative temperature limits for general rating and application purposes."
"The increasing interest in compressed air as an interrupting and operating medium for circuit breakers in central-station and industrial service, together with its gratifying record in service periods extending up to five years, warrants investigation of its application to a-c railway service. Previous developments leading up to present standards of requirement for this service are reviewed, and a description is given of a compressed-air breaker designed for high-speed interruption of short circuits on contact line feeders in single-phase 25-cycle railway service at 12,000 volts to ground. Application of the principle to other railway service is discussed."
"Results are presented of a study of the relation of pH of soil waters to galvanic action between couples of lead, copper, iron, and carbon. Galvanic-cell tests were made using as electrolytes actual soil waters or soil extracts from 31 locations at which trouble had been experienced. The following conclusions apparently can be drawn from this investigation: 1. Galvanic corrosiveness on lead, copper, and iron appears generally more severe for soil waters of low pH than for those of high pH. 2. Indications are that the static potentials of lead and iron are practically constant in soil electrolytes of pH up to approximately ten; as pH is increased above ten, lead becomes more negative and iron more positive. The potential of copper becomes more negative in substantially straight-line relation with increasing pH. Carbon potentials appear to be practically independent of PH of soil water. 3. For electrodes of lead, copper, iron, and carbon in soil waters, the relation of degree of polarization to pH of electrolyte seems to show definite trends."
"The general problem of heating iron or steel strip by induction is analyzed to arrive at equations for power-factor efficiency and density of heating under all conditions. Certain general curves are shown to illustrate the limitations of strip thcikness, frequency, and density of heating."
"This paper is written to present test data confirming the accuracy of the reverse-rotation test for stray-load loss24 in polyphase induction motors. This method is the most convenient yet proposed for direct measurement of stray-load losses in squirrelcage motors, and it is recommended that it be included in the AIEE Test Code for Polyphase Induction Machines.27 Proposals for this revision are made."
"Transients in circuits supplied by controlled rectifiers using gas- or mercury-vapor-filled electron tubes are found analytically by an extended superposition method. Loads containing resistance, inductance, and a counter electromotive force are studied, and results are obtained for both rectification and inversion. Examples are based on the half-wave biphase rectifier, while the appendix contains an analysis of a p-phaserectifier. The assumptions include constant-circuit parameters, a fixed firing angle during transients, continuous load current, and no-leakage reactance in the supply transformer."
"Data covering nine years' oper-ating experience with 91 ultrahigh-speed-reclosing breaker installations mainly on a large interconnected and integrated high-voltage system are presented and analyzed: out of 635 cases of flashover cited, 570 re-closures were successful and 65 cases of re-closure were unsuccessful, a record of 89.8-per-cent successful reclosure. Double-cir-cuit lines show a record of unsuccessful re-closure double the average but 80 per cent of the apparently unsuccessful reclosures resulted in successful reclosure of one cir-cuit. The conclusions drawn are that ultra-rapid reclosure has proved itself a tool of major importance for use in improving high-voltage line reliability; that its use can, and should be, extended to lower-voltage lines, and that further improvements are in sight as a result of recent improvements in circuit-breaker opening and reclosure time."
"Early investigation of the air-blast principle of arc interruption clearly indicated that this principle was based on sound fundamentals and that continued research and development would lead to an economical and practical design. Preliminary studies indicated that the axial-flow interrupter was admirably suited to the high-voltage breakers with their lower current ratings, while the high current of the low-voltage equipments could be handled best by an interrupter comprising a cross-blast principle. Outdoor axial-blast breakers having interrupting ratings as high as 1,500 megavolt-amperes for service up to 138 kv have been in service for the past few years. Circuit-breaker designers and operating engineers have expended many years of diligent effort in the development of high-voltage oil circuit breakers to their present high degree of dependability and performance. Although the development of high-voltage air-blast breakers is of much more recent origin, the rate of progress has been relatively so rapid that the air-blast breaker described in this paper has exhibited performance characteristics so outstanding as to merit careful attention."
"Certain equipment on modern military aircraft requires a-c power with a high standard of quality. Good wave shape, very small voltage variations, fairly close frequency range, freedom from radio-noise interference, and reliability over a wide range of operating conditions are required of the power supply. A review of the authors' experiences in design and development of such power supplies is offered with some suggestions for future explorations."
"The use of automatic oil circuit reclosers on rural distribution lines has re-sulted in improved continuity of service as well as reduced maintenance cost. How-ever, automatic circuit reclosers now in use are limited in application because of their inability to co-ordinate properly with fuses on the load side of the reclosers. An improved oil circuit recloser has been de-signed to incorporate the advantages of minimum time-delay opening on the first and second operations to clear all transient faults on the protected section, and greater time-delay opening on the third and fourth operations to allow the blowing of a sec-tionalizing or transformer fuse to isolate a permanent fault without causing a lockout of the recloser. A description is given of the design, operation, and advantages of this recloser which permits clearing of all transient line faults and isolates permanent faults by properly co-ordinating with sec-tionalizing fuses."
"The destruction of lead sheaths on underground cables by electrolysis usually is caused by the action of direct currents which originate from one or several well-defined sources. Little information is available concerning a-c electrolysis, and since the extent of its destructive action is less widespread than that produced by direct current it is considered generally to be relatively less important in the field of cable-sheath corrosion. This paper discusses two cases of electrolysis in which the lead sheaths on single-conductor power cables were corroded through, causing cable breakdowns; and describes field observations and laboratory tests which show that at first the corrosive action was accelerated greatly by rectified alternating currents which were induced in the sheaths by the load current. A method of protecting the sheaths against such electrolytic corrosion also is described."
"The existence of relatively high electromagnetic forces in circuit breakers when subjected to fault currents of appreciable magnitude has long been recognized. One of the problems in the design of a cir-cuit-breaker operating mechanism is to pro-vide smooth and effective closing perform-ance, even though the breaker be closed against a short circuit and is thereby sub-jected to these high electromagnetic retarding forces during the final portion of the closing stroke. The greater the magnitude of the short-circuit current, the higher these electromagnetic retarding forces become and the more serious the effects of any tendency to ``stall'' or, worse, to reverse momentarily the closing motion of the contacts. This paper describes a solenoid mechanism with novel design features developed to operate a new Magne-Blast circuit breaker of high interrupting rating and capable of closing that breaker against fault currents as high as 80,000 amperes rms."
"It may be concluded, without reservation, that the application of load-center distribution principles as herein described was responsible for an amazing reduction in material investment, principally copper and steel, compared with that which would have been required by power-distribution methods employed only a short time ago. In the planning of this project, the greatest emphasis constantly was placed on conservation of materials. The use of compact, repetitively manufactured metal-clad, load-center unit substations do realize good economy in materials and man-hours, and at the same time incorporate simplicity and safety. Unusual features incorporated in this system, which in themselves are responsible for large savings in material, manhours, or both, include: 1. The application of forced-oil air-pressure cooling to the main incoming service transformers. 2. The use of overhead high-voltage feeder-cable troughs. 3. The use of spaced single-conductor low-voltage feeder design with moderate unit copper cross sections. 4. The use of 265-volt fluorescent lighting in combination with common load-center unit substations for serving power and light. (This feature alone accounts for a saving of five tons of copper and ten tons of steel compared with the most economical method of applying 120-volt fluorescent lighting. The secondary selective system design offers a well-balanced combination of simplicity and service reliability. The negotiation of the entire distribution system as a single unit proved highly beneficial in reducing the time of execution and insuring the best co-ordination between the several component portions."
"The selection of insulating materials to guard against electrolytic corrosion has become increasingly important as the use of electric devices in the tropics has increased. Moisture conditions in the tropics are described, and means for producing such conditions in the laboratory are considered. The visual, corrosion-current, and water-extract conductivity methods for studying electrolytic corrosion are described. Typical results for a number of different materils are given."
"The advent of new high-temperature insulating materials, such as the silicones, gives new freedoms to the motor designer. It is probable, however, that factors other than insulation will limit the desirable motor-temperature rise to values well below the endurance limits of these materials. It is, therefore, desirable to recognize that the size of an induction motor is measured electrically by its breakdown torque, and mechanically by the size of shaft and bearings, the temperature rise being only a secondary factor. Calculations are presented, based on idealized assumptions, which indicate that the optimum temperature rise for continuous rated induction motors is below 80 degrees centigrade, whatever the insulating materials used."
"Serious consideration is being given to large power-system interconnections which could develop short circuits at certain locations in excess of 3,500,000 kva. High-voltage oil-circuit-breaker capabilities for such heavy duty are reviewed in this paper, the fundamental design requirements outlined, and results of high-power laboratory tests presented which demonstrate that interrupting capacity ratings as high as 5,000,000 kva are feasible. Laboratory test methods for demonstrating these extremely high arc rupturing ratings are evaluated. The importance of verifying high-speed reclosing performance with high-power tests is emphasized, and on the basis of data already obtained, standard reclosing time intervals considerably less than 20 cycles are foreseen."
"The arc voltage EB developed by the anode-breaker, together with its early introduction into the circuit following current reversal, constitute the most essential performance criteria. It is shown that a current zero, the first prerequisite for interruption, can be created in the arc-back circuit only by developing a counter current (iB) which neutralizes the arc-back current (1). This helpful concept is developed in a rigorous quantitative manner. The electromotive force for this counter current is the arc drop of the anode breaker (EB). Contrary to general belief, the arc energy (k) developed by the anode breaker does not necessarily decrease as the arc voltage is introduced earlier in the circuit For each arc-voltage characteristic there exists a particular time of introduction, (θe), which gives maximum arc energy. Neither can the point of minimum energy be accepted as the desirable objective due to the relatively high initial recovery voltage (E1) associated with this point. Optimum anode-circuit-breaker performance, in circuits having high rates of current rise, requires establishing the final current zero during the inverse-voltage period (E1 negative) together with arc energies (k) which avoid the peak of the energy characteristic. The modification of these results as affected by the ratio of the reactive ohms (ωL) to the resistance ohms (R) of the circuit is discussed on a quantitative basis. Quantitative variations in the various parameters are presented to study their effect. Certain unique characteristics of anode breakers are explained."
"Insulation-resistance and dielectric-absorption data have been presented which give a comprehensive picture of average and normal spread in insulation characteristics of new large a-c synchronous and induction machines having mica insulation. Dielectric-absorption characteristics have been analyzed. Average curves and normal variations are given. Ratio of insulation resistance at 25 degrees centigrade as measured after ten minutes and after one minute of voltage application has been found to increase from one, for relatively moist windings, to approximately four, for moderately dry windings, and then to remain substantially constant over a wide range in insulation resistivity. Ratio for well-dried insulation is of the same order. Average temperature-insulation resistance characteristics for machines based on data available are given. Temperature-insulation resistance characteristics of well-dried asphalt-bonded mica insulation are given as a function of various times of voltage applications. Indications are that variation of absorptive current with temperature for asphaltic-bonded mica insulation does not even approximate a simple logarithmic function. Considerations involved in the proper selectin of a safe minimum value of insulation resistance are discussed. A linear formula which takes into account effects of speed, kilovolt-ampere rating, and voltage rating, with adequate precision when consideration is given to other variations involved, is suggested for large class B a-c induction and synchronous machines. Work is being continued on the study of variations involved and significance which may be attached to insulation-resistance measurements."
"The routine problems of resistance-coupled amplifier design have been simplified and reduced to a set of graphs and convenient conversion charts. In the first section it is shown that the coupling circuit (Figure 1) can be replaced by a pair of equivalent resistance-capacitance circuits (Figure 3) so that it is easy to calculate an amplifier's phase and amplitude-frequency characteristics. The design of a coupling circuit to give a specified band width and an acceptable loss has been simplified by the construction of curves of constant band width and peak-frequency loss (Figures 6, 7, 8). In the second section a method and charts (Fugures 9, 10) are presented for determining without the use of static characteristic curves a suitable operating point, electrode voltages, and plate or screen resistors for any vacuum tube operated class A. As the method given results in the tube being operated with proportionally reduced electrode voltages, its dynamic constants can be extrapolated from values furnished by the manufacturer. Charts facilitating the extrapolation are given (Figures 9, 11, 12, 13). A simple transconductance meter for measuring the mutual conductance and circuit transconductance (equation 24) of a tube operated with an external plate resistor is described in the final section. The gain of the tube and the equivalent plate-circuit resistance can be calculated easily from these two measurements. The dynamic constants μ and rp can be obtained also with an accuracy sufficient for most practical purposes."
"The heavy expansion brought about on the Central System of the American Gas and Electric Company in response to demands for power during the defense and war periods has produced a requirement for circuit-breaker rupturing duties close to 3,500 megavolt-amperes. In order to test the interrupting performance and reliability of two types of 138-kv 3,500-megavolt-ampere circuit breakers, the first an oil, the second an air-blast design, and also to explore faster reclosing cycles than now offered by the most improved oil circuit breakers, high-capacity field tests were carried out at the Philo Plant of The Ohio Power Company. In these tests, involving 20 interruptions on each breaker, there has been accomplished for the first time successful interruption of a full three-phase short circuit of 3,500 megavolt-amperes with three-cycle interruption and with 13-cycle reclosure. The results of these tests, it is believed, indicate that a goal of 5,000 megavolt-amperes with 12-cycle reclosure definitely is attainable."
"The science of statistics is highly developed and applicable to a variety of engineering subjects. There remains the task of getting statistical methods out of books and into general use. Towards this end examples are given of problem that relate to high-voltage-insulator manufacture and for which statistical treatment seems desirable."
"Surge-comparison methods of testing insulation were investigated with the objective of locating as well as detecting faults. Experience of other investigators was confirmed and limitations of methods and equipment studied. Supplementary methods and equipment were devised to extend the field of usefulness of this basic type of tester, especially to the testing of very large machines with multiple-parallel windings. Apparatus studied included a-c motors from fractional-horsepower single-phase to very large three-phase types; a large variety of d-c armatures; and numerous armature, stator, and magnet coils. This surge-comparison tester has proved to be suitable for use by electrical manufacturers and by service and repair shops, as it can be used for testing most common types of electric windings."
"The magnetic-drag electric tachometer which was developed especially for the measurement of aircraft-engine speed is inherently a more precise measuring device than those instruments which normally have been used as reference standards of speed measurement. This paper describes an electric-tachometer testing system which meets the requirements of high accuracy and is also suitable for large-quantity manufacture of tachometers. The system provides facilities for testing at 22 scale points in a range of speeds from 500 to 4,500 indicated rpm without referring to a standard instrument. The power to drive the tachometers being tested is supplied from tachometer generators which are driven by a d-c motor controlled by a precision tuning fork. The method of operation and the control system are explained."
"The ever-present need for lighter-weight and more compact aircraft electric motors is evident as any reduction in weight or space provides increased fuel, bomb, or pay-load capacity. Reliable 400-cycle motors more compact and approximately 40-per-cent lighter than existing 24-volt d-c motors have been developed recently. Present trends indicate that these motors will be used extensively aboard the airplane of tomorrow. This paper describes some of the 400-cycle motors that have been developed and discusses their requirements with the view of disseminating information so that others may better understand the motors and the performance to be expected from them."
"At the present time there are several remote-indicating systems in common usage in industry. These types include the conventional a-c Selsyn, a-c Magnesyn system, and the d-c Selsyn. The d-c Selsyn embodies two features which present a distinct advantage in aircraft systems. 1. The system does not require an a-c source of power. 2. The system requires only three wires between transmitter and receiver, whereas all other types of systems require at least five wires leading from the transmitter to the receiver. To offset somewhat these advantages, all d-c Selsyn systems now in operation have a very slight natural error which, although not important in some applications, becomes very undesirable in applications where a high degree of accuracy is required. In this paper the author presents a rigorous analysis of a conventional d-c Selsyn remote-indicating system. The first part of the analysis shows that a natural error exists in the system, which has a 60-degree cycle and which reaches a maximum value of 1.1 degress. The error is zero at each 30-degree point and reaches a maximum almost midway between the 30-degree points. The natural error of the Selsyn system arises from the fact that the transmitter resistance is a linear function of the transmitter angle θ This natural error may be overcome by designing a transmitter resistance in a non-linear manner. The equation is developed for the necessary variation of the transmitter resistance with the transmitter angle."
"Retardation with traction motors, either independently or as an adjunct to mechanical braking, has been utilized in various forms on practically all types of electric vehicles from battery trucks to main-line locomotives. In some cases, it is used only to maintain uniform speeds on long grades and in others to make regular service stops. Although the general principles are nearly as old as the electric-traction industry itself, in recent years numerous refinements have greatly extended the usefulness of dynamic braking by affording improved performance, additional safety, and simplification of mechanical-braking systems. This paper discusses the various means by which favorable results have been accomplished, with a minimum amount of additional electric equipment."
"Varnish treatment of electrical equipment is an important step in its manufacture. Varnish coatings protect apparatus from moisture and dirt and maintain the high electrical-insulating level required for insulation. The quality of the varnish film deposited depends upon the condition of the varnish in the processing tanks. Thickness of deposited varnish films varies with viscosity and body. Heavy films interfere with armature-coil sizes and make problems of heat transfer in field coils and magnet coils more difficult. Thin films give inadequate protection from moisture and dirt. Conducting contaminating materials are introduced into the tanks from rehabilitated apparatus and manufacturing atmosphere. These indicate that close control of tank varnish is necessary for consistently high quality of apparatus treated. Methods of control are discussed which include both laboratory tests of the varnish and physical tests which can be concluded at the tank. A system of daily inspection of tanks for proper quality and daily adjustments before use is described. Dielectric properties of the varnish film and the liquid varnish and periodic chemical analysis of samples from each tank reveal the condition of the varnish. A system of portable cold pressure filtering for removing much of the contamination present is described. It should be recognized by the electrical industry that insulating varnishes are complex chemical mixtures, and care should be maintained in their use. It is important that they be under the control and supervision of persons with the proper training and experience. Constant quality control is necessary for satisfactory results."
"Although many fuses are available for aircraft applications, it has become increasingly evident that the trend to large aircraft electric systems necessitates a review of existing fuse devices, particularly with regard to their interrupting ability. Such a survey indicates many applications for an improved interrupting device. A new current-limiting fuse has been designed to meet the requirements. This paper describes the device and presents test data to indicate its suitability."
"With the selection of the 208Y/120-volt three-phase 400-cycle a-c system by the Army Air Forces for large aircraft, there has arisen the need for appropriate switchgear. In order to be applicable to the electric systems of such planes, swichgear must be able to perform its normal and emergency functions under the encountered conditions of temperature, pressure, humidity, vibration, and acceleration. This paper describes a 120-ampere remotely controlled electrically operated air circuit breaker designed for use as a bus sectionalizing, ring tie, or generator breaker on the 400-cycle grounded-neutral system. The interrupting rating of this breaker is 3,800 amperes at all pressures from sea level to 50,000 feet altitude. The closing solenoid and shunt trip coils have been designed to operate over a wide range of ambient temperature and control voltage. Weight and size, being primary considerations in aircraft equipment, have been held to a minimum."
"This paper describes a system of quality control of resistance welding that has been used successfully for the past few years equipment. Standard samples of material identical with production parts are periodically inserted in the welding machine and welded without disturbing the settings and then tested to destruction in a torsion device. The diameter, torque, and angle of twist at failure all are measured and combined into a single figure indicative of weld quality. This number is plotted on control charts, and corrective action is taken whenever the control limits are exceeded. By setting these limits well within allowable values the quality of production parts is assured."
"It has been found that the rapid wear of brushes under high-altitude conditions can be prevented by the treatment of the brushes with a suitable metallic halide. Carbon, electrographitic, and metal-graphite brush grades all respond to such treatments. A great many nondeliquescent metallic iodides, bromides, chlorides, and fluorides have been tested and found to prevent brush dusting on the heavy-duty electric units of aircraft. These treatments also have been applied with considerable success to earthsurface machines operating under severe commutating conditions. A mechanism by which this class of chemical compound may react to maintain a satisfactory low-friction film on a commutator is proposed."
"Electrical-insulation failures were investigated and found to be due to chemical contamination with ionizable materials. Examples of such contamination are certain types of hand creams, soldering fluxes, and germicides in lubricating oils. Contamination mechanisms often involve operations which are otherwise insignificant in manufacturing processes. The effect of these materials on the electrical characteristics of the insulation is reported. The need for close correlation of industrial-hygiene manufacturing processes, insulation design, and quality control is emphasized."
"The new outdoor air switch strikes a new note in simplicity, as it has only three moving parts. All parts are simple and rugged with stresses kept to safe values for the materials employed. Hinge contacts and live parts with relative motion are protected from rain, dust, corrosion, and ice by a housing having smooth contours to minimize corona losses and radio interference. Critical adjustments and alignments have been eliminated. The sole exposed contact, at the break end, utilizes new materials which can withstand severe overcurrents and years of weathering without damage. Because of these features the new switch offers improved ease of operation and maximum reliability under all conditions."
"This paper gives an account of the development, operating principles, and use of a possibly unique instrument that has been and is of considerable value on instrument-gyroscope manufacturing and repair production lines. It is used to indicate gyroscope-rotor speed when the rotor is brought up to 1,000 rpm for bearing adjustment. Then, by the turn of a switch, the instrument indicates the rate of deceleration as the bearing is adjusted, thus permitting accurate adjustment of bearing pressures. A third position of the same selector switch gives tachometer operation up to 15,000 rpm for virbation tests. Excessive vibration is indicated visibly and audibly through another amplifier, independently of the selector-switch position."
"Increasing electric-power requirements for large aircraft have brought about the introduction of a-c power systems. Two major systems have been developed. In the first power is generated at variable frequency and converted to direct current; in the second power is generated at sub-stantially constant frequency, and both a-c and d-c power are used. In both systems selenium rectifiers can be used as converters. Rectifier units developed to supply 28.5-volt regulated d-c power, which include stepdown transformers and voltage-regulating equipment, are described in this paper. Ratings vary from 100 to 800 amperes."
"Resistance-welding machines normally form a very reactive pulsating load on a power system which sometimes produces undesirable line regulation. The regulation can be calculated, and, if it is too high, it can be reduced by operation directly on 2,300 volts or by power-factor-correction means. From a line-regulation point of view, the system of 2,300-volt operation is usually the most satisfactory. The effect of electronic controls on line drop is also discussed."
"This paper contains a demonstration of the existence in practice of relationships between group coincidence factors and number of consumers, and between group coincidence factors and consumers' load factors. Empirical relationships defrom theoretical considerations, formulated in a general manner, and qualified as to the significance of the quantitative values."
"Investigation of several methods for the detection of impulse failures in distribution transformers has strengthened our belief in the inadequacy of the methods described in American Standard C57.2. All of the methods are discussed in detail, and the most hopeful one is comnpared with the present method of analyzing the voltage wave and making the physical observations as outlined in the Standards. Data are presented on transformers utilizing present and proposed methods."
"The ability of a 2,300-4,000-volt distribution system to supply single-phase a-c welders is limited not only by current-carrying capacity, but also by voltage regulation. The voltage limitations are reviewed and methods suggested for increasing the limits by changes in the power system and the customers' installations. Three types of subtransmission connections are described for use when the welding load outgrows the distribution power supply."
"The device described is essentially a frequency meter with a scale proportional to the logarithm of 1/frequency, and a dwell meter suitable for use on inductively loaded contacts in d-c circuits. It has been found useful in several jobs in military aviation, one of which is described in some detail. An appendix gives a simple analysis of the shape of the frequency scale distribution obtained."
"This paper describes a load-control apparatus recently installed on two 20,000-kw turbines at the power plant of the Tennessee Coal Iron and Railroad Company at Fairfield, Ala., to reduce the magnitude of load swings imposed on a tie line by a hot-strip mill in the Tennessee Coal Iron Company Plant. The power plant contains three 20,000-kw turbine-driven generators and is tied in with the Alabama Power Company to furnish the steel-mill load. Previous to the installation of the equipment herein described, the three 20,000-kw turbine generators have carried load under control of their speed governors and the variations in strip-mill load which are about 20,000 kw were imposed upon the Alabama Power Company tie line causing objectionable disturbances on the connecting power system. It was desired to develop a means of imposing all or part of the strip-mill load on the Tennessee Coal Iron and Railroad Company turbine generators to reduce these disturbances. Several methods were considered, and the one selected was based upon a static watt-measuring circuit, the output of which is an Amplidyne generator. The Amplidyne in turn operates the pilot motor of an hydraulic (oil) relay at the turbine to control the steam admission valves."
"The most important properties of thermostatic bimetal strips of uniformly tapered width or thickness or both have been analyzed mathematically, and the findings are described in this paper. A tapered-thickness form is found to be the best practical one from the standpoint of economy of material. Conveniently usable charts are included which are applicable in the form of correction coefficients to the standard formulas for thermostatic deflection and mechanical deflection of strips of uniform thickness and width. The dual-tapered form is especially useful in reducing vibration troubles in slow-acting thermostats, and formulas are given for determining the fundamental frequency of single- or dual-tapered strips of any taper ratio."
"In this paper equations are derived and applied for determining the response time and temperature lag, in general, of a body which exchanges heat with a medium indirectly through a second body. Application is made to a thermometer element mounted in a protecting case, with specific reference to a resistance-type thermometer such as is used for aircraft and marine purposes. The temperature distribution along the stem and the errors resulting when the head of the bulb and medium differ in temperature also are derived."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"This article is the first of five based on a series of lectures which was sponsored by the power and industrial group of the AIEE New York Section during the 1943–44 season. The behavior of currents flowing in the earth, as influenced by the resistivity of the soil, frequency of the current, and size and shape of electrodes, is analyzed here."
"Representation of the engineer in civic and state affairs and promulgation of measures to improve his economic status by means of an overriding association of engineers are suggested by President Powel in this article."
"The indirect lighting by mercury-vapor lamps of a plant 25 acres in area and nearly 60 feet high is of interest to all illumination engineers. How a lighting system was designed which would meet the requirements from an engineering basis and at the same time be practical from a cost consideration is explained by two engineers who were concerned with the lighting of Budd Field."
"Electron tubes first were used in telephone systems chiefly for speech transmission; they now are being used extensively for many other purposes. A few specially developed amplifier tubes and some typical tubes used in the nontransmission part of the telephone plant are described in this article."
"That temperatures and operation times commonly used in soldering copper wire reduce wire diameter, decrease its life, and even totally destroy it, was discovered by the engineers of the Fairchild Camera and Instrument Corporation during an investigation of a single-step hot-tin-strip method of stripping and tinning copper wire."
"In this article a physicist offers his views on how research can promote progress and ameliorate unemployment rather than an engineering analysis of what present methods and machines lack. The developments recommended are not mere revisions of existing techniques but signposts to untried paths."
"A program comprised of many wartime developments with interesting postwar applications has been arranged for the AIEE winter technical meeting to be held in New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945. Headquarters for the meeting will be in the Engineering Societies' Building. Sessions and conferences closely related to the war effort are as follows: electric welding, industrial control, industrial power applications, influence of aircraft environment on electrical design, aircraft electric apparatus and utilization, aircraft electricity, wartime distribution systems, high-frequency cables, and high-frequency dielectric heating."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Because of the growing importance of standards for consumer goods, removal of the present restrictions which limit the work of the American Standards Association to the engineering field was authorized by the ASA board of directors at its annual meeting held in New York, N. Y., December 8, 1944. Such increased scope will necessitate reorganization of the ASA so that it can handle any standard or standardization project which deserves national recognition, whether in the field of engineering, accounting, business practice, or consumer goods."
"A “packaged” power plant, consisting of a 3,500-horsepower turbine, generator, and condenser, is being manufactured by the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company for installation on troopships and cargo vessels. This “package” is complete, even to the lubricating oil system, pumps, and piping, and need only be connected."
"Development of a system of pulse time modulation, applicable to wire and radio transmission, including broadcasting and television sound channels, was disclosed at a meeting of the Institute of Radio Engineers in a paper by E. Labin and E. M. Deloraine. The authors are connected with the Federal Telephone and Radio Laboratories, an associate of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"ELECTRIC distribution losses affect the economy of a system in two ways: (a) by making it necessary to produce, over any period of time, in addition to the energy required by the load, the amount of energy absorbed by the losses during that same period, or “energy losses” (b) by requiring, at the time of the peak, the availability of a generating capacity which exceeds the simultaneous value of total load by the coincident amount of power absorbed by the distribution losses, or “power losses.” These two aspects both should be taken into consideration in planning a new electric system or in expanding an existing system."
"SUBSTITUTION of variables (voltage, current, impedance, and so forth) in order to simplify solution of problems on polyphase networks is a well-established practice. A polyphase network may be regarded as several single-phase networks which are coupled to one another in many places and all of which contain power sources. Simplification of network problems results from the replacement of the original phase networks by an equal number of single-phase substitute networks which are not coupled to one another or are coupled in fewer places or in a simpler manner than the phase networks, and which, preferably, have fewer power sources. In these substitute networks, the substitute currents and voltages exist."
"THE FIRST SECTION of the long-planned Chicago subway was opened to the public October 17, 1943. The section of subway which now is in daily operation extends along State Street and is 4.9 miles in length. This is but the first step in a program which ultimately may comprise as much as 50 miles of subway in the city of Chicago."
"IN the application of fuses, oil circuit reclosers, or any other type of sectionalizing device on a distribution system, a considerable amount of time and effort is usually spent in calculating fault currents at various locations on the system. The purpose of this paper is to describe a graphical method of calculating the fault currents which simplifies the task of making the calculations."
"PROGRESS in flying to ever increasing altitudes has brought with it a host of problems of which none have been more urgent than those involving the distribution of magneto energy to the aircraft spark plug. Highly stressed even under more favorable conditions, conventional cables and connectors have exhibited failures in high-altitude operation whose origin called for prompt study and correction. This paper describes an investigation of these causes using a simulated high-voltage high-temperature high-altitude tester and presents several means by which the life of the ignition system may be appreciably extended."
"GENERALLY little use is found for auxiliary lighting during daytime operation of aircraft, as the daylight is all that is necessary for adequate lighting of the cabin, cockpit, and landing and take-off fields. Artificial light may be required in order to perform successfully the duties of aircraft operation during about 60 per cent of the 24-hour period. Though normal daylight may be effective for more than 50 per cent of the day throughout the year, actually artificial lighting is required at the dawn and dusk periods inasmuch as the normal amount of daylight is not adequate. It is obvious of course that it is highly impractical to provide over-all lighting to duplicate daylight. Therefore, localized artificial lighting is the best approach to the problem. With proper illumination in the cockpit, however, normal operating conditions are carried out equivalent to those of daylight hours. Artificial lighting is definitely needed so that all functions can be accomplished without delay during the hours of darkness."
"D-c machines often are employed in ship-propulsion drives where maneuverability and a wide speed range are required. The d-c machine also has the advantage of serving as a source of damping if propeller pulsation should coincide with the natural frequency at some speed. This damping force arises because of the fact that any change in speed of the motor will cause a corresponding change in load current and torque. This torque change acts to oppose the original speed change, thus providing an effective damping force. The necessary equations and circuits are developed for calculating this damping effect and an illustrative calculation is included with actual test values for comparison."
"Cabin supercharging is becoming extremely important as flight ceilings' for military aircraft are extended upward. Many different schemes have been worked out for using main-engine power to drive variable-speed blowers at speeds which will maintain the desired air-flow and cabin pressure at various altitudes. Two fundamental problems are 1. Providing a variable-ratio transmission between the engine and the blower. 2. Controlling the blower speed to maintain the required air delivery. In some cases a third problem arises because the point of air delivery is at a considerable distance from the engine, necessitating either a long transmission of power or the use of long air ducts. Requirements for remote supercharger drives of moderate power may be met by means of a variable-voltage electric coupling. By using suitable motor characteristics the air delivery of a blower connected to such an electric coupling can be controlled by a simple regulator designed to vary current in proportion to voltage. Requirements for the electric equipment are developed, and laboratory tests on a nine-horsepower model are presented to demonstrate that the' equipment meets the specified performance."
"Advertisement."
"RESEARCH, in the Bell Telephone System, has always been an expanding activity, growing with the scientific knowledge of the times and contributing to that knowledge. Upon it have been based important inventions and developments."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"NOT so many years after photography was introduced to the world, George Eastman revolutionized the infant business by offering to do the developing of the negatives and the printing of the pictures in Rochester. He brought photography to the people with his slogan: “You press the button; we do the rest.”"
"TO heat electric conductors made of metals — iron, brass, aluminum, and so forth — the piece to be heated is surrounded by a coil carrying the high-frequency alternating current. This coil induces the heating currents in the work, and the process is called induction heating. The frequency used depends on the physical properties and dimensions of the piece to be heated."
"Rapid advances in aviation have created a whole series of new problems for electrical engineers and aviation designers. The electrical and aviation industries must work together to develop satisfactory aircraft electric equipment, standardize minimum requirements for such equipment, and educate members of both industries to comply with these standards."
"NOISE induced from power-supply circuits into circuits used for transmission of speech or music is caused by the harmonic-frequency voltages and currents present in the power-system wave shape.1 The interfering effect of a foreign voltage on a telephone circuit depends on its frequency, increasing with frequency up to a certain value and then decreasing. The voltage induced in a telephone circuit by a given voltage or current on a power-supply circuit also depends on the frequency, the mutual relation or coupling being directly proportional to frequency. When the effect of harmonics present on the power circuits is considered, it is necessary to give due weight to both factors. The term “inductive influence” is used in discussing them. The inductive influence of a power-system voltage or current wave shape is measured in terms of “telephone influence factor,”2 abbreviated “TIF”, which factor takes into account the variation of both the interfering effect and coupling with frequency. Figure 1 shows two TIF curves, one designated 1935 and the other tentative 1941.2 The shape of the curve depends, of necessity, on the characteristics of the telephone instruments in use, and the change from the 1935 to the 1941 curve reflects the improvements that have been made in telephone instruments. The 1941 curve is just coming into use now, and the majority of the investigations made in recent years have been based on the 1935 curve."
"The engineering profession will find it hard to rise above its educational source, and there is no magic through which education can rise above its teachers, declares this educator. More emphasis on the humanistic studies, more time devoted to fundamental science, and a basic analysis of the engineering method furnish the framework of the undergraduate course he proposes."
"GROUNDING has become an everyday electrical term and a very common practice in electrical construction and operation. The primary function of most grounding is to increase safety for life and property. Its secondary function is to improve the operation and continuity of service of electric systems. These two functions are often complementary and compatible."
"W. E. Wickenden, president, Case School of Applied Science, Cleveland, Ohio, was nominated for the AIEE presidency for the year 1945–46 by the national nominating committee at its meeting in New York, N. Y., January 23, 1945. Others named on the official ticket of candidates for the Institute offices that will become vacant August 1, 1945, are:"
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"With electronic devices assuming a more important place in the fields of naval communication, navigation, ordnance, gunnery, and tactics, and in the general battle efficiency of the Navy's airplanes and ships, the Bureau of Ships has broadened the scope of its older radio division and renamed it the electronics division. Captain J. B. Dow, who has been responsible for the design, production, and installation of the Navy's electronic equipment for several years, has been appointed director of electronics."
"With the first turbine already installed and in operation, work on the second of three turbines destined for a Mexican hydroelectric power plant is now in process. These turbines will operate with the highest “head” for this type unit in the western hemisphere, according to Ralph Kelly, president of the Baldwin Locomotive Works, the manufacturer. They are part of the Ixtapantongo Development of the Comision Federal de Electricidad, located on the Tilostoc River, about 100 miles southwest of Mexico City, and will furnish power through the Mexican Light and Power Company. Each turbine is to supply 39,000 horsepower under a head of 1,028 feet, and the total additional power generated will take Mexico City off present power rationing which limits citizens and industries to power for only, eight of each 24 hours."
"Preliminary proposals of the Federal Communications Commission for dividing the postwar radio spectrum from 25,000 to 30,000,000 kilocycles among the wo numerous applicants for spectrum space are contained in a report recently issued by the Commission."
"Plans for establishment of a college of aeronautical education and research and endowment of the Glenn L. Martin Aeronautical Research Foundation have been announced by the University of Maryland on receipt of an initial gift of $1,700,000 from The Glenn L. Martin Company for this purpose."
"A resurgence of the planning for future adequate housing for the engineering societies which was suspended by the advent of the war is forecast for the coming year in the annual report of UET, Inc., submitted to the AIEE and the other participating societies by F. Malcolm Farmer, president."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE member! and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part Or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"THE development of the Montreal Terminal of the Canadian National Railways, which was started in 1931 and lay dormant all during the depression years, was revived as an. unemployment relief measure and continued as a wartime measure in 1939. The project consisted of centralizing the four passenger stations, the construction of a new station, and the alteration of existing freight yards and facilities."
"WITH today's centralized control and supervision of power systems, it is essential that the man at the controls knows what is going on at all outlying stations and interconnection points. Telemetering equipment keeps him informed of load changes, transfer of power from one system to another, variations in voltage, and all other values that are necessary for efficient operation."
"SOME years ago a prominent member of a group of engineers, who at that time called themselves “efficiency” engineers, had for a pet slogan the expression “whatever is, is wrong.” For the present purpose any objections to this saying from the standpoint of syntax will be passed by but it has been observed that methods and procedures that for years have been refined in the crucible of practice usually have survived because they do have merit. Nevertheless the field of technology is anything but a quiescent one and it is desirable, therefore, that long existing methods, procedures, and standards be subject to constant scrutiny in the light of new developments."
"A brief description is given of the mechanical-transients analyzer and its application to the determination of the shaft torques in turbine generators during transient disturbances, such as electric short circuits and synchronizing out of phase. This device employs the principle of the electrical-mechanical analogy with analogous electric circuits to represent a given mechanical system and special electric circuits for producing the desired transient excitation functions. With the analyzer a detailed study has been made of the shaft torques that can occur in turbogenerators with mechanical systems having both one and two modes of vibration. The relative severity of various types of faults has been determined together with the effect of external system or fault resistance and generator loading. Short circuits produce rotor air-gap torques containing damped unidirectional, fundamental electrical frequency, and second-harmonic frequency components. In the practical range of machine design, the fundamental-frequency component has the dominant effect on the resulting transient shaft torques for the more severe types of disturbances. The types of short circuits studied include three-phase, line-to-line, single-line-to-ground, and double-line-to-ground faults from no load and full load and with varying amounts, of external resistance. It was found that for short circuits at no load with no external resistance a line-to-line fault results in the most severe shaft torques. For faults with low external resistance (of the order of one per cent per phase), a double-line-to-ground fault produces the highest shaft torques which for mechanical systems of low natural frequency may exceed the torques produced by a line-to-line fault with zero resistance. However, for values of external resistance as high as the machine subtransient reactance, the shaft torques are lower than with zero resistance. The most severe fault torques are produced by line-to-line short circuits from full load with no external impedance. Synchronization at angles greater than 30 degrees can produce transient shaft torques which in some cases are more severe than those resulting from short circuits."
"DIELECTRIC absorption is the name commonly given to the effect which takes place in electrical insulation when it is subjected to a direct potential, with reference particularly to the manner in which the resulting charging current into the insulation decreases with time. The time rate of change and the magnitude of the observed current are indications of the amount of absorbed moisture (among other things) existing in the insulation of large generators, which apparatus affords a practical application of the dielectric absorption phenomenon. A newly wound generator or a generator long idle contains moisture in the insulation which should be removed before full operating voltage is applied to the winding insulation.1 The method of using the dielectric absorption effect to determine the state of dryness of large generators is presented as a new means of measurement and one better adapted to giving more information than methods previously used."
"RAPID opening of circuit breakers on faulted lines has been recognized for many years as one of the most effective ways of improving power-system stability. Rapid opening followed by rapid reclosing has been used more recently and gives further improvement in stability if the fault is transitory. Rapid closing of normally open breakers offers yet another means of improving stability — a means which has never been put into practice, so far as the author is aware, but which promises to have a field of usefulness."
"THE calculation of shaft and frame stresses in turbine generators during short circuits or synchronizing is dependent upon a knowledge of the electrical torque developed at the rotor air gap. This torque generally contains unidirectional, fundamental-frequency, and second-harmonic components, all of which are damped. It is the steady components of torque which are of interest in the calculation of system stability, while all the components are of interest to the turbine generator designer."
"A METHOD of measuring the direct-axis and the quadrature-axis subtransient impedances of a synchronous motor or generator by impressing three-phase voltages on the machine at standstill is described in this paper. With respect to the two methods at present prescribed in the Test Code for Synchronous Machines and elsewhere,1,2,3 the proposed method for measuring the subtransient impedances has the advantages that it does not involve the taking of oscillograms and the consequent uncertainties in their analyses, nor does it require that the rotor of the machine under test be set in certain definite positions. This latter requirement, called for in the single-phase test, is frequently troublesome, particularly if the machine is large. Moreover, as three-phase, rather than single-phase voltages are impressed, the measurements are made under conditions more nearly simulating those of normal operation"
"THE last report on the field investigation of natural lightning on the 132-kv transmission system of the American Gas and Electric Company was presented in a paper by the authors in 1942.1 Since that time the field research work has been continued, although not as extensively as in the past, the major project being centered around lightning conditions at and close to the stations themselves, with a smaller part of the work being done on the line to determine the relative effectiveness of counterpoises and ground rods."
"DURING the past five years, because of wartime restrictions, few additional mercury-arc rectifiers have been installed for railroad use. This period has been notable for intensive development and mass production of rectifiers for electrochemical industries where they have been operated to produce concentrations of current output greatly exceeding those required by railroad loads."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A proposal that $25,000,000 a year be set aside for a peacetime electronic research and development program for the Navy, a statement of the necessity of more thoroughgoing and extensive standardization of component parts, and a suggestion for a radar patent pool to solve the postwar radar problem are the high lights of this article."
"The installation and maintenance of radio, radar, and sonar equipment throughout the United States' fleets, on Marine amphibious vehicles, for naval air units, in permanent land stations, and for the more transitory faraway stations, which move with the fluid perimeters of the batde areas, are engineered from the electronics division of the United States Navy's Bureau of Ships. The installation and maintenance branch of the division in Washington, D. C, under Commander H. E. Bernstein does all the necessary planning and staff work."
"Characteristics of devices for grounding the neutrals of synchronous generators and the conditions under which the various types of devices are used and their effect on associated equipment are discussed in this article, the third in a series of five based on lectures which were sponsored by the power and industrial group of the AIEE New York Section during the 1943–44 season."
"Broadcasting stations employing frequency modulation require circuits from studios to transmitters and between network stations that are capable of transmitting wide frequency bands in order to realize the high-fidelity characteristics of this system. Postwar plans of telephone companies include consideration of such requirements; considerable progress already has been made in building the necessary plant."
"In the solution of electric-circuit problems, little advantage has been taken except in communication work of the help that may be obtained by the application of Thevenin's theorem. Statements and proof of the theorem and examples of its use are given in this article."
"TO PREDICT the future of a new science is much like predicting the future of a new-born child. The conception date is usually a matter of record and the appearance of the “first working model” is an events From then on, to carry the analogy farther, the thing develops and the parents or the inventer continually wonder what it will be when it grows up. During the first few years it is the most marvelous thing in the world — later, when it reaches the adolescent period, there sometimes are doubts. Usually in the end, if it has been handled properly, it reaches maturity, finds its rightful place in the world, and becomes a useful member of society. Its rate of development and the soundness of its growth depend on many things. A too rapid growth may produce “soft wood” that will not weather the storm. By expecting too much of it, or glamorizing it, one may spoil the whole thing."
"The AIEE 1945 winter technical meeting was held in New York, N. Y., January 22–26, as planned, but in compliance with the recent wartime ban on conventions the North Eastern District meeting scheduled to be held in Buffalo, N. Y., April 25–26, and the summer technical meeting scheduled for Detroit, Mich., June 25–29, have been canceled. As in previous national and District technical meetings held since Pearl Harbor, primary attention at the winter meeting was devoted to war problems."
"Three regular technical sessions and one conference session on wartime practices on distribution systems and their effect on system operation and future designs were sponsored at the winter meeting by the committee on power transmission and distribution."
"Following their usual practice, many of the AIEE committees and subcommittees held meetings in New York, N. Y., during the 1945 winter technical meeting. Actions of interest to the membership taken at some of these meetings are oudined in the following paragraphs which have been prepared from reports submitted by the committee chairmen. Other committee meetings are reported separately."
"In view of the general recognition of the need for preferred voltage ratings for aircraft d-c electric apparatus which will be acceptable to manufacturers and users as a basis for voltage standards for aircraft systems and equipment a “Preliminary Standard for Aircraft D-C Apparatus Voltage Ratings” was recommended for one year's trial use by the air transportation committee on January 24. J. D. Miner, Jr. (M '42) of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, Lima, Ohio, was chairman of the subcommittee preparing the Standard."
"A description of the evolution and performance of a “noiseless” streetcar was the feature of a talk on modern developments in city transit equipment which was presented before a recent meeting of the AIEE Michigan Section by S. B. Cooper, transportation application engineer, Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, East Pittsburgh; Pa."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The National Inventors Council recently released a list of inventive problems for which the United States Navy Department is seeking solutions."
"A joint dinner meeting of Tau Beta Pi and Eta Kappa Nu, honorary engineering fraternities, was held January 22, 1945, during the AIEE winter technical meeting in New York, N. Y. Vladimir Karapetoff (F'12) was guest of honor and delivered an address on “Fundamental Concepts of Relativity.” He was introduced by Ernst Weber (F'34) professor and head of the graduate electrical-engineering department, Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Brooklyn, N. Y., who outlined the high lights in the speaker's career. Professor Karapetoff became professor emeritus of electrical engineering of Cornell University in 1939, after 35 years at the university and was engaged in activities related to the war when he was afflicted by failing eyesight, culminating in almost total blindness in 1943."
"A committee of eight industrial executives, with C. E. Wilson, president, the General Electric Company, as chairman, has been appointed by the Secretary of Commerce to advise the Department of Commerce and the American Standards Association on future plans for standards work. Also serving on the committee are F. M. Feiker (F'42) dean of engineering, George Washington University, and F. B. Jewett (F'12) president, the National Academy of Sciences."
"A new American Standard for sound level meters, superseding a tentative Standard originally issued in 1936, has been approved by the American Standards Association. These meters are used for measuring the intensities of noise and other sounds in order to evaluate their relative effect on the ear."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"It is the purpose of this paper to examine the need and design of arc-welding reactors for d-c arc-welding sets. The inductance useful in stabilizing welding arcs is defined, and methods for calculating and measuring this quantity are suggested. Further, criteria for designs which make most effective use of material are established. Finally, a recent development in reactor design is described."
"The general problem of electrical insulation is reviewed in relation to silicone insulating materials. Silicone compounds are described and their chemical and physical characteristics discussed. Thermal stability and moisture resistance of silicone insulation are compared to that of conventional class-A and class-B insulation. Predictions are made as to the field of usefulness of silicones in electrical insulation. Recommendations are made for widespread investigation to evaluate the over-all advantages of this new type of insulation."
"Experience with the application of silicone resins is described, including laboratory tests on materials and coils, as well as laboratory tests on rotating apparatus. Practical problems regarding the use of these materials are discussed and recommendations made for obtaining an adequate high-temperature insulation. Thermal aging tests are reported and recommendations made as to tentative temperature limits for general rating and application purposes."
"SPEED CONTROL of wound-rotor induction motors where the torque is in the same direction as the mechanical rotation may be accomplished with moderate success merely by the use of adjustable resistance in the secondary or rotor circuit, provided the torque being developed by the motor is appreciable. Where the torque must be contrary to the rotation, for example, crane-hoist lowering, the problem of control at less than synchronous speed becomes much more complex, and special consideration in control design is required. Such refined subsynchronous speed control can be attained, provided the torque is in excess of possibly 35 per cent of full load, by exciting the motor stator with direct current and adjusting rotor resistance in the ordinary way. For those applications where the countertorque is less than 50 per cent normal, or absent altogether, satisfactory speed control is provided by application of adjustable unbalanced polyphase voltage to the motor primary. Neither of these systems is entirely satisfactory for the complete speed-torque range, since the former does not provide low torque at high speeds and the latter does not provide rated torque at slow speeds. Both require considerably greater input current than the motor would require to develop an equivalent countertorque with balanced polyphase voltage applied. It is possible, of course, to control the countertorque in the orthodox manner by an adjustable rotor resistor. This system has been used extensively, but is considered satisfactory only for certain applications involving predetermined loads."
"IN the past four years, the many constructional and operational advantages of sealed ignitron rectifiers have greatly aided the war effort by saving critical materials and manufacturing facilities. Two-wire sealed ignitron rectifiers1 have met industry's urgent need for efficient d-c power and have found wide application in the range of 75- to 1,000-kw capacity, at voltages ranging between 250 and 600 volts direct current for general industrial, railway, mining, and-electrochemical service."
"PREVIOUS papers of this series gave data on a lightning investigation carried on co-operatively by a number of power companies and the General Electric Company, and the seventh paper of the series1 brought the data up to and including 1938. Additional papers2,3 covered special angles of the investigation."
"THE rapid growth of a-c arc welding in the last ten years has resulted in a-c welding becoming a large fraction of all arc welding rather than a negligible proportion. As power loads due to a-c arc welding become larger, questions arise in the minds of users and power-supply authorities about power requirements of a-c welders and the effect of a-c welders on power circuits. In some instances arc welding has been confused with resistance welding, although the two are entirely different from the standpoint of power supply. This paper presents data useful for determining the effects of a-c arc-welding loads on electric power circuits."
"THE Dodge Chicago plant was built to manufacture airplane engines for superbombers and the entire project was designed exclusively for that one purpose. The plan called for much more than the usual assembly of parts, as it was the intent that this plant make practically everything from castings on through to the finished motor. Accordingly, there are aluminum and magnesium foundries, forge, heat-treat, and machine shops as well as assembly and testing buildings. There are 19 principal buildings with their particular use broadly indicated by their names. The site covers over a square mile."
"THE revision of American Standard C50, “Rotating Electrical Machinery,” resulted in various suggestions for changing the method of measuring the temperature rise of motors and for establishing temperature-rise limits to be used with these methods. A review of the temperature tests taken in the past indicated that they are of little value for comparing the various methods. Few tests included temperature measurements by more than one method, and none of them had enough embedded detectors to measure accurately the hot-spot temperature. In order to obtain accurate data, the authors were asked to make and report the results of temperature tests on integral-horsepower motors. It was believed that the data thus obtained would be valuable to the standardizing committees of the AIEE, the American Standards Association, and the National Electrical Manufacturers' Association, as well as to motor users."
"THE revision of American Standard C50, “Rotating Electrical Machinery,” resulted in various suggestions for changing the method of measuring the temperature rise of motors and for establishing temperature-rise limits to be used with these methods. A review of the temperature tests taken in the past indicated that they are of little value for comparing the various methods. Few tests included temperature measurements by more than one method, and none of them had enough embedded detectors to measure accurately the hot-spot temperature. In order to obtain accurate data the authors were asked to make temperature tests on fractional-horsepower motors and to report the results. It was believed that the data thus obtained would be valuable to the standardizing committees of the AIEE, the American Standards Association, and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association, as well as to motor users."
"BUSHING current transformers are ideal for many reasons. They are compact, convenient, economical, and, from the operator's standpoint, they eliminate a separate piece of equipment. But they have one inherent limitation, namely, an accuracy generally not satisfactory for metering. Many efforts therefore have been made in the past to overcome this inherent limitation of the conventional design, with considerable success jn the laboratory but limited success in practice."
"The increasing interest in compressed air as an interrupting and operating medium for circuit breakers in central-station and industrial service, together with its gratifying record in service periods extending up to five years, warrants investigation of its application to a-c railway service. Previous developments leading up to present standards of requirement for this service are reviewed, and a description is given of a compressed-air breaker designed for highspeed interruption of short circuits on contact line feeders in single-phase 25-cycle railway service at 12,000 volts to ground. Application of the principle to other railway service is discussed."
"CURRENTS in excess of normal, or fault currents, flow in rectifier circuits under conditions of arc-back or d-c short circuit. In normal service, faults are imposed on rectifiers by both the arc-backs that occur in the rectifier itself and the short circuits that occur in the external d-c system. Rectifier units must, therefore, include suitable protective switchgear to limit the magnitude and duration of the fault currents in order to 1. Prevent damage to the rectifier, transformer, and other parts. 2. Limit the disturbance on the a-c and d-c systems."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"There is no substitute for continued peacetime research and development and evaluation, if our Nation is to avoid disastrous wars in the future, contends this author, and he quotes various military and naval authorities who support his conclusions."
"In recognition of his “outstanding inventions and developments in the radio, transportation, marine, and power fields,” Ernst F. W. Alexanderson was awarded the AIEE Edison Medal for 1944. The presentation was made at a joint meeting of AIEE and the Institute of Radio Engineers during the 1945 AIEE winter technical meeting."
"Doctor Alexanderson during all the time I have known him has always had some difficult problem to wrestle with, and fortunately he has been a very good wrestler. It was back in 1905 while testing a new kind of alternator that I first met him, and since that time his name has always been before me in connection with one new development or another."
"I deeply appreciate the honor you have bestowed upon me in the award of the Edison Medal. However, in accepting it, I feel I do so in full recognition of the honor it symbolizes to the General Electric Company and the many engineers closely associated with me in my many years of work for this company."
"The value of the mass spectrometer as an instrument for the quantitative and qualitative measurement of the components of gaseous mixtures is enhanced by a recording system which combines speed of response, accuracy, and extensive range. These have been attained by incorporating an automatic speed-up between peaks, an amplifier for currents as low as 10−14 ampere, an automatic range changer for off-scale peaks, and a nonlinear scale to overcome the limitations of a ten-inch chart."
"Grounding of transmission and distribution systems is considered in this article, the fourth of five based on a series of lectures on the subject which was sponsored by the power and industrial group of the AIEE New York Section during the 1943–44 season. Purposes and methods of grounding at substations, along transmission lines, and in a-c open-wire overhead distribution systems are discussed."
"If electronic progress follows the pattern set after World War I, the next decade will see the expansion of techniques nurtured by military need: frequency modulation, television, facsimile, and radar. Economic considerations, however, probably will set the rate and limit of their expansion."
"Nineteen technical papers now are available for discussion by mail as the Institute places in effect plans that have been devised to continue the preparation, discussion, and publication of papers while complying with wartime restrictions on meetings (EE, Mar '43, p 110)."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The National Bureau of Standards broadcast service, which comprises the broadcasting of standard frequencies and standard time intervals from the Bureau's radio station WWV near Washington, D. C., has been slightly extended by broadcasting 15 megacycles at night as well as in the daytime."
"A new method of laying communication wire based on a specially designed coil and dispenser enables the Signal Corps to lay its combat wires by airplane, by ground vehicles, or by bazookas and rifle grenades without the use of reels."
"With extension of telephone service seriously hampered by shortages of central-office equipment, outside lines, and telephone instruments, one of the most consistent expansions occurred near military establishments, according to the annual report of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company for 1944. During the year special attention was given to service men returning from overseas, and particular emphasis was placed on meeting the needs of wounded and convalescent patients in Army and Navy hospitals. At many hospitals, portable bedside service is provided, and attended public telephone centers are equipped with such special features as booths large enough to accommodate a wheel chair or bed, amplifying equipment for the hard-of-hearing, and chest transmitters and head receivers for patients unable to hold the usual type of telephone."
"With the printing of its constitution, the Schenectady Engineering Council completes a series of articles in the Schenectady Engineering Council Bulletin outlining the history of the growth of the council and describing its aims and activities. The council is a continuation of the old co-ordinating committee of AIEE, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Welding Society, and the New York State Society of Professional Engineers, which has functioned since 1936. Because its objectives and membership have been broadened to include the interests of the community, as well as all technical and scientific persons, it has been felt important to publish this series in order to acquaint the societies, their members, and the community in general with the new organization."
"Four prizes amounting to $1,000 for resistance welding technical papers are being offered by the Resistance Welder Manufacturers Association, Philadelphia, Pa."
"A Perpetual Calendar which not only will divide the year into precisely 52 weeks but will enable one to compute all future dates without a printed calendar, has been devised by Lieutenant Willard E. Edwards, United States Naval Reserve, and has reached the Congress of the United States as a Concurrent Resolution requesting the President to urge its adoption at the peace conference. The proposed method would correct the irregularities of the present calendar by setting aside the first day of the year as a day apart from any week or month and thus permitting division of the remaining 364 days into exactly 52 weeks. The result is that the half-years then become equal, the quarters become equal, and the months faltinto the regular rhythmical pattern of 30, 30, 31. The first day of the year, New Year's Day, would therefore be celebrated as a day in itself between December 31 and the second day of the year, Monday, January 1."
"An initial grant of $15,000 has been made to the Illinois Institute of Technology by the Ohmite Manufacturing Company for the establishment of a laboratory for precision measurement of electrical and magnetic quantities, according to Henry T. Heald, president of the university."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication herein no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"FOR the investigation of relays and similar electromagnetic apparatus, data giving the variation of current and flux as well as the motion of the armature during the operating cycle are of great value. The rapid-record oscillograph1 has been used extensively for current measurements and, where a moderate accuracy is sufficient, is very satisfactory. Data on the flux also may be obtained by graphical integration of oscillographic data, but such a process is laborious and, unless great care is taken, is of doubtful accuracy. The development of a shadow-graph attachment2 for the oscillograph provided a means of measuring armature motion at the same time and with the same order of accuracy as the current measurements."
"Results are presented of a study of the relation of pH of soil waters to galvanic action between couples of lead, copper, iron, and carbon. Galvanic-cell tests were made using as electrolytes actual soil waters or soil extracts from 31 locations at which trouble had been experienced. The following conclusions apparently can be drawn from this investigation: 1. Galvanic corrosiveness on lead, copper, and iron appears generally more severe for soil waters of low pH than for those of high pH. 2. Indications are that the static potentials of lead and iron are practically constant in soil electrolytes of pH up to approximately ten; as pH is increased above ten, lead becomes more negative and iron more positive. The potential of copper becomes more negative in substantially straight-line relation with increasing pH. Carbon potentials appear to be practically independent of pH of soil waters. 3. For electrodes of lead, copper, iron, and carbon in soil waters, the relation of degree of polarization to pH of electrolyte seems to show definite trends."
"POWER-system designers and operating engineers quite properly are constantly endeavoring to improve the quality of their services. Increases in connected capacity inevitably accentuate the demand for reducing both the frequency and the duration of interruptions in the flow of power. This is particularly true in the case of high-voltage lines which form the “backbone” of all large systems. Circuit-breaker-design engineers welcome their portion of this problem in the fulfillment of the requirement for circuit breakers having higher interrupting ratings, shorter interrupting times, and faster reclosing times. An outstanding example of this trend is found in the recent development and field testing of a 138-kv oil circuit breaker which had the following new requirements: 1. An interrupting rating of 3,500 mega-volt-amperes. 2. An interrupting time of three cycles. 3. A reclosing time of less than 20 cycles."
"THERE has been an increasing trend toward measuring insulation resistance of high-voltage machines and cables at or above their rated voltage by the use of direct current. The advantage of high voltage lies in its ability to detect leakage paths which do not occur at lower voltages.1 D-c tests are advantageous because of the elimination of capacitance-current effects. Since the resistances measured are usually quite high — of the order of megohms — if high-voltage alternating current is used to test insulation, even small load capacitances offer impedances low enough to mask the insulation-resistance effect."
"THE STRENGTH of the insulation in transformers to resist various types of voltage stress is very important. The service and life of the transformer is partially dependent on the insulation strength, and in recognition of this fact standards for insulation strength long have been established. In the course of time improvements have taken place in design, new applications have been created, and more has been learned about the nature of stresses which arise in service. Service conditions, too, probably will change in the future, which will require changes in insulation requirements. Therefore it is natural that gradual changes in the standards, and additions to them, have taken place, with the result that sometimes they are not entirely consistent. It is desired in this paper to point out some inconsistencies and propose certain changes in the standards which might be given consideration."
"STUDIES of the causes and mechanism of the failure of impregnated-paper insulation are commonly obscured by the burning due to the final complete breakdown. In a number of years of study of the more accessible properties of impregnated paper and their relation to stability and breakdown, constant attention has been given to the restriction of this burning and a nearer view of the beginnings of failure. Simple fuses and even rapid circuit breakers in the primary circuit of the testing transformer are of no avail. Some improvement is obtained by the use of a thyratron in the grounded lead of the sample with suitable connection to a rapid circuit breaker in the primary. But by far the best results, and indeed very complete success, have been reached by a method for detecting the first occurrence of gaseous ionization within the test specimen. This method is a development of the pioneer work of Paine1 and the subsequent applications of Arman and Starr and of Whitehead and Shaw,2 using resonance methods for following the oscillations which arise in the ionization of gas spaces in the insulation wall. New features which have been added are increased sensitivity, improved balancing of the Schering bridge for the frequency of maximum oscillations, the use of greater amplification, and a sensitive recording instrument for registering the first occurrence of internal ionization. The complete setup, as described in this paper, is called the “ionization recorder.” With this instrument it is possible to detect the beginnings of failure in a completely impregnated specimen initially free of gas spaces or voids, often to within one layer of the impregnated structure, and also to follow its growth, with interruption at any desired stage on the way to complete breakdown. So far, the instrument has been applied only to the study of the influence of paper density on dielectric strength and stability, and the comparative behavior of two types of paper and two types of oil. From the results it will be seen that a very intimate picture of breakdown and its causes is presented."
"THE extent to which arc welding has contributed to the shipbuilding program is well known. The consequent expansion of welding in shipyards resulted in various problems: the training of operators, production of the materials used, and by no means least, the development of satisfactory power-distribution systems. It is the intent of this paper to discuss briefly the general principles of power distribution for arc welding and to illustrate the application of these principles in the provision of an adequate, flexible, and economical distribution system in a typical shipyard. Although many conditions in shipbuilding are peculiar to the industry, it is believed that similar reasoning can be applied to any metal-fabricating plant making use of arc welding on a like scale."
"The general problem of heating iron or steel strip by induction is analyzed to arrive at equations for power-factor efficiency and density of heating under all conditions. Certain general curves are shown to illustrate the limitations of strip thickness, frequency, and density of heating."
"THIS paper comprises solution of a very general problem in the mathematical theory of heat; application of it to effect formulas for the temperature distribution T, the maximum temperature Tm, and the average temperature Ta in transformer cores; and indication of its use with reference to other electric apparatus of rectangular cross section and of such general shape that the temperature distribution is essentially two dimensional. As theory indicates and experiment confirms that this condition is often fulfilled in practice, these formulas ought to be of considerable interest to designers of such equipment. For, commonly, the maximum electric loading of an electric device is determined by the permissible maximum or hot-spot temperature in it. Hence knowledge of this maximum temperature and of the temperature distribution in general is desired by the designer faced with making up new designs, improving operating performance of existing designs, or deciding upon maximum, yet safe, overload limits for apparatus already in service."
"This paper is written to present test data confirming the accuracy of the reverse-rotation test for stray-load loss24 in polyphase induction motors. This method is the most convenient yet proposed for direct measurement of stray-load losses in squirrel-cage motors, and it is recommended that it be included in the AIEE Test Code for Polyphase Induction Machines.27 Proposals for this revision are made."
"THE devices required for controlling electric equipment on airplanes include pressure switches, thermostats, control relays, contactors, switching mechanisms, and various combinations of these devices. These controls must operate correctly under the extremely severe conditions encountered on airplanes and, at tie same time, must be smaller, lighter, and more reliable than similar devices produced for other applications."
"IN a companion paper by Rutemiller and Morton1 the electrical control of an automatic machine for milling ship propellers up to 24 feet in diameter is described. The outstanding features of this machine, which is illustrated in Figure 1, are the speed and accuracy with which it can generate the desired blade contours in conformity with scale models. These features permit enormous savings in time over previous methods of propeller machining. This superior performance is made possible largely by the use of two tracer-controlled regulators to control the positioning of milling cutters which machine both faces of the blades simultaneously. It is the purpose of this paper to describe the design features and performance characteristics of the regulators and to indicate by means of a typical stability calculation in an appendix some of the theoretical considerations involved in their development. Although the regulating system described was designed specifically for the propeller milling machine, it may be used, with some modifications, in other machine-tool applications, as well as in other fields."
"THE ship screw propeller, introduced a little over a century ago, is now used almost universally.1 Large high-speed passenger and naval vessels of the present day use propellers as large as 22 feet in diameter. These screws must transmit very large amounts of power which causes them to erode and pit rapidly. Erosion and cavitation can be minimized and the efficiency of power transmission increased by the use of smooth accurately finished blades."
"Transients in circuits supplied by controlled rectifiers using gas or mercury-vapor-filled electron tubes are found analytically by an extended superposition method. Loads containing resistance, inductance, and a counter electromotive force are studied, and results are obtained for both rectification and inversion. Examples are based on the half-wave biphase rectifier, while the appendix contains an analysis of a p-phase rectifier. The assumptions include constant-circuit parameters, a fixed firing angle during transients, continuous load current, and no-leakage reactance in the supply transformer."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The requirements for combat communication equipment, some of the problems in its development and production, and the testing and observation of it in actual operation in the field are recounted in this article. Wire, switchboards, radio equipment, types of control, and carrier systems are discussed."
"THE JOINT COMMITTEE on Steam Turbine Generators was established by the board of directors of AIEE and council of American Society of Mechanical Engineers to prepare preferred standard ratings and characteristics of steam turbine generators."
"This first of a series of articles on statistical methods in quality control, prepared by the AIEE subcommittee on educational activities and sponsored by the AIEE subcommittee on statistical methods, discusses the use of frequency distribution in the regulation and control of variability of quality and the conclusions that may be drawn from it."
"A new network calculator with two independent master instrument and control desks affords means of conserving time of operation and obtaining greater accuracy for large complex systems."
"The hazards of fire and explosion are ever present in many industrial processes, awaiting only a spark to bring disaster — and static electricity can and often does provide the spark. The limitations of grounding as a universal remedy and the need for expert analysis of the problem are emphasized in this article, which is the last of five based on a series of lectures on the subject which was sponsored by the power and industrial group of the AIEE New York Section during the 1943–44 season."
"Members of the AIEE New York Section had the unusual opportunity of hearing the annual address of Charles Alfred Powel, president, AIEE, in the auditorium of the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., on April 10. This address is normally delivered at the summer technical meeting. Mr. Powel's talk will be published in an early issue of Electrical Engineering. George B. Hoadley, chairman, New York section, Institute of Radio Engineers, delivered an address on microwave radio-communication."
"Three technical groups, namely, the electronics, industrial electrical practices and problems, and the personal development of the engineer, have been formed by the AIEE Kansas City Section. The electronics group is headed by C. C. Yates (M '42) of the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company. The first meeting already has been held, and the plan is to meet every month for active discussion. The industrial-practices group chairman is N. A. Kieb (M '43) of Pratt and Whitney Aircraft Corporation. This group also plans to have discussions and to use as a text the recent AIEE publication entitled “Electric Power Distribution for Industrial Plants.” B. J. George (M'43) of the Kansas City Power and Light Company heads the personal development group. Mr. George intends to raise for discussion the questions of ethics, the ability of an engineer to speak for himself, the professional registration of engineers, and other allied matters."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The National Patent Planning Commission's recommendations (EE, Sept '43, pp 423–4) are carried out in three new bills on patents recently introduced in Congress by Representative F. W. Boykin, chairman of the House committee on patents. The major proposal, HR 2632, would require the recording of agreements relating to patents. Another bill, HR 2630, would provide for the public registration of patents available for licensing, and HR 2631 proposes that a patent shall terminate not more than 20 years after an application has been filed but keeping the term of a patent at 17 years."
"Using for the first time in combat a trick they practiced diligently in the Rocky Mountains, engineers of the tenth “Mountaineer” division recently built a 1,500-foot cable tramway for evacuation of the wounded from the Fifth Army front in Italy. The tram, which carries supplies on the up trip, reduced the average time it takes to evacuate a casualty, from between 3 and 5/2 hours, to five minutes. The tramway is 450 feet higher on the ridge than it is at its base. Construction of the tram required only nine hours. Suspended from half-inch wire cable supported by two A frames built to sustain tenton stress and powered by a gasoline engine, the lift will bear 350 pounds. It is pulled by quarter-inch wire cable. Italian soldiers pioneered in cable tramways during the World War in fighting in the Alps Mountains, where they assembled 1,200 miles of them. Engineers of the Tenth Division studied their methods while in training and built several tramways near Camp Hale, Colo."
"Station CB114, recently scheduled to go into operation, will be the first long-wave broadcast station to reach cities and towns throughout the 2,600-mile length of Chile, according to the Radio Corporation of America international division, whose Chilean company designed and built the station. CB114 was designed and built by Corporation de Radio de Chile, manufacturing subsidiary of RCA in Santiago. It is now owned and will be operated by the Corporation Chilena de Broadcasting, headed by Adriano Iz Reyes, station operator in Vina del Mar, Chile."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers axe invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication herein no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"MANY utility engineers interested in increasing the applications of power-line carrier on their systems are confronted today with the difficult problem of finding space for additional channels in an already crowded carrier spectrum. This is a problem, not only for large utilities which have extensive carrier systems of their own, but also for smaller companies interconnected into large groups in which the total number of carrier installations is large."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to explain the action of a particular type of Amplidyne generator in terms of its relationship to the turret performance and to attempt to separate its characteristics from those of the turret."
"Data covering nine years' operating experience with 91 ultrahigh-speed-reclosing breaker installations mainly on a large interconnected and integrated high-voltage system are presented and analyzed: out of 635 cases of flashover cited, 570 reclosures were successful and 65 cases of reclosure were unsuccessful, a record of 89.8-per-cent successful reclosure. Double-circuit lines show a record of unsuccessful reclosure double the average but 80 per cent of the apparently unsuccessful reclosures resulted in successful reclosure of one circuit. The conclusions drawn are that ultra-rapid reclosure has proved itself a tool of major importance for use in improving high-voltage line reliability; that its use can, and should be, extended to lower-voltage lines, and that further improvements are in sight as a result of recent improvements in circuit-breaker opening and reclosure time."
"Early investigation of the air-blast principle of arc interruption clearly indicated that this principle was based on sound fundamentals and that continued research and development would lead to an economical and practical design. Preliminary studies indicated that the axial-flow interrupter was admirably suited to the high-voltage breakers with their lower current ratings, while the high current of the low-voltage equipments could be handled best by an interrupter comprising a cross-blast principle. Outdoor axial-blast breakers' having interrupting ratings as high as 1,500 megavolt-amperes for service up to 138 kv have been in service for the past few years. Circuit-breaker designers and operating engineers have expended many years of diligent effort in the development of high-voltage oil circuit breakers to their present high degree of dependability and performance. Although the development of high-voltage air-blast breakers is of much more recent origin, the rate of progress has been relatively so rapid that the air-blast breaker described in this paper has exhibited performance characteristics so outstanding as to merit careful attention."
"Certain equipment on modern military aircraft requires a-c power with a high standard of quality. Good wave shape, very small voltage variations, fairly close frequency range, freedom from radio-noise interference, and reliability over a wide range of operating conditions are required of the power supply. A review of the authors' experiences in design and development of such power supplies is offered with some suggestions for future explorations."
"IN DEVELOPMENT work leading to new and improved designs of equipment involving arc interruption the success of the work is to a large extent influenced by the quality of the instruments used for measurement. The arc-interruption problem is one that has been in existence since the first electric installation. Nevertheless, progress continually is being made in developing smaller and more efficient devices for stopping the flow of electric current. One of the most promising ways of furthering this progress lies in the development of new methods of measurement."
"THE PRACTICE of using a single power-line carrier channel to perform several different functions is becoming increasingly common. This practice is encouraged by the savings in equipment and in carrier-channel space that can be effected when a single carrier transmitter and receiver are used jointly by some combination of relaying, telemetering, communication, load control, and supervisory-control equipment. The recent introduction of a wide line of individual rack-mounted carrier components1 makes it possible to select exactly the apparatus necessary for the combination of functions to be performed and further encourages the use of a single carrier assembly for several co-ordinated functions."
"A POWER-LINE carrier channelas the link between the transmitter and receiver of a carrier system, determines, by its losses, the power requirements of the transmitter and the sensitivity of the receiver."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to present a method of calculating the effect of altitude on the temperature rise of various designs of aircraft transformers which are required to operate at extremely high altitudes."
"THE BASIC PRINCIPLE of differential protection of electric equipment consists of measuring the sum of the currents at the various terminals of the generator, transformer, or bus. If the vector sum of these currents is substantially zero, there is no fault; if the vector sum is not zero, a fault condition is indicated."
"ELECTRONIC RECTIFIERS with controlled point of ignition are now used widely in various industrial-control and power-conversion systems. Although the principle of operation of thyratron and ignitron rectifiers is generally known, the analytical methods for calculation of d-c output voltages of rectifiers have been surprisingly incomplete. For example, the calculation of a d-c output voltage of a polyphase rectifier with no delay of the angle of ignition or with a slight delay only is a conventional matter, since the necessary formulas can be found in standard textbooks. When, however, the point of ignition of a polyphase rectifier is delayed beyond a certain critical value, the conventional formulas for d-c output voltages do not apply any more."
"The use of automatic oil circuit reclosers on rural distribution lines has resulted in improved continuity of service as well as reduced maintenance cost. However, automatic circuit reclosers now in use are limited in application because of their inability to co-ordinate properly with fuses on the load side of the reclosers. An improved oil circuit recloser has been designed to incorporate the advantages of minimum time-delay opening on the first and second operations to clear all transient faults on the protected section, and greater time-delay opening on the third and fourth operations to allow the blowing of a sectionalizing or transformer fuse to isolate a permanent fault without causing a lockout of the recloser. A description is given of the design, operation, and advantages of this recloser which permits clearing of all transient line faults and isolates permanent faults by properly co-ordinating with sectionalizing fuses."
"The destruction of lead sheaths on underground cables by electrolysis usually is caused by the action of direct currents which originate from one or several well-defined sources. Little information is available concerning a-c electrolysis, and since the extent of its destructive action is less widespread than that produced by direct current it is considered generally to be relatively less important in the field of cable-sheath corrosion. This paper discusses two cases of electrolysis in which the lead sheaths on single-conductor power cables were corroded through, causing cable breakdowns; and describes field observations and laboratory tests which show that at first the corrosive action was accelerated greatly by rectified alternating currents which were induced in the sheaths by the load current. A method of protecting the sheaths against such electrolytic corrosion also is described."
"The existence of relatively high electromagnetic forces in circuit breakers when subjected to fault currents of appreciable magnitude has long been recognized. One of the problems in the design of a circuit-breaker operating mechanism is to provide smooth and effective closing performance, even though the breaker be closed against a short circuit and is thereby subjected to these high electromagnetic retarding forces during the final portion of the closing stroke. The greater the magnitude of the short-circuit current, the higher these electromagnetic retarding forces become and the more serious the effects of any tendency to “stall” or, worse, to reverse momentarily the closing motion of the contacts. This paper describes a solenoid mechanism with novel design features developed to operate a new Magne-Blast circuit breaker of high interrupting rating and capable of closing that breaker against fault currents as high as 80,000 amperes rms."
"POWER-FACTOR improvement of induction-motor loads by means of shunt capacitors has been a common practice for many years. Recently, the practice of connecting the capacitors directly at the motor terminals has developed in order to permit switching of the capacitors and motor as a unit. This will not result in adverse motor operation if the number of capacitors is selected properly. There is very little written material regarding operating experience, although capacitor and motor manufacturers have accumulated some experience.1,2,3,4 This experience has shown that frequently too large a capacitor rating was used, resulting in overvoltage due to self-excitation when the motor starter was opened; in some cases the voltage rose to 200 per cent causing failure of motor insulation, indicating lamps, and other devices. In several instances, the motor coupling and shaft were damaged when too large a capacitor bank was used and the motor switched by a reduced-voltage autotransformer-type starter. In some cases, motors have been damaged from overload because allowance was not made in the overload setting for the reduction in line current due to the capacitors. In other cases, instruments and meters connected in the current-transformer secondary circuit have been damaged due to overvoltage.6"
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"THE electrical industry is nearly 70 years old and what do we find as a result of 70 years of endeavor? At the very time when we, of all people, should be pointing with pride to the achievements of our industry and looking forward to even greater opportunities, we find among our younger engineers and engineering graduates a feeling of uncertainty born of the war's tremendous crosswise forces. With it has come a question whether some form of collective bargaining arrangement might not produce a feeling of general security, despite the corollary that it would probably reduce all participants to a common denominator and diminish the chances of those with outstanding initiative and brains from making rapid progress in their chosen fields of engineering. What has happened? Is the romance of engineering so dead that material gain is the only factor of any importance? I hope not. In the closing decades of the last century, a boy would watch trains go by and yearn to become a locomotive engineer. There was something romantic about the great iron horse disappearing in the distance with its load of cars, and as the boy grew older the only change in his ideas was the preference for an engineering and design activity rather than one of actual operation."
"Materials that are poor conductors of electricity may be heated electrically by subjecting them to electrostatic fields that reverse at rates of from 3 to 30 megacycles per second. The applications made so far of this form of heating promise new, improved products in the future."
"An engineer-doctor explains the differences in training and temperament between the engineer and the medical man and shows why these differences occur."
"This article summarizes the research work and investigations which have been conducted the last few years on the effect of altitude on rating, testing, and operation of electric apparatus. Existing Standards in this field and possible modifications of them are considered."
"Proper illumination, a potent factor in industrial and traffic safety, is considered from all angles, including man's physiological and psychological reactions to lighting. The author stresses the present need for technical skill and technical knowledge–in short, for illuminating engineers of a high order."
"The problem of organizing engineers for enhancement of the profession has had several proposed solutions, some of which have been tried with varying degrees of success. In this article an advocate of an all-inclusive association of professional engineers states his personal views a n d outlines the course of action that may be taken by individuals to make such an association effective."
"With the cancellation of meetings due to travel restrictions the second series of technical papers to take the place of those which would have been presented at the summer meeting are offered for discussion by mail."
"“A History of the Schenectady Section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers” is the tide of an interesting 30-page pamphlet recently published. The story runs from 1898 to 1944 and includes the bylaws adopted in 1916; the amendments of 1927, 1928, and 1930, and appendixes 1–8 inclusive."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The United States “is headed for a secondand third-rate role in the postwar period” unless present Government policies of draftlng scientific students and of exporting scientific equipment are remedied, accordlng to an editorial in a recent issue of Industotal and Engineering Chemistry, published by the American Chemical Society, New York, N.Y."
"Instrument Society Formed. A new national society to be known as “The Instrument Society of America” was organized in Pittsburgh, Pa., on April 28, 1945, at a conference attended by delegates of 15 measurement-and-control-instrument societies from different industrial centers throughout the United States. The purpose of the society, which is nonprofessional, will be to advance the arts and sciences that are connected with the theory, design, manufacture, and use of instruments. Pro-tempore officers elected included A. F. Sperry (M '37) owner of the Hubbard Engineering Company, Chicago, Ill."
"William Frederick Durand, professor emeritus of Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif., has been awarded the fifth John J. Carty Medal for the Advancement of Science and an honorarium of $2,500 by the National Academy of Science. The award was made with this citation in his profession, a versatile and creative engineer, among his colleagues, a wise and friendly counselor; before his students, a kindly and inspiring teacher; to the Nation, an able and devoted servant."
"By the end of this year the Bell System expects to have 2,000 miles of its coaxial-cable network manufactured and at least three fourths of this mileage in the ground, according to a recent announcement of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. By the end of this year the cable crews on the new all-cable route to the West Coast are scheduled to be in the vicinity of Fort Worth and Dallas, halfway across the continent. The aim is to reach Los Angeles in the spring of 1947. One year ago the company announced a five-year coaxial-cable program involving 6,000 to 7,000 route-miles of construction."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"AS PROGRESS in the design and in the calculation of performance of synchronous machines has been made it has become necessary to specify their characteristics with continually greater accuracy. The predetermination of short-circuit currents, voltage dip on sudden application of load, stability characteristics during system disturbances, excitation requirements, and many other characteristics has been made possible by the development of an adequate theory, confirmed and refined by operating and test experience. The machine characteristics commonly used to predict performance usually are specified in terms of various reactances and time constants. As the number of these quantities and the accuracy to which they must be known has increased, certain inconsistencies among methods of definition, calculation, and test have become apparent. These should ideally all result in the same value. If they differ, one naturally would be inclined to consider the test value as the true reactance. In any case in which a reactance of a particular machine is specified, a method of testing for that reactance also must be specified, and any other definition of the reactance has little practical significance. In this sense the criterion of a good method of calculating the reactance is that it predict as nearly as possible the value which will be found by the specified test method. It, of course, can be asked legitimately whether the specified reactance is the proper one in view of the use to which it is to be put, and the definition is intended to describe the reactance so as to answer this question."
"The selection of insulating materials to guard against electrolytic corrosion has become increasingly important as the use of electric devices in the tropics has increased. Moisture conditions in the tropics are described, and means for producing such conditions in the laboratory are considered. The visual, corrosion-current, and water-extract conductivity methods for studying electrolytic corrosion are described. Typical results for a number of different materials are given."
"The advent of new high-temperature insulating materials, such as the silicones, gives new freedoms to the motor designer. It is probable, however, that factors other than insulation will limit the desirable motor-temperature rise to values well below the endurance limits of these materials. It is, therefore, desirable to recognize that the size of an induction motor is measured electrically by its breakdown torque, and mechanically by the size of shaft and bearings, the temperature rise being only a secondary factor. Calculations are presented, pased on idealized assumptions, which indicate that the optimum temperature rise for continuous rated induction motors is Delow 80 degrees centigrade, whatever the insulating materials used."
"THE enormous development in the use of rectifiers for the electrolytic reduction of light metals has been an outstanding development of World War II. One important problem in this rectifier development has been the performance at the time of rectifier arc-back. Currents of between 50,000 to 100,000 amperes maybe encountered on an individual rectifier and associated transformer. Still higher currents would obtain if back feed from other units on the same bus were not eliminated by prompt isolation from the circuit or d-c bus."
"IN its present known form1–6 the power-circle diagram of a transmission system applies to operating conditions where constant voltages are maintained at both the sender and the receiver. While this is by far the most frequent type of operation, instances are numerous where the designer or analyst is confronted with conditions requiring only one of these two voltages to be constant. This is true particularly when the concept of a transmission system is taken in a broader sense as applied to a generator, motor, transmission line, or generally speaking, to any part of a composite transmission system. To mention but one example, the induction motor may be considered a transmission system which supplies power in varying amounts to an equivalent electric load of unity power factor, and its circle diagram accordingly is of a different character. From a viewpoint which looks at all equipment having input and output terminals as general transmission systems, it seemed desirable to formulate on a broader basis the relations between sender and receiver power as exemplified by the constant-voltage circles of the conventional sender and receiver charts. Moreover, a more general relation will permit the translation from one chart to the other, not only of actual power loci of operation, but also of efficiency contours, contours of loss, power factor, receiver wattage and amperage, and other concepts of interest. As it happens, all these cases fall into the wider class where (a). The voltage is maintained constant at one terminal point of the system. (b). The operating locus or contour is a circle for this terminal point."
"Serious consideration is being given to large power-system interconnections which could develop short circuits at certain locations in excess of 3,500,000 kva. High-voltage oil-circuit-breaker capabilities for such heavy duty are reviewed in this paper, the fundamental design requirements outlined, and results of high-power laboratory tests presented which demonstrate that interrupting capacity ratings as high as 5,000,000 kva are feasible. Laboratory test methods for demonstrating these extremely high arc rupturing ratings are evaluated. The importance of verifying high-speed reclosing performance with high-power tests is emphasised, and on the basis of data already obtained, standard reclosing time intervals considerably less than 20 cycles are foreseen."
"SENSITIVE electric and electronic devices are what might be termed the “nerve centers” of modern war equipment. The men in airplanes, ships, and tanks depend upon them for communication, for fire and direction control, and for the detection of enemy targets. The role of these devices in nonmilitary applications is familiar."
"ELECTROLYTIC CORROSION is recognized universally as a major problem in the maintenance of underground metallic structures. This is particularly true in the case of underground cable and piping systems. The subject is of a primary interest to cable and pipe-operating utilities, and a great deal of study and research is being devoted to electrolytic corrosion by utility engineers throughout the country."
"THE rapidly expanding use of mercury-arc rectifiers, both as to total installed capacity and the relatively large number of units operating in parallel, emphasizes the importance of suitable switch-gear to provide over-all satisfactory rectifier operation. The necessity for such switch-gear, particularly for a high-speed air circuit breaker in the rectifier anode circuit, has been outlined in previous papers before the Institute.1,2 During the past several years, considerable progress has been made in the reduction of arc-backs in power rectifiers. Anode circuit breakers, although subject to less frequent duty as a result of this progress, are required to operate at higher voltages and interrupt greater arc-back currents as indicated by recorded rates of rise of current in excess of 11,000,000 amperes per second. At this rate of rise in a large 650-volt (d-c) rectifier installation, the anode-breaker interrupting duty is equivalent to that of the first phase to clear a 130,000-kva fault in a three-phase 1,400-volt a-c system."
"SEVERAL general mathematical solutions have been published dealing with the tapered transmission line as applied to communication service. These solutions1–5 are in the form of a series or in Bessel functions, and are rather unwieldy for purposes of design."
"THERE HAS BEEN considerable discussion and differences of opinion relative to the significance of insulation-resistance measurements. Numerous investigations have been made and investigators have placed varying degrees of importance on their findings.1,2,3,4 Nevertheless, insulation-resistance measurements are used widely as a nondestructive insulation test to aid in judging the suitability of machine windings for proof test or for service. Therefore, data on average values and normal spread of the insulation resistance of new insulation are of general interest. It is the belief of the authors that in order to interpret properly insulation-resistance data, a sufficiently large number of machines must be examined to permit statistical analysis.5,6 Furthermore, insulation studied must be segregated according to detailed construction since broad insulation classifications such as AIEE class A or class B do not specify necessarily the order of insulation resistivity. Also, the effect of other important factors such as temperature and physical-design characteristics must be considered."
"FREQUENCY CHANGERS have been discussed at various times during the past 20 years.1,2 At the 1944 AIEE summer technical meeting there was presented a thorough analysis of the design and operating characteristics of a new 20,000-kw electronic frequency changer.3–7 Its installation, together with increasing interest in railroad electrification for the immediate postwar period, has resulted in a renewed interest in frequency changers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"VACUUM-TUBE amplifiers for audio-and low-frequency applications are commonly resistance-coupled, and their-design is an everyday problem for engineers in many different fields of application. The published information on the resistance-coupled amplifier is not only widely scattered and confusing but also inadequate. No convenient method is available for predicting the required electrode voltages and the correspondingly changed dynamic constants of a vacuum tube having a resistor in its plate circuit. Furthermore, no really practical method is available for designing a coupling network or for determining the phase and amplitude characteristics of both the tuned and wide-band resistance-coupled amplifier."
"SELSYN systems are used very widely as power drives and as indicators when it is necessary to have the position of an element correspond synchronously with that of a controlling element which is remotely located. The receiver Selsyn is used either directly as the output driving motor or as an input to a following power-amplifying stage of a control system.∗ In the study of such Selsyn systems and of the control systems of which Selsyn systems form one of the links, it becomes necessary to determine the hunting-torque characteristics of these machines (that is, the damping and synchronizing torques for small oscillations) as affected by speed, load, oscillation frequency, and, of course, the various design factors. The direct calculation of these hunting-torque characteristics is difficult, but within the past few years methods have been developed whereby the machine performance may be represented by equivalent static electric circuits. The purposes of this paper are: 1. To show how these hunting-torque characteristics can be simply determined by measurements on equivalent electric circuits set up on an a-c network analyzer. 2. To present some of the results of studies made of specific Selsyn systems."
"WE are at present in a period of power-system development during which it is essential that the best use be made of manpower and materials. To meet this requirement, equipment must be re-evaluated and refinements made in the design of apparatus and methods of system control. Loads on existing lines must be increased with continuity of service maintained. Of vital importance at this time is a thorough understanding of the operation of distance relays. The characteristics of the relays, and the system impedances “seen” by them, determine their performance. If it is known exactly what impedances are seen by a system of relays, their performance during power swings, with or without a fault on the system, can be predicted; and more important, relays having characteristics best suited for specific applications can be selected."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper, evidenced in its title, is to acquaint the designer of bus-bar industrial distribution systems with the extent and whereabouts of the theoretical and experimental data available for design purposes. Attention is confined to those factors that essentially determine the operating characteristics of a bus-bar distribution system: voltage drop, temperature rise, and short-circuit capacity."
"The heavy expansion brought about on the Central System of the American Gas and Electric Company in response to demands for power during the defense and war periods has produced a requirement for circuit-breaker rupturing duties close to 3,500 megavolt-amperes. In order to test the interrupting performance and reliability of two types of 138-kv 3,500-megavolt-ampere circuit breakers, the first an oil, the second an air-blast design, and also to explore faster reclosing cycles than now offered by the most improved oil circuit breakers, high-capacity, field tests were carried out at the Philo Plant of The Ohio Power Company. In these tests, involving 20 interruptions on each breaker, there has been accomplished for the first time successful interruption of a full three-phase short circuit of 3,500 megavolt-amperes with three-cycle interruption and with 13-cycle reclosure. The results of these tests, it is believed, indicate that a goal of 5,000 megavolt-amperes with 12-cycle reclosure definitely is attainable."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–4 by M. Mortara, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, January section, pases 1–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–9 by H. C. Marcroft, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, February section, pages 56–60."
"Discussion of paper 45–34 by S. B. Crary and R. M. Easley, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, June section, pages 351–8."
"Discussion of paper 45–10 by R. G. Gage, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New Yorlc, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, February section, pages 41–4."
"Discussion of paper 45–11 by D. D. Ewing, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, February section, pages 48–50."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–31 by H. M. Wilcox and D. C. Harker, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pages 141–5."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–17 by S. S. Watlcins, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, February section, pages 84–6."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–32 by L. H. Hirsch, R. F. Munier, M. L. Schmidt, L. W. Wightman, F. S. Himebrook, T. C Lloyd, O. G. Coffman, and C. P. Potter, and paper 45–33 by L. E. Hildebrand, B. M. Cain, F. D. Phillips, W. R. Hough, J. G. Rosswog, and C. P. Potter, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pages 128–36 and 124–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–24 by A. Boyajian and G. Camilli, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pages 137–40."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–66 by F. W. Atkinson and Robert B. Taylor, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 164–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–12 by Gordon F. Tracy and William F. Tice, presented at the AIEE winter technical meetins, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, February section, pages 70–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–41 by F. J. Vogel, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 167–71."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–42 by D. H. Ware, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 194–7."
"Discussion and author's clof life of papef 45–29 by Charles M. Wheeler, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, Marcfi section, pages 87–90."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–28 by A. U. Welch and R. F. Wyer, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pages 116–20."
"Discussion and authors' closures of paper 45–48 by H. W. Pierce and C. E. Smith, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 178–84."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–81 by L. A. Zahorsky, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, May section, pages 221–5."
"Discussion and authors closure of paper 45–52 by E. W. Boehne and W. A. Atwood, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, June section, pages 337–45."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–20 by R. D. Evans and A. J. Maslin, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, June section, pages 303–11."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–51 by C C Herskind and H. L. Kellogg, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pages 145–50."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–53 by K. P. Puchlowski, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, May section, pages 255–60."
"Discussion and authors' closure oi paper 45–73 by B. H. Thompson and K. N. Mathes, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, June section, pages 295–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–74 by F. W. Hottenroth, Jr., presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 197–200."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–57 by Philip Sporn and C. A. Muller, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, May section, pages 225–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–8 by F. W. Under, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, January section, pages 16–19."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–56 by B. W. Wyman and J. H. Keagy, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, May section, pages 268–74."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–27 by W. R. Wickerham, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pages 98–102."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–68 by R. C. Cheek, presented at the AIEE winter technical meetins, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, May section, pages 215–20."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–47 by C. R. Hanna, W. O. Osbon, and R. A. Hartley, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 201–05."
"Discussion of paper 45–71 by H. Earl Morton-and Orcn G. Rutemiller, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 205–08."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–13 by Edward W. Kimbark, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, February section, pages 61–4."
"Discussion of paper 45–7 by W, A. Derr, C. J. Buck, and J. A. Stoos, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, January section, pases 10–16."
"Discussion of paper 45–30 by T. A. Kauppi and G. L. Moses, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pages 90–3."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–50 by P. L. Alger and H. A. Jones, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, June section, pases 300–02."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–49 by J. S. Askey and J. S. Johnson, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, June section, pages 347–51."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–23 by J. Dekiep, L R. Hill, and G. L. Moses, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pages 94–8."
"Discussion and authors' closures of papers presented at the AIEE winter technical meetins, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published as follows in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945: 45–43 by Philip Sporn and Harry P. St. Clair, pages 401–10. 45–44 by H. L. Byrd and Ben S. Beall III, May section, pages 229–32. 45–45 by H. L. Byrd and E. B. Rietz, April section, pages 160–63. 45–46 by A. W. Hill and W. M. Leeds, June section, pages 317–23."
"Discussion of paper 45–67 by Edith Clarke, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS 1945, pages 372–84."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–26 by W. W. Lewis and C. M. Foust, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pases 107–15."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–18 by I. W. Gross and G. D. Lippert, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, February section, pages 76–84."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–58, by J. B. Whitehead and J. M. Kopper, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 171–7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–59 by L. J. Gorman, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, June section, pages 329–36."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–60 by Howard S. Phelps and Frank Kahn, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 156–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–61 by C. M. Sherer and K. J. Granbois, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, May section, pages 264–8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–21 by E. L. Bailey, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, March section, pases 121–3."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–25 by Thomas James Higgins, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, pages 385–400."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–79 by R. H. Kaufmann and N. A. Kieb, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, June section, pases 279–87."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–22 by G Concordia and Gabriel Kron, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, pages 366–71."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–16 by C. Concordia and F. J. Maginniss, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945# June section, pages 288–94."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–14 by H. S. Kirschbaum and discussion of paper 45–15 by G. D. McCann, G E. Warren, and H. E. Giner, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting. New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, February section, pages 65–70 and pages 51–56."
"Discussion of paper 45–38 by Wm. Altar, presented at the AIEE winter technical meetins, New York, N. Y., January 22–26,1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, June section, pages 312–17."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–39 by Thomas James Higgins, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 190–94."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"After careful inquiry into present membership practices of unions and prevailing Government attitudes and policy, an AIEE committee has prepared this comprehensive report considering all the implications of the engineer's bargaining position in industry. The report recommends preparation of a factual manual on the American labor movement and establishment of a continuing committee on collective bargaining. Sponsorship of any collective-bargaining agency by the Institute or any of its Sections is disapproved, though the possibility of the AIEE's occasional intervention in disputes as a friend of the court in behalf of its members is recognized."
"This article contains a brief outline of the fundamental component parts and scheme of operation of the various types of electric propulsion systems. Historical data on the electric drive are included which indicate present trends and possible future developments."
"The difference between measurement by variables and measurement by attributes and the use of the arithmetic mean and standard deviation in solving engineering problems are discussed in this article."
"Engineers are well fitted by professional training and experience to take an active part in community and public affairs, but unfortunately they commonly are not inclined to do so. Wider participation of engineers in public affairs is advocated in this article."
"Changes in Section territory and provision for a new technical committee were among the matters discussed at the meeting of the AIEE board of directors held in New York, N. Y., May 29, 1945."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its 61st annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1945. A general balance sheet showing the condition of the Institute's finances on April 30, 1945, together with other detailed financial statements, is included herein. This report contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in Electrical Engineering."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting on May 24, 1945, recommended the following membersfor transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should befiled at once with the national secretary."
"Edward Parris Burch, retired consulting engineer, Minneapolis, Minn., died May 4, 1945. Mr. Burch was born on August 20, 1870, in Spring Brook, Wis., and was graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1892. Following his graduation he became engineer of power for the Twin City Rapid Transit Company, Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minn., and remained in that position until 1900 when he became a consulting engineer. In the latter capacity, Mr. Burch laid the first high-voltage underground cable installed in the United States (13,000 volts) and, in 1898, had charge of the installation of electric machinery for a 10,000-horsepower-capacity hydraulic plant at St. Anthony's Falls on the Mississippi River. From 1899 until his retirement in 1936, he was active as a consulting engineer throughout the nation, specializing in electric-traction and evaluation problems."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The science of statistics is highly developed and applicable to a variety of engineering subjects. There remains the task of getting statistical methods out of books and into general use. Towards this end examples are given of problems that relate to high-voltage-insulator manufacture and for which statistical treatment seems desirable."
"Surge-comparison methods of testing insulation were investigated with the objective of locating as well as detecting faults. Experience of other investigators was confirmed and limitations of methods and equipment studied. Supplementary methods and equipment were devised to extend the field of usefulness of this basic type of tester, especially to the testing of very large machines with multiple-parallel windings. Apparatus studied included a-c motors from fractional-horsepower single-phase to very large three-phase types; a large variety of d-c armatures; and numerous armature, stator, and magnet coils. This surge-comparison tester has proved to be suitable for use by electrical manufacturers and by service and repair shops, as it can be used for testing most common types of electric windings."
"The magnetic-drag electric tachometer which was developed especially for the measurement of aircraft-engine speed is inherently a more precise measuring device than those instruments which normally have been used as reference standards of speed measurement. This paper describes an electric-tachometer testing system which meets the requirements of high accuracy and is also suitable for large-quantity manufacture of tachometers. The system provides facilities for testing at 22 scale points in a range of speeds from 500 to 4,500 indicated rpm without referring to a standard instrument. The power to drive the tachometers being tested is supplied from tachometer generators which are driven by a d-c motor controlled by a precision tuning fork. The method of operation and the control system are explained."
"The ever-present need for lighter-weight and more compact aircraft electric motors is evident as any reduction in weight or space provides increased fuel, bomb, or pay-load capacity. Reliable 400-cycle motors more compact and approximately 40-per-cent lighter than existing 24-volt d-c motors have been developed recently. Present trends indicate that these motors will be used extensively aboard the airplane of tomorrow. This paper describes some of the 400-cycle motors that have been developed and discusses their requirements with the view of disseminating information so that others may better understand the motors and the performance to be expected from them."
"At the present time there are several remote-indicating systems in common usage in industry. These types include the conventional a-c Selsyn, a-c Magnesyn system, and the d-c Selsyn. The d-c Selsyn embodies two features which present a distinct advantage in aircraft systems."
"Retardation with traction motors, either independently or as an adjunct to mechanical braking, has been utilized in various forms on practically all types of electric vehicles from battery trucks to main-line locomotives. In some cases, it is used only to maintain uniform speeds on long grades and in others to make regular service stops. Although the general principles are nearly as old as the electric-traction industry itself, in recent years numerous refinements have greatly extended the usefulness of dynamic braking by affording improved performance, additional safety, and simplification of mechanical-braking systems. This paper discusses the various means by which favorable results have been accomplished, with a minimum amount of additional electric equipment."
"Varnish treatment of electrical equipment is an important step in its manufacture. Varnish coatings protect apparatus from moisture and dirt and maintain the high electrical-insulating level required for insulation. The quality of the varnish film deposited depends upon the condition of the varnish in the processing tanks. Thickness of deposited varnish films varies with viscosity and body. Heavy films interfere with armature-coil sizes and make problems of heat transfer in field coils and magnet coils more difficult. Thin films give inadequate protection from moisture and dirt. Conducting contaminating materials are introduced into the tanks from rehabilitated apparatus and manufacturing atmosphere. These indicate that close control of tank varnish is necessary for consistently high quality of apparatus treated. Methods of control are discussed which include both laboratory tests of the varnish and physical tests which can be concluded at the tank. A system of daily inspection of tanks for proper quality and daily adjustments before use is described. Dielectric properties of the varnish film and the liquid varnish and periodic chemical analysis of samples from each tank reveal the condition of the varnish. A system of portable cold pressure filtering for removing much of the contamination present is described. It should be recognized by the electrical industry that insulating varnishes are complex chemical mixtures, and care should be maintained in their use. It is important that they be under the control and supervision of persons with the proper training and experience. Constant quality control is necessary for satisfactory results."
"THE MANUFACTURER is always faced with the problem of getting the maximum output from his available equipment, material, and man power. This means operating with a minimum amount of scrap production or producing a minimum amount of products which fall outside of specification limits and which will require reworking. But since tools of production are subject to wear, and since materials vary in quality or characteristics, the manufacturer must have a means of predicting the probable quality of products he is likely to get sometime in the future."
"DURING RECENT YEARS the progress made in the development of permanent-magnet materials has brought about a considerable increase in the use of permanent-magnet rotors in d-c instruments. One such application is in the d-c Selsyn position indicator,1 another in a newly developed electric instrument,2 and a third in a new ratio-type instrument.3 The space limitations in these designs predicated small actuating elements which were obtained by using permanent-magnet moving systems."
"RECENTLY much engineering thought has been directed toward the use of a-c power systems in very large aircraft.1,2 To permit operation at substantially constant frequency, when generators are driven by accessory drive shafts of main aircraft engines, variable-ratio transmissions have been designed. The ratio of such a transmission may be varied by means of a governor which maintains generator speed within a narrow range while the aircraft engine speed varies over a wide range. The engine speed range in typical cases may be three to one or greater. The frequency of a typical a-c system as now designed for large military aircraft must be held within about five per cent of normal, except during unusual transient conditions, when somewhat greater variations are permissible. When alternators are to be operated in parallel, differences in engine speeds should not be permitted to cause loss of synchronism of the generators."
"Although many fuses are available for aircraft applications, it has become increasingly evident that the trend to large aircraft electric systems necessitates a review of existing fuse devices, particularly with regard to their interrupting ability. Such a survey indicates many applications for an improved interrupting device. A new current-limiting fuse has been designed to meet the requirements. This paper describes the device and presents test data to indicate its suitability."
"THE EVER-INCREASING application of Diesel-electric locomotives to the many diversified traffic requirements of the railway systems over the nation is an acknowledgment of the versatility and effectiveness of this type of motive power. It brings to the steam road the high availability of the Diesel engine, the practical adaptation of which to railway-traction requirements is made possible through the electric transmission. The electric generator coupled to the Diesel engine enables the essentially constant torque and speed output of the prime mover to be converted to the widely variable range of torque and speed required for traction by means of electric motors geared to the locomotive drivers. This same transmission is used again when electric braking is applied to reduce or hold train speed."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Equipment of ship's service electric power and distribution systems for naval vessels, the contrasting conditions of electric power systems on shore and on board ship, and the progress of these systems over the past several years are described in detail in this article."
"Stimulants to the heart and circulation — what they do, what they fail to do — observations on the practice of young doctors in treating “shock” cases and the findings of a long experience in the study of administering drugs, are discussed in this article by a medical doctor."
"A meteorologist dispels popular notions upholding either the infallibility or the invariable error of the predictions of the “weather man.” A middle-of-the-road discussion examines recent advances that have broadened the range and scope of weather prediction, the factors entering into the forecasting process, and specific meteorological information the electrical industry can expect for aid in both its long-range and day-to-day operations."
"This article clarifies the responsibility of the scientist and engineer in the modern world, and emphasizes the obligations of society to utilize the researches of science for the common good."
"This historical sketch of the growth of local councils of engineering and technical societies brings developments of the movement up to date. In this review the author gives some valuable information on the present status of these councils in the United States, and encourages scientific men to formulate co-operative plans and arrangements for the interchange of their highly specialized knowledge and the spreading of technological advances."
"Quickest method for checking parts within desired quality range, the various operations of the inspector, and the purpose of the obtainable data are discussed in this article."
"Because of the cancellation of the regular summer technical meeting the annual meeting of the AIEE was held in New York, N. Y., on June 27, 1945. Included on the agenda were the report of the board of directors by H. H. Henline (F '43), secretary, and the report of the treasurer, W. I. Slichter (F '12); also reports of the committee on tellers on votes for the proposed amendments to the constitution. Then followed the introduction of and presentation of the President's badge to Doctor W. E. Wickenden (F '39) and the latter's response. A report on the Institute prizes for papers was given by F. A. Cowan (M '29) chairman of the committee on award of Institute prizes and transmission engineer, operation and engineering department, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, New York, N. Y. An announcement was made of the election of Doctor C. E. Skinner (F '12) retired assistant director of engineering, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, East Pittsburgh; Pa., as an honorary member. (EE, July '45, p 271)."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of July 19, 1945, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"Pursuit of Science — An Urgent Need Among the many appeals being made these days for draft deferments of technical students and personnel in an effort to conserve potential scientific workers for the postwar world, is the special bulletin issued jointly by the Higher Education and National Defense and the National Research Council under date of May 28, 1945. This 32-page pamphlet entitled “The National Stake in the Imperative Resumption of Training for the Scientific Professions” has been prepared to assist those in and out of the government who are seeking a solution of this vital issue."
"Engineer Describes Development of Electric Tank Turret Development of a new electric drive for the turret of the General Sherman tank, with acceptance tests completed on the eve of Pearl Harbor, was described by Stanley J. Mikina (M '41) electromechanical research engineer of the Westinghouse Electric Coporation, East Pittsburgh, Pa., before a recent section meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in Chicago."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"With the selection of the 208Y/120-volt three-phase 400-cycle a-c system by the Army Air Forces for large aircraft, there has arisen the need for appropriate switchgear. In order to be applicable to the electric systems of such planes, switchgear must be able to perform its normal and emergency functions under the encountered conditions of temperature, pressure, humidity, vibration, and acceleration. This paper describes a 120-ampere remotely controlled electrically operated air circuit breaker designed for use as a bus sectionalizing, ring tie, or generator breaker on the 400-cycle grounded-neutral system. The interrupting rating of this breaker is 3,800 amperes at all pressures from sea level to 50,000 feet altitude. The closing solenoid and shunt trip coils have been designed to operate over a wide range of ambient temperature and control voltage. Weight and size, being primary considerations in aircraft equipment, have been held to a minimum."
"RECENT EXPERIMENT on fully impregnated cable-type paper insulation, has shown that under certain conditions use of a paper of low density results in a higher dielectric strength than does the use of a paper of higher density.1 It has also been shown that failure of such insulation usually begins in the oil channels between successive turns of paper tape."
"A TENDENCY has developed to look upon frequency as a variable in dielectric heating which may be increased at will in order to increase the rate of heating quite independently of other factors. No doubt this tendency has been fostered by the acceptance without knowledge of its derivation of the equation for rate of dissipation of high-frequency energy in a dielectric, wherein the frequency term appears to the first power and in the numerator. The purpose of this paper is to analyze more carefully the role of frequency in industrial dielectric heating. The expression for the rate of heating will be critically examined, particularly with reference to the direct influence of frequency and its indirect influence through certain of the other variables of the heating equation that are not independent of frequency. In the light of this and other known effects of frequency, an attempt will be made to determine the practical upper limit of frequency for large-scale industrial dielectric-heating installations. It is hoped that, as a result of this discussion, there will result in the future a more precise use of the term frequency as related to dielectric heating. It should be pointed out that, in order to express the effect of frequency quantitatively, it has been necessary either to assume the ideal condition of pure L and C or to assume reasonable values of capacitance to ground and of distributed L and C. For this reason it has been possible in certain instances only to establish limits."
"THE AMERICAN RAILROADS achieved more than twice as many passenger-miles and hauled twice as many ton-miles of freight in 1943 as in the corresponding period of 1918. Incomplete reports indicate increases for 1944. This enormous job is being done with smoothness and dependability and with far less congestion than was possible with the equipment and personnel of World War I."
"THE ANALYSIS of synchronous machinery is dependent upon a correct and complete knowledge of the machine impedances. The progress of synchronous-machine analysis has been characterized by the recognition of an increasing number of rotor circuits and by an accompanying need for accurate numerical data on the impedances of these additional rotor circuits. The modern equivalent-circuit method of analysis demands an almost limitless array of impedances involving not only mutual reactances but mutual resistances as well. As the application engineer, confronted by more complex application problems, has created more complete equivalent circuits, he has demanded of the design engineer accurate numerical data on the impedances of additional rotor circuits previously ignored. The design engineer himself has been confronted with more complex design problems which have made him directly cognizant of the need for more complete impedance data."
"This paper describes a system of quality control of resistance welding that has been used successfully for the past few years in manufacturing switchgear cubicles and equipment. Standard samples of material identical with production parts are periodically inserted in the welding machine and welded without disturbing the settings and then tested to destruction in a torsion device. The diameter, torque, and angle of twist at failure all are measured and combined into a single figure indicative of weld quality. This number is plotted on control charts, and corrective action is taken whenever the control limits are exceeded. By setting these limits well within allowable values the quality of production parts is assured."
"It has been found that the rapid wear of brushes under high-altitude conditions can be prevented by the treatment of the brushes with a suitable metallic halide. Carbon, electrographitic, and metal-graphite brush grades all respond to such treatments. A great many nondeliquescent metallic iodides, bromides, chlorides, and fluorides have been tested and found to prevent brush dusting on the heavy-duty electric units of aircraft. These treatments also have been applied with considerable success to earth-surface machines operating under severe commutating conditions. A mechanism by which this class of chemical compound may react to maintain a satisfactory low-friction film on a commutator is proposed."
"Electrical-insulation failures were investigated and found to be due to chemical contamination with ionizable materials. Examples of such contamination are certain types of hand creams, soldering fluxes, and germicides in lubricating oils. Contamination mechanisms often involve operations which are otherwise insignificant in manufacturing processes. The effect of these materials on the electrical characteristics of the insulation is reported. The need for close correlation of industrial-hygiene manufacturing processes, insulation design, and quality control is emphasized."
"THE OUTDOOR air switch is a universally used device which through the years has evolved into a few well-known types. Increasing preference has been shown for the rotating-insulator vertical-break switch, which has become almost a standard for outdoor service. A new switch of this type is described, and a discussion of the problems associated with its design is presented."
"EQUATIONS are presented for the calculation of the required number of coil turns to match a given power source for solenoidal coils with coaxial cylindrical loads of nonmagnetic materials in electromagnetic induction circuits. The equations apply to both solid and hollow loads. A correction factor is established for coil shortness providing the coil length is equal to or greater than the coil diameter. Also given are equations for power distribution and impedance values. The accuracy of the calculations is substantiated by experimental results."
"This paper gives an account of the development, operating principles, and use of a possibly unique instrument that has been and is of considerable value on instrument-gyroscope manufacturing and repair production lines. It is used to indicate gyroscope-rotor speed when the rotor is brought up to 1,000 rpm for bearing adjustment. Then, by the turn of a switch, the instrument indicates the rate of deceleration as the bearing is adjusted, thus permitting accurate adjustment of bearing pressures. A third position of the same selector switch gives tachometer operation up to 15,000 rpm for vibration tests. Excessive vibration is indicated visibly and audibly through another amplifier, independently of the selector-switch position."
"Increasing electric-power requirements for large aircraft have brought about the introduction of a-c power systems. Two major systems have been developed. In the first power is generated at variable frequency and converted to direct current; in the second power is generated at substantially constant frequency, and both a-c and d-c power are used. In both systems selenium rectifiers can be used as converters. Rectifier units developed to supply 28.5-volt regulated d-c power, which include step-down transformers and voltage-regulating equipment, are described in this paper. Ratings vary from 100 to 800 amperes."
"THE CONCEPT of a generator voltage regulator as an amplifier which produces a large correction in field current for a small departure from normal voltage is quite well known.1 In the conventional regulator, such as a directacting type, this amplification is secured partly in the regulator and partly in the exciter. A rotating amplifier-type regulator provides the amplification almost entirely in the rotating machines. Exciters may be used to obtain twoor more stages of amplification, or a single machine having high amplification such as a Rototrol exciter may be used. An example of two-stage excitation is a system with the regulator working in a pilot exciter field."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Comparison of the field of nuclear physics and electronics; an analysis of the charges and masses of the nuclei in line with the nuclear theory; definition and description of the process of transmutation and its reactions and creations, namely, radioactive substances and stable nuclei, are the main points discussed in this article."
"As a result of increasing load growth in the Baltimore area, the Consolidated Gas Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore has installed 205,000 kw of new capacity since 1940. The first 60,000-kw unit at Riverside Generating Station was and the second, on April 26, 1944. The two-unit installation is the initial step in the development of a waterfront site convenient to both the transmission facilities and the growing industries."
"The role of the mercury-arc rectifier in power conversion, the use of ignitrons as electronic exciters, and the diversified applications of the precipitator are discussed at length in this article."
"Analysis of raw materials, machines, and men as the three basic causes of variations in processing, and a recommendation for subgrouping of inspection and test data are given in this article."
"A new design of mercury switch in which the tube containing the mercury does not move and the make-and-break action is magnetically controlled, has been developed by the Sordoviso Switchgear, Ltd., London, England, according to information supplied by A. G. Whyte through the British Information Service, New York, N. Y."
"Due to travel restrictions and the cancellation of meetings, the third series of technical papers to replace that which normally would have been presented at the Pacific Coast technical meeting, is offered for discussion by mail."
"Applications have been received at headquarters from the following candidates for election to membership in the Institute. Any member objecting to the election of any of these candidates should so inform the secretary before October 15, 1945 or December 15, 1945, if the applicant resides outside of the United States or Canada."
"A National Research Foundation established by Congress for the purpose of developing scientific research, supporting financially basic research in nonprofit organizations, encouraging scientific talent in American youth by offering scholarships and fellowships, and promoting long-range research on military matters is recommended by Doctor Vannevar Bush, director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development in a report to the White House, prepared at the request of the late President Roosevelt. Urging a new impetus to scientific research in the United States, Doctor Bush stated that research cannot be left solely to private industry though private sources should continue to carry their share of the financial burden. The 184-page report entitled, “Science, The Endless Frontier,” lists five divisions of the Foundation — medical research, natural sciences, national defense, scientific personnel and education, and publications and scientific collaboration."
"Committee Becomes Society. The American-Soviet Science Society is the new name of the Science Committee, National Council of American-Soviet Friendship, Inc., New York, N. Y. All members of the latter have been invited to membership in the society. It was recommended that scientists and technologists be eligible for membership in the new society. Under the auspices of this society 300 scientists attended a reception, August 21, at Columbia University, New York, N. Y., to honor Doctor Irving Langmuir, General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., and five other members of the American delegation of 16 that attended the recent scientific congress in Moscow."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"IN THIS PAPER we show how modern statistical methods may be used as an aid to engineering judgment in determining the causes of variability in a complex manufacturing process."
"IN THE DESIGN and operation of transmission lines the following quantities are of primary importance: sending-end power, receiving-end power, sending-end voltage, receiving-end voltage, power angle between sending-end and receiving-end voltage. Numerous diagrams have been developed for the solution of transmission-line problems, graphically illustrating relations between some of the afore-mentioned quantities. Among these, the modified Evans and Sels charts, based on the general circuit constants ABCD, have found wide acceptance.1,2,3 In these charts the determination of the power at one end with the power given at the other end requires a transfer of points from one chart to another. It is one of the purposes of this paper to supplement the modified Evans and Sels diagrams in such a manner that this transfer of points can be eliminated. This can be accomplished by relating power at one end to power at the other end directly, without intermediate quantities such as voltage ratio and power angle. The diagrams developed are essentially admittance-circle diagrams, relating admittance at one end to admittance at the other end."
"DURING the last few years coaxial radio-frequency cable has been purchased in large quantities by the Army and the Navy for use in aircraft and surface vessels as radio and video transmission lines. Inspection of this cable has been carried out at the factories in accordance with the requirements of the applicable specifications, the latest of which is the Joint Army — Navy Specification JAN-C-17. These specifications require frequent measurements, at the factories, of the characteristic impedance and attenuation during production."
"Resistance-welding machines normally form a very reactive pulsating load on a power system which sometimes produces undesirable line regulation. The regulation can be calculated, and, if it is too high, it can be reduced by operation directly on 2,300 volts or by power-factor-correction means. From a line-regulation point of view, the system of 2,300-volt operation is usually the most satisfactory. The effect of electronic controls on line drop is also discussed."
"This paper contains a demonstration of the existence in practice of relationships between group coincidence factors and number of consumers, and between group coincidence factors and consumers' load factors. Empirical relationships developed from test observations are analyzed from theoretical considerations, formulated in a general manner, and qualified as to the significance of the quantitative values."
"A SYNCHRONOUS motor, generator, or condenser can be started from rest, by means of shaft torque, induction-motor (amortisseur winding) torque, or synchronizing torque. This paper presents data on the last method of starting. The system studied consists of a prime mover driving a synchronous generator, and a synchronous machine driven electrically by the generator. The whole system is started from rest by means of torque applied to the generator shaft, the motor being accelerated to normal speed by the synchronous torque developed. The performance of such a system was determined both by tests on several machines and by calculations with the aid of the differential analyzer at the University of Pennsylvania, and limiting conditions and criteria for successful starting were found in terms of the various pertinent system parameters. In a few cases a system consisting of a generator and two motors was studied."
"THAT peculiar improvement in performance often occurred when a current-transformer core was divided into two parallel magnetic circuits, with different turns on each, has been well known for years, and the reasons for it have been understood in a general way. The calculation of performance of the transformer, however, has been a most baffling problem — one that could be worked out only on a tedious trial-and-error basis. The lack of a practical and straightforward method has been a serious handicap to full use of the method of construction, despite strong evidence that this method of construction, which is both practical and simple, would produce real improvement in performance."
"Investigation of several methods for the detection of impulse failures in distribution transformers has strengthened our belief in the inadequacy of the methods described in American Standard C57.2. All of the methods are discussed in detail, and the most hopeful one is compared with the present method of analyzing the voltage wave and making the physical observations as outlined in the Standards. Data are presented on transformers utilizing present and proposed methods."
"The ability of a 2,300–4,000-volt distribution system to supply single-phase a-c welders is limited not only by current-carrying capacity, but also by voltage regulation. The voltage limitations are reviewed and methods suggested for increasing the limits by changes in the power system and the customers' installations. Three types of subtransmission connections are described for use when the welding load outgrows the distribution power supply."
"The device described is essentially a frequency meter with a scale proportional to the logarithm of 1/frequency, and a dwell meter suitable for use on inductively loaded contacts in d-c circuits. It has been found useful in several jobs in military aviation, one of which is described in some detail. An appendix gives a simple analysis of the shape of the frequency scale distribution obtained."
"THIS PAPER is intended to show in detail the application of the method of symmetrical components to the solution of single-phase-induction-motor performance characteristics. By the use of this method single-phase-motor theory follows very closely the simpler case of the balanced polyphase-motor theory. The author of this paper is of the opinion that a clearer concept of the physical theory can be obtained as contrasted to other methods — either from the revolving-field or the cross-field concepts."
"This paper describes a load-control apparatus recently installed on two 20,000-kw turbines at the power plant of the Tennessee Coal Iron and Railroad Company at Fairfield, Ala., to reduce the magnitude of load swings imposed on a tie line by a hot-strip mill in the Tennessee Coal Iron Company plant. The power plant contains three 20,000-kw turbine-driven generators and is tied in with the Alabama Power Company to furnish the steel-mill load. Previous to the installation of the equipment herein described, the three 20,000-kw turbine generators have carried load under control of their speed governors and the variations in strip-mill load which are about 20,000 kw were imposed upon the Alabama Power Company tie line causing objectionable disturbances on the connecting power system. It was desired to develop a means of imposing all or part of the strip-mill load on the Tennessee Coal Iron and Railroad Company turbine generators to reduce these disturbances. Several methods were considered, and the one selected was based upon a static watt-measuring circuit, the output of which is an Amplidyne generator. The Amplidyne in turn operates the pilot motor of an hydraulic (oil) relay at the turbine to control the steam admission valves."
"The most important properties of thermostatic bimetal strips of uniformly tapered width or thickness or both have been analyzed mathematically, and the findings are described in this paper. A tapered-thickness form is found to be the best practical one from the standpoint of economy of material. Conveniently usable charts are included which are applicable in the form of correction coefficients to the standard formulas for thermostatic deflection and mechanical deflection of strips of uniform thickness and width. The dual-tapered form is especially useful in reducing vibration troubles in slow-acting thermostats, and formulas are given for determining the fundamental frequency of single- or dual-tapered strips of any taper ratio."
"In this paper equations are derived and applied for determining the response time and temperature lag, in general, of a body which exchanges heat with a medium indirectly through a second body. Application is made to a thermometer element mounted in a protecting case, with specific reference to a resistance-type thermometer such as is used for aircraft and marine purposes. The temperature distribution along the stem and the errors resulting when the head of the bulb and medium differ in temperature also are derived."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Certain concepts of physics and electromagnetism conflict on several points, chiefly because of the latter's lack of general equations for the reaction of electrical particles. In this article the author introduces a few fundamental electrodynamic concepts and deduces from them some of the commonly used formulas for forces exerted on current-carrying conductors."
"A shortage of qualified engineers in the postwar period is foreseen in this article, in which industry is urged to aid itself. In particular, industry is urged to train a number of young engineers each year regardless of business conditions."
"By expanding her network of hydroelectric plants and increasing production of existing plants, France hopes to compensate, in some measure, for the acute coal shortages now paralyzing her vital industries. French engineers have three programs for expansion of the system."
"Research is a significant element in the field of naval electrical engineering as it is in all scientific fields. In this article the author takes cognizance of the general subject but concentrates on one phase of naval electrical research; that concerned with the adaptation of shipboard equipment to wartime conditions, a period of unlimited demand and limited supply."
"Asquadron of bombers took off from an airfield in England in December 1944 when the visibility had been cut to about 100 yards by a fog blanket. Returning from a successful mission, they landed safely when the visibility of the area was only 50 yards. One of aviation's worst enemies-fog-had been demonstrated to be impotent. How this seemingly impossible feat was accomplished is told by A. C. Hartley, technical director, Britain's Petroleum Warfare Department, in the September 1945 issue of Civil Engineering. Actually, the runway is converted into a huge brazier whose heat lifts fog in the area over and adjacent to the landing strip."
"This article discusses the chance variations to be expected in observed averages, standard deviations, and so forth, when the quality of a product is measured by samples."
"History and events that led to the first scheduled broadcast of November 2, 1920, from the first established station, KDKA, Pittsburgh, with some interesting side lights, are discussed in this article on these two silver anniversaries."
"Communications networks in Italy have been restored so effectively by the United States Army Signal Corps that all sections of the country now are linked together by adequate cable and wire facilities for military and occupational purposes, according to a report to the Chief Signal Officer from the Mediterranean Theater. The prewar Italian civilian wire-communications network was both extensive and diversified but, as the result of German destruction, rehabilitation was required on both inside and outside plants before much of that system could be employed. Combining Italian and American equipment into an efficient and reliable network presentedmany technical problems."
"The following abstracts of technical papers included in the fall program are in addition to those published in the September issue of Electrical Engineering, pages 330–33."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Immediate benefits to American industry in new inventions and new and improved products and procedures of manufacture resulting from the atomic-bomb project were foreseen recently at a luncheon meeting of business-paper editors held in New York, N. Y., under the auspices of The M. W. Kellogg Company, chemical engineers of Jersey City, N. J., and New York. The Kellogg Company arranged the meeting on behalf of its wartime subsidiary, The Kellex Corporation, a noncommercial industry-wide unit which engineered the designing, construction, and operation of the diffusion-process plant of the atomic-bomb project at Oak Ridge, Tenn. As a result of the inventive, scientific, industrial, and engineering advances incident to work on the atomic-bomb project, the Kellex Corporation estimates that more than 5,000 new and improved products and procedures are now available to American industry, awaiting only Government release for volume production."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"IT HAS LONG been known that the inductance of iron-cored coils is not a constant, but varies with the value of current flowing, and that this is not a linear relation, owing to the shape of the magnetization curve of the iron used."
"IT IS a well-established fact that temperature can be measured by observing the change in resistance of a given material whose resistivity is a function of temperature. This principle of temperature detection is utilized in present-day resistance-type thermometers which commonly are called “aircraft thermometer bulbs.” When used in conjunction with the proper indicating instrument, the resistance-type thermometer provides an accurate system for furnishing information to the instrument panel on temperatures at remote points in an aircraft. This information is transmitted in the form of changes in electric current that are caused by variations in the electrical resistance of the temperature-sensitive element."
"IT IS generally agreed that, in order to obtain accurate solutions of sag and tension problems involved in stringing electric power line conductors, it is necessary to use catenary formulas. The basic formulas are, of course, well known In order to utilize them, however, a great amount of laborious calculating is required. Certain short cuts in these calculations have been evolved, notably by James S. Martin whose published tables and method have proved of great help to engineers in simplifying sag calculations."
"Industry, in general, has been adopting the electric motor drive and its control to all types of machines. In the central station, where sequential and correlated operation is a necessity, the use of electric-motor-driven auxiliaries also has shown a marked increase. All recent stations have been built with a major portion of their auxiliaries driven by electric motors. The author suggests the use of the station generator bus as the most reliable source of auxiliary-power supply in electric stations of a closely interconnected system similar to that in the Chicago area. Separate auxiliary service units, not exceeding in size the requirements of the largest turbogenerator unit, also are recommended."
"THE USUAL METHOD of starting a shunt motor from a constant-potential source is to insert one or more steps of armature resistance which are short-circuited by contactors operated after a definite time. The required capacity of a resistor for this type of duty is directly related to load conditions and time setting of relays as well as duty-cycle requirements. If time settings are made arbitrarily without some co-ordination with the kind of load, the energy dissipated in the resistor may be unduly high, because the load may be up to speed in a time much less than the setting. On the other hand if the load has a high inertia, the definite time may be too short, causing excessively high peaks on switching points after the first one. Although d-c motors have been used extensively in this way, equations governing such operation do not appear to have been published."
"Life tests on a new design of relay were so planned that the methods of statistical quality control could be used to separate assignable causes for variation from random causes for variation during life. The relays were inspected frequently at the beginning of the test and less frequently later. The results of these inspections were plotted in the form of control charts. From a study of points outside control limits, improvements were made in the design, the method of manufacture, and the method of test. From a study of the control limits and the number of points within them, predictions were made as to the useful life to be expected. Simplified methods used in recording and analyzing the data and in establishing trends are described."
"IN the last few years, new developments of Selsyn principles and new applications of modified designs have opened a vast field of use, the emphasis of which is on the system, within which the Selsyns exert control. The many advantages of these new uses are not yet fully realized. Therefore an explanation of the fundamentals of design and application of Selsyns will give a firmer basis for present applications and increase the future usefulness of this highly versatile means of control."
"A method is developed for calculating optimum air gap and core size for choke coils whose windings must carry direct current in addition to alternating current. It is employed with data on typical magnetic materials to give curves from which design dimensions can be obtained readily to fulfill specified requirements for inductance, resistance, and d-c burden."
"Most of the earlier studies of eddy-current resistance have been made by those interested primarily in the effect of compromise transpositions on the losses of rotating equipment. Their results have included formulas for the eddy-current resistance for perfect transpositions, but these have gotten into handbooks in difficult form or have been ignored entirely. Such formulas are presented here in more usable form, with more information on their limitations, and further formulas are derived for minimum losses for a number of different cases. Included is a set of curves showing eddy-current resistance as a function of the number of layers and conductor thickness. Formulas also are included that take into account the differing lengths of conductor in successive layers and that approximate the end losses in a spiral coil on account of radial flux."
"THERE are today two general types of lightning arresters in use for the protection of distribution apparatus. They are the valve type covered by AIEE Standard 28, and the expulsion type, for which AIEE Standards are being formulated. Both have been used widely for many years. Typical specimens are illustrated in Figure 1. The valve type is the older. The first distribution-valve arrester was an Autovalve produced in 1922. The first expulsion-type distribution arrester was the deion arrester (United States Patent, 2,050,397) used on surge-protected distribution transformers in 1931. By far the largest number of expulsion-type arresters manufactured have been applied as part of completely self-protected transformers. Many of these have used a somewhat different physical construction and mounting as shown in Figure 2 than that used for the arresters installed separately from the transformers. There exist today several variations of both the expulsion and valve types."
"THE CONVENTIONAL FORMULA for computing capacitance or conductance between parallel cylindrical conductors is derived on the assumption that the electrostatic or current flux between conductor surfaces is confined to paths lying in planes perpendicular to the axes of the conductors."
"AUTOMATIC temperature control for aircraft long has been neglected, and it is only during the war that adequate attention has been given to this important subject. The increased duties imposed upon flight personnel by the requirements of modern military aircraft, together with the necessity for reducing air drag to the minimum consistent with required cooling, have prompted aircraft designers to give consideration to automatic operation of cowl flaps, oil and coolant flaps, and intercooler doors. Automatic flap operation can be appreciated fully when it is considered that engine cowl flaps fully opened might represent an air drag as high as 40 miles per hour on a 400-mile-per-hour airplane."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The problems of civil-service operation, with particular emphasis on the hiring and rating of technical talent, are considered in this article which is based on the author's experience in the Naval Ordnance Laboratory, Washington, D. C."
"TO DISCUSS at any length the many and complex needs of aviation for communications and the varied methods by which these needs may be met would require a great deal more space than is available. Aviation is the largest single industrial user of communications in the United States today. However, it is believed that a reasonably clear picture of the problems and needs may be established briefly and some suggestions may be offered in this article. Aviation is looking anxiously to the radio and electronic industry for the ultimate answer to problems yet unsolved. Until the members of the various communications groups and the manufacturers make available additional equipment in a form which can be used commercially, the needs of aviation for communications and air navigation cannot be fully met."
"In the past the telephone companies have played an important role in the transmission of television and frequency-modulation broadcasts. This article discusses their contributions to date and their program to provide facilities for the expected postwar boom in these arts."
"Industry's evaluation of the responsibilities and contributions of education and some suggestions for its reconversion to a peacetime status are discussed in this article. It was written in response to a number of requests addressed to the authors by colleges seeking advice and criticism about proposed engineering curricula."
"A method of analyzing the results of go-and-no-go inspection in order to judge whether or not the best results are being obtained on a given job is presented in this article."
"A brief summary of the organization and accomplishments of the Selective Service System in World War II which registered and classified more than 45,000,000 men is presented in this article."
"With several of the historical physiological investigations as a basis, this article presents a discussion of the electrical characteristics and activity of living matter, particularly of nerves and the connection between stimulus and sensation."
"The AIEE winter convention will be held at headquarters in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., January 21–25, 1945. Both the winter-convention committee and the technical-program committee have met and the ground work has been laid to restore the convention with its prewar features, insofar as possible, including the dinner-dance, smoker, and inspection trips. The advantages of these social features with opportunities to renew old acquaintances and good fellowship long have been recognized. The technical program will be almost as broad as the whole range of Institute technical-committee activities."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"After considerable preliminary work the executive committee of the AIEE New Orleans, La., Section authorized the formation of a Subsection in the Lake Charles area which formally came into existence March 16, 1945. The area allotted to this Subsection includes the parishes of Beauregard, Allen, Calcasieu, Jefferson Davis, Acadia, Lafayette, St. Martin, Cameron, Vermillion, Iberia, and St. Mary."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of October 18, 1945, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"The basic concept of both patents and copyrights is the assurance to the individual creators of the new and useful an adequate protection of their intellectual property against piracy. The National Patent Planning Commission in its third report issued under date of September 8, 1945, rejects proposals for revision of the patent system of the United States involving a departure from the principles upon which it is founded and by the “effectuation of which it has furthered the nation's industrial and social improvement.” This is the philosophy in the main of this report of the Commission which is a résumé of recommendations already made for the information of the President, and a summary of the main subjects and problems now under consideration. A study of the existing patent laws was made as a result of a directive of the President on April 20, 1945, to the Secretary of Commerce to form a committee to offer recommendations respecting legislative proposals to be laid before Congress."
"A voluntary simplified practice recommendation for hot-rolled carbon-steel structural shapes, as proposed by the technical committee on carbon-steel plate and structural shapes, of the American Iron and Steel Institute, was made available, during September 1945, to all interests, for their consideration, comment, and approval. The proposal, announced by the division of simplified practice of the National Bureau of Standards, contains 18 tables, covers the nominal sizes and weights per linear foot of sections, beams, stanchions, joists, channels, angles, tees, and zees. Sections and angles used in carbuilding and shipbuilding are included."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly under-stood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received from the publishers. Books designated ESL are available at the Engineering Societies Library; these and thousands of other technical books may be borrowed from the library by mail by AIEE members. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books. All inquiries relating to the purchase of any book reviewed in these columns should be addressed to the publisher of the book in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers"
"MICA CAPACITORS by the millions have been used in radio, radar, and other important electronic equipment for our Armed Forces. The unprecedented demand has strained all our resources, and much time and money have been spent in efforts to solve the mica supply problem. One of these was a research project conducted by Bell Telephone Laboratories for the War Production Board. It was concerned with the development of electrical test methods to predetermine the quality of raw mica in terms of end-use requirements in various grades of capacitors. After over two years of work covering development, design, laboratory trial and an extensive commercial trial of two types of test instruments, this project has been brought to a successful conclusion. As the electrical method of classification makes possible the use of mica available in large quantities, but previously considered unsuitable for capacitors, the mica supply for capacitors is greatly increased. An estimated saving up to 60 per cent of the total amount of higher-quality mica used in capacitors is indicated."
"For several years there has been an increasing trend toward all-electric drives for steam-station auxiliaries on account of the recognized advantages in flexibility-; convenience, low operating cost, and comparable investment cost. Substantial economies in first cost also have been obtained along with further improvements in flexibility through the use of transformers as the sole means of station power supply. Gratifying reliability of performance has been achieved by co-ordinating design, backed by extensive tests, including momentary interruptions of station power supply, and has been incorporated in approximately 500,000 of modern plants of the 850-pound 900-degrees-Fahrenheit powdered-fuel-fired unit type. Operating experience has demonstrated the over-all reliability and economy of all-electric drives for station auxiliaries and of the use of transformers as the sole source of station power supply."
"IN SELECTING MOTORS for central-station auxiliary drives it might be of interest to note that the range of motor sizes for any particular voltage from the standpoint of reliable operation is much wider than the range when considered from the standpoint of a distribution system and the over-all economic situation including transformers, distribution system, switchgear, and motors."
"Certain steel-mill loads are fast, cyclic, and of considerable magnitude. Given a set of conditions involving such a load, a relatively small steel mill, speed-controlled generating capacity all connected to a large power-supply system, much of the swings in the steel-mill load will be taken by the large supply system. Of itself, this result may not assume special importance. When transmissions in the large power-supply system, well-loaded under steady-state conditions, are involved, and speed governing of the system is at the remote end of the transmissions, the cyclic loads tend to reappear in the transmissions. These circuits may, according to their finite transmitting abilities and the swing peaks imposed on them, be unable to carry the peaks without undesirable voltage depressions or cause undesirable frequency variations on the system. Generation of power from by-product fuels in a steel mill is generally economical but is dependent on the continuity and quality of the nonstorable fuel as well as on the steaming and generating capacity installed. Relief to a large power-supply system from the cyclic load swings normally carried by that supply system has been made possible by a new static load control and hydraulic servomotor to cause the steel-mill turbine generators to respond to the regulator. The combination has been applied successfully to two 20,000-kw turbine generators, causing one or both to take a base load, a percentage of the variable load, and to modify their total loads according to available steam pressure. The turbine-generator response can be as high as 5,000 kw per second on each unit. High-speed charts show the loads on the various circuits with and without the load control in operation."
"TODAY there are in service over 1,000,000 kva of large dry-type air-cooled transformers, some in ratings as high as 4,000 kva and including the 15-kv voltage class. This wide acceptance in industry of the modern dry-type transformer and its continual growth, naturally has increased interest in its application and standardization. In a prior AIEE paper1 the design characteristics, particularly with regard to thermal performance, have been discussed. The purpose of this paper is to review the development of the modern dry-type transformer, specifically with reference to its dielectric strength, and to present recommendations on impulse levels and methods of protection for applications which may be affected by lightning surges."
"IN LARGE MILITARY AIRCRAFT the demand upon the electric system has been increasing exponentially. At the start of the war, 50-ampere generators were considered ample; this rating soon jumped to 100, and now 200-ampere generators on our four-engine bombers are inadequate. As the limits of power output are reached, the necessity for satisfactory parallel operation and equality of division of the load becomes extremely important."
"IN RECENT YEARS the importance of providing reliable service over lines in the transmission class of 22 to 44 kv has greatly increased. However, little fundamental data have been obtained on the severity of lightning duty on such lines or upon the detailed lightning performance of various types of line design and lightning protection. Most of such information has been gathered on the higher-voltage steel-tower lines. A comprehensive lightning investigation of this type has been undertaken jointly by the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois and the Westinghouse Electric Corporation on several types of 33-kv wood-pole circuits."
"The general problem is stated and typical solutions indicated. Characteristics of governors and of frequency and load-control devices are briefly explained, and effects on generator and tie-line loads are summarized. Illustrating the principles enunciated, interconnected systems in southern Ontario and adjacent portions of Quebec totaling 1,650,000-kw generating capacity are described, also operating experience with automatic frequency control, and automatic load control of two ties, one of which is a 45,000-kw frequency-changer set interconnecting systems of relatively large capacity."
"A laboratory and theoretical study was made to determine the causes and methods of combating an unstable oscillatory voltage condition which has been encountered in aircraft d-c electric systems, using types P-1, P-2, and R-1 generators with carbon-pile voltage regulators. The generator characteristics were found to be such that oscillatory instability would not occur without the presence of a voltage regulator which was out of adjustment and which had inadequate damping. A method is given for determining the amount of damping required for stable operation in terms of the generator field time constant and certain regulator characteristics."
"Increased military production has accelerated the application of high-frequency heating where accurate control of temperature for short intervals is fundamentally important. The heating of metals by induction has been widely applied. The present paper describes the development of a new type of dielectric liquid called Lectronol. Capacitors containing this liquid are particularly well adapted for use in the tank circuit of electronic heaters used in induction heating. The capacitor is water-cooled and is housed in a hermetically sealed completely filled nonmagnetic container so constructed as to provide sufficient flexibility to take care of the liquid expansion due to thermal changes. The capacitor is noteworthy because of the absence of cellulose sheet insulation, satisfactory operation being entirely dependent on the superior insulating properties of the Lectronol. Capacitors containing this liquid are characterized by low dielectric loss and high dielectric strength over the frequency range utilized in power oscillators. The capacity per unit volume is approximately twice that obtained with mineral oil. The electrical characteristics of the capacitor are stable under severe conditions of use."
"THIS guide covers general recommendations for loading all types of oil-immersed transformers with class-A insulation except water-cooled transformers built before 1929, self-cooled transformers rated at 200 kva or less, and transformers having a rated full-load current less than ten amperes. They include transformers immersed in synthetic or noninflammable liquids."
"IF A NON MAGNETIC BAR is bent into the shape of a ring and a single layer of wire is wound around the bar, the self-inductance of the “toroidal coil” formed in this way is given by well-known short expressions."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"November 1945 commemorates the 50th anniversary of the discovery of the penetrating power of the X ray by William Conrad Roentgen. Here another pioneer discusses some of his early experiences with the tube, its gradual evolution, and its current importance."
"Development of X-ray equipment from the early gas tube used 50 years ago by William Conrad Roentgen to the present-day induction electron accelerator is traced. Topics discussed include the various types of tubes involved in X-ray history, the limitations of each, and the attainment of an invaluable industrial and scientific tool."
"Advances in the production of X-ray materials, techniques in the recording of X-ray results, and the opportunities for the electrical engineer in the field of industrial X-ray equipment are discussed in this review of an application of the rays whose powers were first observed by William Conrad Roentgen a half century ago."
"One of the leading subjects presented at Institute meetings a half century ago was the newly discovered X ray. These excerpts from the words of men whose names became recognized as being among the leaders in electrical engineering emphasize the advances in scientific knowledge that have been made during the ensuing years."
"A practicing radiologist outlines the scientific and medical importance of the X ray first noted 50 years ago by William Conrad Roentgen and summarizes, briefly, a physician's view of its value to science in general."
"The penetrating power of the X ray was discovered in Europe in 1895 and since then European scientists have made many contributions to X-ray development. This is a presentation of some of the important aspects of their research as conducted in one company."
"Control charts and their use of analysis to determine possible factors in the process which might need correction are discussed in this article."
"Initiating the Institute's postwar series of conventions, a program replete with both technical and social activities has been arranged for the winter convention to be held in New York, N. Y., January 21–25, 1946. All prewar features have been restored, including the dinner-dance, smoker, and inspection trips. The challenging possibilities of the immediate future will be discussed at the general session by a prominent electro-physicist. Similarly reflecting this forward-looking keynote, many of the sessions and conferences comprising the technical program will explore the new frontiers of electrical engineering in their respective specialties. Convention headquarters will be in the Engineering Societies' Building, 33 West 39th Street. Early registration is urged."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The two new subcommittees of the AIEE committee on planning and co-ordination are actively at work on their assignments to review the organization, methods of operation, and scope of the technical and the professional activities, respectively, of the Institute and of other engineering and scientific societies. This survey is intended to lead to specific recommendations of ways and means by which the Institute more effectively can pursue its stated objectives and thus better serve its membership. Activation of these new groups was announced in the November 1945 issue of Electrical Engineering, page 409"
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this will be presented at the AIEE winter New York, N. Y., January 21–25, 1946, and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Copies may be obtained mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the convention registration desk"
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of November 15, 1945, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"Plans for the re-examination of the curricula of engineering schools previously accredited by the Engineers Council for Professional Development were announced at the ECPD annual meeting held in New York, N. Y., October 19–20, 1945, by the committee on engineering schools. It is contemplated that the proposed re-examination will be undertaken progressively as the schools recover from the effects of their wartime activity. Examination of the curricula of schools that already have applied to ECPD for accrediting will continue meanwhile."
"Appearing in October before the Senate Committee hearings on proposed science legislation (S 1285, S 1297, and related bills) a panel of five prominent engineers presented engineering viewpoints and recommendations. This panel was appointed by the Engineers Joint Council (formerly known as Joint Conference Committee) and consisted of the following: Boris A. Bakhmeteff, chairman, honorary member, American Society of Civil Engineers; Doctor Harvey S. Mudd, president, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; Professor A. G. Christie, past president, American Society of Mechanical Engineers; F. Malcolm Farmer, Fellow and past president, American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Doctor George Grainger Brown, past president, American Institute of Chemical Engineers"
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly under stood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"Airport-approach and runway-marker light circuits are quite similar to the usual street-lighting circuits, except that the important additional feature of brightness control is required. Standard moving-coil regulators were found to be unsatisfactory for this purpose, and so the development of resonant-circuit constant-current regulators with built-in brightness control was fostered by the Army Air Forces. Four years of service have proved regulators of this type to be entirely satisfactory, and they have been adopted as standard by the Army, Navy, and Civil Aeronautics Administration."
"This paper reports progress in the development of variable-ratio drives and governors for parallel operation of aircraft alternators driven from the main engines. Preliminary tests have been made demonstrating successful parallel operation of such drives under various conditions of acceleration and loading. The general system of operation and results of some of the first tests are described in this paper."
"IF ALL THE APPLICATIONS of electricity were listed, it would be found that this servant of man is used more extensively and in a greater variety of applications in the manufacture of steel than in any other industry. From the tiny photoelectric cell to the giant slow-speed reversing rolling-mill motor delivering torques of 2,000,000 pounds at one-foot radius, the application of electric power with its ease of control in the manipulation of steel is amazing as well as fascinating to anyone."
"BRUSHES used on electric equipment have three distinct functions to perform. First, they must carry the load current into and away from the rotating element of the machine. Second, they must function as bearings on the surface of the commutator or slip ring, preferably without any applied lubrication, and at surface speeds sometimes in excess of 100 miles per hour. Third, on commutating machines, the brushes must control within safe limits the short-circuit current resulting from uncompensated voltages in the armature coils undergoing commutation and must resist the destructive action of the very high local current densities which are frequently characteristic of the commutation cycle."
"DIFFERENTIAL PROTECTION is recognized as the ideal means of quickly isolating faulty electric equipment. The carrier-current relaying system described herein is a differential system comparing the phase angles, via a carrier-current channel, of the currents entering and leaving a transmission-line section, and is known as phase-comparison carrier-current relaying."
"WOOD in the dry state is an excellent dielectric, having a volume resistivity in the range of 3 × 1017 to 3 × 1018 ohmcentimeters.2 The resistivity decreases rapidly, however, with an increase in moisture content, reaching values of 105 to 106 ohm-centimeters at the fiber-saturation point (30-per-cent moisture content on the basis of the dry weight of the wood).5 This tremendous change in the electrical resistance of wood with changes in moisture content, which so overshadows the variations due to varying species and specific gravity and ash content of the wood, 4,6 furnishes an excellent means of measuring the moisture content of wood.6,12"
"THE preceding part1 of this paper derived the generalized per-unit equations of the synchronous machine. The machine impedances were divided into two groups: those measurable from the stator terminals (xd, xd′, r, and so forth) called the definitive impedances, and those internal impedances which cannot be measured from the stator terminals (Xafd, Xffd, Rffd, and so forth), called the nondefinitive impedances. The per-unit values of the definitive impedances are independent of the base rotor currents, but part I showed that the per-unit values of the nondefinitive impedances are functions of the base rotor currents, and accordingly are subject to misuse and misinterpretation unless the rotor-current bases are explicitly defined. These rotor-current bases and their corresponding base-current ratios are the fundamental quantities in any per-unit system, and this concluding part II is devoted to a fuller exposition of the base-current ratios of the more important per-unit systems."
"ONE OF THE FUNDAMENTAL principles in the solution of problems is the division of the large problem into several smaller ones. This principle is used throughout electric-motor engineering. One of the most common examples is the use of design constants or parameters. For instance, the complete characteristics of an induction motor are fixed and performance is determined if six constants are known."
"ASTEAM-ELECTRIC power station in general consists not only of such major items as boiler equipment, steam-turbine-generator units and condensers, but also of many auxiliaries. These auxiliaries now have come to be almost exclusively a-c-motor-driven, although steam-driven auxiliaries are used occasionally in some topping installations where their use improves the heat cycle and in other cases for stand-by service. Since the reliability of a station can be no better than the reliability of its auxiliaries, the power-supply system for these auxiliaries, as well as the associated motors and control, become important items in the design of a steam-electric-power station."
"This is a study of high-voltage underground-cable systems, consisting of the cable line and the terminal equipment at each of its ends. The study undertaken indicates the economic zone of application of cables and attempts to find an economic relationship between the voltage and the block of power transmitted over distances up to 15 miles. Thirty transmission lines have been designed using both the solid and the oil-filled cables. The lines can be considered as either transmission links with a unidirectional power flow or as tie lines between large metropolitan steam-power stations. The prices of underground cable and terminal equipment were obtained from manufacturers, and refer to the 12-month period immediately preceding World War II. The costs of various system parts, as installed on foundations, were obtained from the study of actual construction projects in different parts of the country and reduced to the 12-month period. The system capital cost and its annual cost are analyzed separately. The quantities of major equipment items in each system are given, and costs of major equipment groups, or of major items, are represented on a percentage basis. Such a representation permits the estimating of the cost of an underground line, or of the entire transmission project, when copper prices and the cost of equipment differ from those taken in the study."
"THE EQUIVALENT-CIRCUIT method of analysis is a tool of unquestioned competence in the solution of machine and system problems involving a number of simultaneous equations. Its efficacy in obtaining practical results has been demonstrated in many diverse applications. In particular, the complete equivalent circuit of the synchronous machine — complete in the sense that the field-winding circuit and the multiple damper-winding circuits are individually included — is used whenever a detailed knowledge is needed of the operation of all the rotor circuits. Specific examples of its use are in the design of the damper-winding circuits, in problems involving single-phase and asynchronous operation, in the determination of damping and synchronizing torque, and in the determination of the transient and subtransient impedances; these few by no means exhaust the list."
"THIS DISCUSSION of central-station auxiliary equipment and systems cannot cover the entire field of practice, but must touch only selected high spots. The particular points selected were chosen to include those items where the user may exercise judgment in choosing alternate arrangements of supply or items of apparatus, or where his specifications may influence apparatus design by emphasis on particular requirements."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE PRIMARY PURPOSE of this paper is to provide for the system designer a logical basis for the understanding and use of Amplidyne generators. Because of the point of view adopted; much interesting material on Amplidyne design has been omitted. No attention has been given to the solution of equations representing specific applications of the Amplidyne generator, since it is the purpose of this paper to furnish only the basis for such analyses."
"THE MAIN PURPOSE of this paper is to present an operating circle diagram for the capacitor motor, showing that the input-current vector follows a circular envelope, as the mechanical shaft power is varied. A secondary aim is to review the theory of the generalized four-terminal network, thereby developing circle-diagram equations which can be applied to any linear network which delivers its output power into a variable impedance of constant power factor. This generalized method of approach can be applied quite readily to the three-phase induction motor, obtaining the same results which now are available in practically all textbooks on a-c machinery. The same point of view can be extended to single-phase motors, the capacitor motor being a good example. Considerable work still remains to be done in order to make the single-phase circle diagram as useful as the one commonly used for three-phase motors,1 but the author believes that the generalized treatment offered in this paper may be a step in the right direction."
"THIS PAPER presents the results of a theoretical and experimental study directed toward obtaining better agreement between measurements made with different radio-noise meters and proposes a modification of the present method of calibration. The need for work on this subject was pointed out in a paper1 of which the writer was coauthor, presented before the Institute in 1943. Earlier papers2–4 have described the develop ment of the radio-noise meter and methods of calibration."
"A STUDY of Franklin's correspondence on the subject of electricity shows his clear perception of the proper function of a lightning conductor; he also discusses such still controversial problems as bonding and the relative advantages of vertical rods and horizontal wire systems. On the other hand, no direct reference∗ as to the protective ratio of a vertical conductor could be found in his papers. Although this question was raised shortly after the introduction of the lightning conductor and has been discussed ever since, no general agreement so far has been reached. In what follows, this problem will be investigated from a new angle, and it will be shown to be even more involved than has been recognized hitherto."
"THE EXTENSIVE PART played by electronic equipments in the recent war has occasioned the rapid development of a number of component parts which were not available in satisfactory form at the outset. One of the more important of these developments is that of solid-dielectric flexible radio-frequency cables for internal wiring and interconnections between component parts of equipment."
"IT IS THE AIM, or at least the hope of most research workers to achieve perfection — and this is a commendable aim — but the more practical man, while waiting for the panacea, is inclined to go to work with materials at hand — to improvise perhaps."
"IN THE SPRING of 1942, the United States Navy requested Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Corporation to produce polyethylene resin, required for one of the most urgent war applications, coaxial-cable insulation. Prior to that time, the laboratories of its associated company, The Linde Air Products Company, had done some experimental work with high-pressure synthesis, and they proceeded to apply this knowledge to the making of polyethylene resin. A year from the date that the experimental work was started for the Navy, a plant had been built and was producing at 180 per cent of the rated capacity. In the short space of two years, all the problems on development, engineering, and operation of the plant were brought to a point where the Navy's requirements for coaxial-cable insulation could be met. The vital role which this insulation plays in military operations undoubtedly will be brought to light at cessation of hostilities."
"POLYETHYLENE is a particularly interesting material with which to study dielectric strength because of the remarkable uniformity of results obtainable, a characteristic which differentiates it from other dielectrics used for wires and cables. This uniformity, however, exists only if the material is free of mechanical stress."
"AT THE PRESENT TIME the manufacturers of polyethylene in the United States are producing but one grade of the material for radio-frequency dielectric purposes, and this standard grade is covered by a Bureau of Ships specification. In England on the other hand the material produced by the Imperial Chemical Industries under the trade name Alkathene has been commercially available in various grades for the cable industry. The British classify their polyethylene according to a plasticity (melt-viscosity) index based on the amount of material at 190 degrees centigrade which flows through an orifice of arbitrary size under a definite pressure. The smaller the ICI plasticity index, the higher is the average molecular weight of the polyethylene. The British have commonly used for their radio-frequency cable a moderately low-molecular-weight grade known as Alkathene 20, and in order to improve its extrudability and low-temperature mechanical properties it has been their practice to modify the polyethylene slightly by the addition of some high-molecular-weight polyisobutylene. The highest — molecular-weight grades of polyethylene are the toughest forms of the material, but they are also not entirely satisfactory from the standpoint of smooth uniform diameter extrusion on wire. The standard American product represents a compromise between practical extrudability and good mechanical properties over the widest possible temperature range. It is superior to the polyisobutylene-modified British cable insulation chiefly in respect to very low-temperature impact and bend resistance and to deformation resistance at relatively high service temperatures, approaching 100 degrees centigrade."
"THE METHODS and processes currently used in the manufacture of radio-frequency low-loss semiflexible cables are the outcome of combined closely co-ordinated efforts of research institutions, raw-material producers, and cable manufacturers. In this manner it has proved possible, in a remarkably short time, to arrive at the manufacturing methods capable of turning out many types of high-frequency cables, which are subject to severe operating requirements, with the available equipments and man power in quantities sufficient to meet the everchanging war needs. Incidentally, the methods developed for high-frequency cables proved directly applicable and most useful, in the production of other plastic cables such as submarine cables, radio hookup wires, and Army field wires."
"OUR PROBLEM in designing cables for high frequencies is somewhat different in detail from that which we have had in the past, but basically it comes down to these two facts:"
"DIELECTRICS may be described by means of a complex dielectric constant:"
"SUPPLEMENTING the fundamental principles of the design of radio-frequency coaxial cable as reviewed by Mr. Wentz, there are certain details of sufficient interest to justify some additional amplification. A factor of considerable importance to the successful use of radio-frequency cable for many applications is the matter of power rating, which of course must be adequate to meet a given set of conditions at hand."
"THE PROBLEM of cable shielding from the standpoint of this discussion involves keeping energy inside or outside the cable. Shielding serves other useful purposes such as ground protection around high-voltage circuits."
"AN OUTLINE has been given of the electrical and mechanical principles that determine the design of high-frequency cable."
"THERE ARE a large number of cases in which it is required to transfer electric power at high frequencies by means of twin-conductor cable. For example, high-power transmitting dipole antennas require twin-conductor cable capable of operating at high voltage and high frequency with minimum losses. So, too, do the dipole receiving antennas require twin cable, but with somewhat different working characteristics. Measuring circuits also very often require twin cable and, in general, whenever a circuit source of balanced power, neither side of which is at ground potential, must be transmitted by wire, a twin or duplex-conductor cable will be utilized. Conversion of coaxial circuits to balanced twins may also be desirable to obtain better shielding."
"THE FOLLOWING methods of electrical and mechanical testing are in general use at the Naval Research Laboratory for the type-approval testing of radio-frequency cables submitted by the various manufacturers and for special tests. Many of the methods originated at this laboratory."
"PARTLY at the request of the Navy Department, during 1942 the Bell Telephone Laboratories became actively involved in a program of measurement of electric-transmission characteristics of radio-frequency cables. There was greatest interest in improvement of the precision of attenuation measurements. At that time, the state of the art was such that spot measurements had been made at various isolated frequencies, but little if any wide-range data had been obtained on any one cable sample. Since the resistance of a cable braid and the power factor of the dielectric were almost always in doubt, we had no adequate check of the precision of specific measurements on a specific set."
"DURING the last few years coaxial radio-frequency cable has been purchased in large quantities by the Army and the Navy for use in aircraft and surface vessels as radio and video transmission lines. Inspection of this cable has been carried out at the factories in accordance with the requirements of the applicable specifications, the latest of which is the Joint Army-Navy Specification JAN-C-17. These specifications require frequent measurements, at the factories, of characteristic impedance and attenuation during production."
"IN THE MAIN, cable corona is considered as being due to the presence of minute air voids within the body of the dielectric or adjacent to the inner or outer conductor. That this hypothesis is justified is well established by examination of cables in which corona is known to occur and by the experimental behavior of cables under test; their performance is identical with that of a capacitance-shunted gap in series with another capacitance, the whole being shunted by a large capacitor whose capacitance is equal to that of the cable under test. The gaps and their associated capacitances are basically mi-croscopic circuits whose effects are to be measured by detection circuits capable of responding to macroscopic phenomena."
"THIS INSTRUMENT was designed and built in an attempt to obtain an absolute low-voltage standard of corona. It consists of a three-inch-long coaxial cylindrical electrode system, the center conductor of which is a 0.013-inch stain-less-steel wire. The outer conductor consists of a brass cylinder accurately drilled and finished bored on a lathe to 0.1505 inch diameter. The concentricity of the wire is accurately established by capacitance measurements."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–58 by J. B. Whitehead and J. M. Kopper, presented at the AIEE winter technical meeting, New York, N. Y., January 22–26, 1945, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, April section, pages 171–7; earlier discussion published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, pages 477–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–93 by J. G. Tarboux, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, pages 881–9."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–91 by N. J. Greene, D. E. Stafford, and C. Gentilini, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, August section, pages 563–9."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–94 by G. L. Moses and Earl F. Harter, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, July section, pages 499–503."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–97 by C. H. Braithwaite, Jr., and G. L. Moses, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, August section, pages 580–3."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–100 by M. A. Princi, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, July section, pages 504–08."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–101 by Joseph Manildi, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, July section, pages 512–16."
"Discussion of paper 45–90 by Lewis I. Mendelsohn, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, July section, pages 529–34."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–85 by W. K. Boice and L. G. Levoy, Jr., published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, July section, pages 534–40."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–87 by G. O. Schwandt, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, July section, pages 508–12."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–99 by Joseph Manuele and Casper Goffman, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, July section, pages 524–8."
"Discussion of paper 45–98 by L. S. Hobson, R. S. Inglis, and R. P. McCants, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, August section, pages 573–5."
"Discussion of paper 45–89 by J. J. Taylor, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, July section, pages 495–9."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–112 by H. W. Graybill and J. S. Ferguson, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, August section, pages 583–6."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–115 by F. E. Andrews and G. D. McCann, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, November section, pages 768–77."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–126 by A. C. Schwager and P. Y. Wang, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 610–15."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–103 by J. B. Whitehead, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, August section, pages 555–7."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–119 by C. Concordia, S. B. Crary, C. E. Kilbourne, and C. N. Weygandt, Jr., published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 629–34."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–129 by H. C. Stewart and J. E. Holcomb, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 640–4."
"Discussion of paper 45–130 by the AIEE transformer subcommittee, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, November section, pages 797–805."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–102 by F. W. Suhr, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 651–6."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–133 by W. N. Goodwin, Jr., published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 665–70."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–105 by R. M. Laurenson and T. H. Long, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, August section, pages 593–6."
"Discussion of paper 45–123 by T. C. Johnson, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, October section, pages 703–08."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–125 by G. F. Leland and L. T. Rader, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, October section, pages 695–9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–120 by William B. Elmer, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 661–5."
"Discussion of paper 45–138 by F. L. ReQuar published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, October section, pages 724–30."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–121 by J. D. Ryder, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, October section, pages 671–8."
"Discussion of paper 45–104 by R. L. Longini, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 619–23."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–118 by C. N. Clark and C. M. Stearns, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 645–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–107 by J. T. Vaughan and J. W. Williamson, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, August section, pages 587–92."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–134 by Chandler Stewart, Jr., published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 616–19."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–132 by Casper Goffman, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, September section, pages 607–10."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–149 by V. E. Legg, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, October section pages 709–12."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–146 by C. W. Frick, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, pages 890–901."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–147 by Edward Beck and A. D. Forbes, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, October section, pages 719–24."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–148 by A. J. McConnell, T. A. Cramer, and H. T. Seeley, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, December section, pages 825–33."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–141 by R. H. Golde, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, pages 902–10."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–144 by John F. Nash and John F. Nash, Jr., published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, October section, pages 685–92."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–158 by L. G. Levoy, Jr., published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, December section, pages 811–16."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–163 by C. J. Breitwieser, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, November section, pages 763–8."
"Discussion of paper 45–165 by G. M. Kevern, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, December section, pages 807–10."
"Discussion of paper 45–140 by R. W. Graham, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, December section, pages 816–8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–157 by F. M. Clark and M. E. Scoville, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, November section, pages 791–6."
"Discussion of paper 45–164 by W. G. Kalb, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, December section, pages 819–25."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 45–156 by P. L. Bellaschi and Edward Beck, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, November section, pages 759–63."
"Discussion of paper 45–166 by P. H. Trickey, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, December section, pages 842–4."
"Discussion of paper 45–142 by Enoch B. Ferrell, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, October section, pages 700–03."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–159 by H. B. Dwight published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, November section, pages 805–06."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 45–139 by C. K. Duff, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, November section, pages 778–86."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"A Study or an explanation of the performance of a piezoelectric crystal in an oscillator circuit involves a study or explanation of oscillator circuits in general and a study of the crystal as a circuit element. Nicolson1 appears to have been the first to discover that a piezoelectric crystal had sufficient coupling between electrical electrodes and mechanical vibratory movement so that when the electrodes were suitably connected to a vacuum tube circuit, sustained oscillations were produced. In such an oscillator the mechanical oscillatory movement of the crystal functions as does the electrical oscillatory circuit of the usual vacuum tube oscillator. His circuit is shown in Fig. 12.1. Cady2 independently though later made the same discovery, but he utilized it somewhat differently and expressed it differently. He found that when the electrodes of a quartz crystal are connected in certain ways to an electric oscillator circuit, the frequency is held very constant at a value which coincides with the period of the vibrating crystal. He made the further discovery that due to the very sharp resonance properties of the quartz crystal, the constancy in frequency to be secured was far greater than could be obtained by any purely electric oscillator."
"The theory of the general behavior of crystals in oscillator circuits has been described by I. E. Fair1. In Fair's paper as well as in others2, it has been pointed out that in the neighborhood of the operating frequency a crystal is equivalent to the circuit shown in Fig. 15.1A. The crystal possesses two resonant frequencies, a series resonant frequency determined by the effective inductance, L1, and effective capacitance, C1, and an anti-resonant frequency determined by these same elements plus the paralleling capacitance, C0. This paralleling capacitance is the static capacitance between electrodes of the crystal and any capacitance connected thereto by the crystal holder and lead wires within the holder. The dotted resistor, Rl, shunting the equivalent crystal circuit represents the effective shunt loss of the holder. In the ideal case and in many practical instances this loss is negligible."
"A theoretical study of lightning voltages in buried telephone cable, of the liability of such cable to damage by lightning and of remedial measures, together with the results of simulative surge tests, oscillographic observations of lightning voltages and lightning trouble experience."
"Ultra-Short-Wave Receiver for the Cape Charles-Norfolk Multiplex Radiotelephone Circuit.1 D. M. Black, G. Rodwin and W. T. Wintringham. The requirements for an ultra-short-wave receiver for use in a multiplex radiotelephone link circuit are outlined. The technical details of a receiver designed to meet such requirements in the circuit between Cape Charles and Norfolk, Virginia, are described."
"Oscillators of all sorts may, for certain values of the parameters, show law-frequency disturbances. Usually the disturbance takes the form of a low-frequency interruption of the desired oscillation. By the method here presented it is possible to determine whether or not such intermittent behavior will occur in a given oscillator and what circuit modifications are required to promote stability. The intentional generation of a modulated wave by control of the low frequency behavior of an oscillator is also considered. Oscillators of the negative resistance type are not considered."
"Over a million crossarms are produced annually in the United States. In the open wire lines of the Bell System alone there are now about 20 million arms in use. It is natural, therefore, that public utility engineers should have an interest in the strength of such an important item of outside plant material; and, consequently, an interest in any tool or means of evaluating the strength of such material. It is believed that the moment diagram is a convenient and reasonably reliable tool for estimating the loads an arm will support, for measuring the effect of knots of various sizes and of pinhole locations on arm strength, and for answering similar questions relating to the bending strength of crossarms under vertical loads."
"In this section we use the representations of the noise currents given in section 2.8 to derive some statistical properties of I(t). The first six sections are concerned with the probability distribution of I(t) and of its zeros and maxima. Sections 3.7 and 3.8 are concerned with the statistical properties of the envelope of I(t). Fluctuations of integrals involving I2(t) are discussed in section 3.9. The probability distribution of a sine wave plus a noise current is given in 3.10 and in 3.11 an alternative method of deriving the results of Part III is mentioned. Prof. Uhlenbeck has pointed out that much of the material in this Part is closely connected with the theory of Markoff processes. Also S. Chandrasekhar has written a review of a class of physical problems which is related, in a general way, to the present subject.22"
"Historical Background of Electron Optics.1 C. J. Calbick. The discovery of electron optics resulted from studies of the action, upon electrons or other charged particles, of electric and magnetic fields employed for the purpose of obtaining sharply defined beams. The original Braun tube (1896) employed gas-focusing, as did the low-voltage cathode-ray oscilloscope developed by Johnson in 1920. It was early discovered that an axial magnetic field could be used to concentrate the electrons into a beam, and this method came into wide use in the field of high-voltage cathode-ray oscillography. In 1927 Busch published a theoretical study of the action of an axially-symmetric magnetic field upon paraxial electrons, showing that the equation of the trajectories of the electrons was similar to that of the paths of light rays through an axially symmetric optical system. He concluded that such magnetic fields constituted lenses for electrons and presented experimental confirmation. In 1931 Knoll and Ruska presented a large amount of additional experimental material and used the words “electron optics” to describe the analogy. In 1932 Bruche and Johannson published the first electron micrographs."
"The subject of this talk is “Physical limitations in electron ballistics”. It is pleasant to have a chance to talk about such physical limitations, because there is so little we can do about them. And, although these limitations are apt to be discouraging, a knowledge of them is very valuable, for it keeps us from spending time trying, like the inventors of perpetual motion machines, to do the impossible."
"This, the final lecture of a series on Electron Ballistics, is not a summary of the material which has been previously presented but rather it is an attempt to show how the ballistic approach can be extended to the analysis of high-frequency devices. Much that might otherwise be said about ultrahigh frequencies cannot be said because of secrecy requirements. However, there is considerable material which can be presented, within the limits of the necessary security regulations, which may be of interest to those who are not already well acquainted with the subject. I will, perforce, not be able to say anything specific about actual devices utilizing the principles to be discussed."
"Mechanical damage is a common occurrence in the transportation of packaged articles. The causes of failures are generally inadequate protective cushioning, lack of ruggedness of the outer packing container, or occasional abnormal weakness of the packaged article. The first of these difficulties is the subject of this paper."
"Dimensional Stability of Plastics.1 Robert Burns. Because of inherent insulating properties, rigid plastics play an important part in the design and manufacture of precision electrical apparatus. Almost invariably, practical design considerations require that the plastics have reasonable structural possibilities since it is rarely practicable to disassociate completely electrical and structural functions."
"Communication techniques and facilities useful to the entertainment industry have evolved naturally from the Telephone Companies' main objective—the transmission of speech. The development of carrier systems for long-distance transmission and technical features involved in the latest carrier medium—the coaxial cable—are reviewed. The television transmission capabilities of this medium, both now and what may be expected shortly after the war, are mentioned. The extensive system of such cables planned for the next 5 years, supplemented by radio relay systems to the extent that these prove themselves as a part of a communications network, will provide an excellent beginning for a nation-wide television transmission network. Planned primarily to meet telephone requirements, this network of cables will be suitable to meet the transmission needs of the television industry."
"Sensitometric procedures for modern multilayer reversible color films are much more exacting than those for black-and-white films. The tolerances for exposing and processing these materials are smaller and the analysis of the results is more difficult. — The problem of evaluating the processed sensitometric strips in terms of the color densities of each step has been facilitated by the construction of a specialized form of a direct-reading densitometer. An electron multiplier phototube, coupled to the grid of a logarithmically responsive triode, furnished the extreme sensitivity necessary to read high color densities with satisfactory spectral purity."
"This paper describes a light, compact motion picture camera with a built-in finder system and other special requirements for military usage. These cameras are not available to the general professional trade at the present time. However, the application of experience gained in field usage by the Armed Forces will result in refinement of design and mechanical improvement in the post-war models."
"Projection television, which is simply the projection onto a viewing screen of the picture originating on a cathode-ray tube seems, at present, to be the most practical means of producing large television pictures. — The 2 basic problems of projection television are: (1) the problem of providing a cathode-ray tube capable of producing very bright pictures with the necessary resolution and (2) the problem of providing the most efficient optical system so as to utilize the largest possible percentage of the light generated. These problems were very vigorously attacked over a period of years and the progress made toward their solution has been very satisfactory. — Problem (1) has been solved largely by the development of cathode-ray tubes capable of operating at high voltages. Problem (2) has been solved by the development of a reflective optical system about 6 to 7 times more efficient than a good f/2 refractive lens. The reflective optical system consists of a spherical front face mirror and an aspherical correcting lens. — A handicap of this optical system, for use in a home projection receiver, was the high cost of the aspherical lens. This has been overcome by the development of machines for making aspherical molds and by the development of a process for molding aspherical lenses from plastics. RCA reflective optical systems are designed for projection at a fixed throw and require cathode-ray tubes with face curvatures fixed in relation to the curvature of the mirrors in the system. A number of such systems, suitable for projecting television pictures with diagonals ranging from 25 in. to 25 ft, have been developed."
"There has been need for a simple device to measure with reasonable accuracy the degree of unsteadiness in 35-mm projector mechanisms, particularly where such mechanisms are overhauled and must be tested in a workshop. The following paper describes a simple technique which provides for an actual metering of the unsteadiness factor in terms of maximum displacement between any 2 frames during the running of a test film bearing on a suitable target."
"Previous methods of calibrating disk recording heads are reviewed and a new method which utilizes a push-pull FM system is considered. The new method permits calibration during actual cutting of the disk and so has a distinct advantage over the older methods. Results obtained with a recording head and lacquer disks are discussed."
"In the present work a potentiometric method of determining bromide in the presence of chloride in developer solutions has been studied. For a given concentration of bromide the error in titration depends upon the ratio of the concentration of the chloride to that of the bromide and is materially affected by the presence of developer solution constituents. Percentage correction curves are shown which can be applied to bromide titrations in the various solutions at different concentration ratios of chloride to bromide including those bromide concentrations common in developer solution analysis. A method of analysis more rapid than any mentioned in the literature and which is now used in a leading West Coast motion picture laboratory is described."
"Processing formulae and methods for 16-mm gun camera and combat films have been set up for military use. They are designed to operate under all conditions of temperature found in the field and on all types of Navy processing equipment including buckets, rack and tanks, Smith-type outfits and continuous processing machines of the Houston type. Instructions for development to either a negative or a reversal image are included. This work has led to procurement of standardized 16-mm Universal films of speed index 50 and 100 which can be processed either to negative in a negative developer or to reversal in a single standard set of reversal formulae. — The reversal processing formulae will give usable quality on all 16-mm Universal films as well as on most 16-mm reversible films made by different manufacturers. One formula modification is required for some films (an addition to the first developer). Either a fogging redeveloper (sulfide) or “re-exposure” followed by a second MQ developer is used to develop the reversal (positive) image depending upon the equipment used. It is believed that these Universal films and standardized processes will do much towards removing the confusion heretofore encountered by widespread military activities using 16-mm films."
"An instrument capable of indicating audio frequencies of 10 to 50,000 cycles to accuracies limited only by the panel meter or pen-and-ink chart recording meters, regardless of audio-voltage variations, is described herein."
"The Society of Motion Picture Engineers, at the original hearing before the Federal Communications Commission (Docket No. 6651) in October 1944, requested allocation of frequencies for a national theater television service in behalf of the engineers of the motion picture industry. In view of this request the FCC granted allocation of frequencies for theater television on an experimental basis as set forth in their Proposed Allocation Report. The statement of the SMPE and excerpts from the FCC report were published in the February 1945 Journal, pp. 105–137. — As the report by the FCC was a proposal only, a rehearing was proposed by the FCC to give all parties an opportunity to present additional testimony. The SMPE was of the opinion that the frequencies allotted for experimental theater television were adequate and accordingly advised the Commission that it did not intend to submit further testimony at the rehearing. (See Appendage A, p. 270 of this issue.) — Prior to the date of the rehearing, the Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., filed a brief with the FCC in opposition to some of the allocations proposed by the Commission. CBS requested the FCC not to allocate any frequencies for a theater television service as such allocation was contrary to the FCC rules and regulations, and further, such allocation would favor only a few and might establish monopolistic franchises. Excerpts from the CBS brief are given on pp. 272–274 of this issue. — In view of the opposition by CBS, the Society, through its representative, Paul J. Larsen, presented the following statement before the FCC at the rehearing on Mar. 2, 1945."
"In the mechanical design of practically all types of instruments, it is necessary for certain parts to operate intermittently relative to a continuously moving part. A popular and simple means of obtaining this movement is by the use of the Geneva mechanism. — The Geneva mechanism is so named because its operation is based upon the principle of the stop in Geneva watches which prevents overwinding the mainspring by checking the winding stem after a predetermined number of turns. Now universally used in motion picture projectors for synchronizing the movement of the film with that of the shutter, the Geneva mechanism also has various applications in indexing devices for machine tools. In the design of communications and navigational equipment, it is useful for electrical tuning and band change drives (see Fig. 1), in dial indicating mechanisms, in coil tuning and switch positioning, and in numerous other applications."
"The new American War Standard Nomenclature for Motion Picture Film Used in Studios and Processing Laboratories represents the first fruits of a unified effort to prepare a standard reference source for motion picture terminology. It was requested by the Armed Forces in order that a common understanding could be brought about within the motion picture industry and the Armed Forces as to what is meant by terms used daily in the production of picture and sound negatives and the related laboratory processes or methods employed in making the finished sound-film release prints exhibited in theaters or in the field to troops overseas. — The major part of this standard was drawn up by the subgroup on Nomenclature of Subcommittee C on Laboratory Practice of ASA War Committee on Photography and Cinematography, Z52, comprising Captain L. T. Goldsmith of the Signal Corps Photographic Center; D. E. Hyndman, president of the SMPE; W. F. Kelley, manager of the Research Council of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences; and W. C. Miller, chairman of the Committee on Rerecording 35-Mm Features for 16-Mm Release of the Research Council of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. — The foreword, glossary, and production flow chart are reprinted here. Complete copies of the standard, including a list of personnel of War Committee on Photography and Cinematography, Z52, and Subcommittee C on 16-Mm Laboratory Practice, and index, may be obtained from the American Standards Association, 70 East 45th St., New York 17."
"As the motion picture industry undertakes an ever-growing percentage of production in color, the matters of increasing present facilities, of opening up new facilities, and, above all, the removal of limitations and restrictions upon methods of operation, become of the utmost importance. The engineers and technicians of the industry need to look ahead and formulate the problems and possible solutions thereof, so as to be ready wisely to advise the executives and producers, who, it can be confidently predicted, will wake up to the problems rather suddenly."
"Based upon several years of experience in producing live talent shows, facts and figures are presented to show why film and film techniques are better suited than live talent for approximately 60 or 70 per cent of the majority of television studio programs. — Also discussed is the investment in studio equipment and manpower necessary to create and transmit, for one time only, a relatively few hours of live talent programs per day."
"Mercury arc rectifiers are now widely used in the industry for converting a-c to d-c power. Since d-c power is required for operation of arc lights in motion picture studios, it is of interest to analyze whether the use of rectifiers for this purpose has advantages over other power conversion means. This paper points out the relative merits of rectifiers and motor generators."
"A small microphone boom having the versatility and operating controls of all location and other booms is described. The rear end of conventional booms extends substantially beyond the outside of their dollies and the pivot mast protrudes well above the top of the boom pole limiting the overhead clearance. The small boom solves this condition by being so designed and proportioned that with a minimum of overhead clearance and rear end overhang, and together with its special perambulator, it can be used on smaller sets where it is necessary to place the boom in a corner, or to play the transmitter up close to a low ceiling to keep it out of the scene. — The perambulator frame telescopes to keep within the limits of the boom and to permit easy handling and transportation."
"A crater brightness of as much as 1400 candles per sq mm is produced by a new 13.6-mm super high-intensity positive carbon. This brightness is obtained at 290 amp using water-cooled jaws of special design. With conventional positive carbon jaws, a crater brightness of 1200 candles per sq mm is obtained at 265 amp. The burning rate of the positive carbon in both cases is approximately 45 in. per hr. — Tests of these carbons with a relay condenser optical system indicate possibility of a 30 to 45 per cent increase in quantity of screen light for transparency process projection. Measurements with a standard condenser optical system of the type used in theater projection show increases of 40 to 60 per cent over standard carbons. Mention is made of the necessity of adequate provisions in order that the components of the projection system can accommodate the faster burning rate, higher power and higher intensity of radiant energy associated with the operation of the new carbons."
"A new developer formula is described which has the property of resisting the effect of bromide while maintaining good characteristics suitable for picture negatives. This developer may be replenished in the same manner as ordinary positive developers. By use of this formula the H and D characteristic is held essentially constant, and control is maintained over the effective emulsion speed of the developed film. As much as 100 per cent increase in emulsion speed may be obtained while maintaining gamma and grain structure comparable to normal commercial negative developers."
"Vari-focal view-finders now in use change the field which corresponds to the field covered by the camera lens either mechanically or optically. Mechanical systems change the area of the image seen through the view-finder and therefore produce small images when used with telephoto lenses. The optical view-finders now in use are either negative systems, which do not allow the image produced by them to be framed properly, or they also change the area of the image. — The new view-finder consists of a vario-focal system with movable lenses producing real images corresponding to the different fields of the motion picture lenses at infinity, which are viewed through a stationary erector system. They therefore can be framed and the frame being inside the erector system always appears the same size regardless of the focal length of the view-finder."
"This paper describes the test results obtained by comparing the new Eastman 1372 film with those in current use. Our tests indicate that this film has characteristics superior to the Eastman films now in use for variable-area sound recording, particularly with respect to density speed, processing tolerances, and requirements for direct positive."
"The brightness, or candlepower per unit area, of a light source is an important determinant of the intensity in a projected light beam. A method is described for measuring brightness of carbon arcs by determining the light intensity on a projected image of the source. The principles of the system and the equipment used for the measurement are discussed."
"On May 25,1945, the Federal Communications Commission issued an official report allocating frequencies to the various nongovernmental radio services from 25,000 to 44,000 and from 108,000 to 30,000,000 kilocycles. Subsequently the FCC also issued a final report on allocations to the various nongovernmetal radio services from 44,000 to 108,000 kilocycles."
"The use of a polarograph in the analysis of photographic fixing baths for aluminum alum, chrome alum, sulfite, and silver is described. A Fisher Elecdropode was used in this work. The polarographic method is shown to have an accuracy within 5 per cent for each of these 4 materials, which is satisfactory for photographic purposes. The reproducibility of the method is shown to be within 3 per cent. This method of analysis for aluminum alum, chrome alum, and silver is in use in this laboratory instead of the gravimetric method which is considered more cumbersome and time consuming. The polarographic method of analysis for sulfite has also been found more convenient in this laboratory than the previously used volumetric method."
"This is the third report on the work of the American Standards Association War Committee on Photography and Cinematography, Z52, which has been presented before a semi-annual technical conference of the Society."
"A description is presented of a new high-pressure mercury arc lamp with associated control circuits in which optical inverse feedback is employed to produce an adjustable lamp capable of high stability and uniformity of output suitable for use in printers. Curves illustrating performance are included and discussed with possibilities for use of this lamp in variable-density recording."
"The purpose of this article is to trace the history of microphones, as used in motion picture production sound recording, and the art of their use. It covers also the development of accessory equipment, such as wind guards, rain guards, microphone booms, etc."
"As the result of Army complaints on the printing quality of Vandykes, or brown line print master negatives, aircraft companies have spent considerable time and effort in expensive tracing heavy-up work. — Lockheed has specified and had prepared a new and different type of Vandyke paper having sufficient latitude and contrast to produce acceptable prints from combination pencil and ink line tracings. The paper carries a slow photographic emulsion, is processed on the standard blueprint machines under normal operating conditions, and can be furnished at the approximate cost of the present Vandyke paper."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic or microfilm copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from The Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y., at prevailing rates."
"This report deals with operation and maintenance of studio lighting equipment. A previous paper1 listed all of the various types of studio lighting equipment and gave data on the sizes and characteristics of carbon trims and incandescent bulbs. — Illustrations and tables show the effects of proper and improper positioning of carbons in high-intensity arc units. Light output and color temperatures versus burning hours of incandescent bulbs are illustrated. The value of the use of tungsten powder as a cleaning agent in motion picture studio bulbs is shown. The effects of varying line voltages on studio light sources are described and illustrated."
"Eastman Fine-Grain Sound Recording Film Types 1372 and 1373 have been introduced recently to the motion picture trade. Type 1372 is a film having high contrast and with capabilities of producing a high degree of image sharpness for variable-area recording. This emulsion may be used for recording with ultraviolet or white light with very little difference in sound quality. High energy developers are not necessary for the development of this film owing to the inherent lack of image spread. Type 1373 is a film designed for development in a normal picture developer for variable-density recording. The use of special low energy developers is therefore avoided. Test data are presented for these 2 films."
"A description is given of the characteristics of 2 new du Pont fine-grain sound films. Type 232 is a positive used for white-light printing in conjunction with high gamma variable-density sound track negatives. Type 236 is a fine-grain recording negative film adaptable to both low and high gamma variable-density sound recording techniques."
"A brief description is given of the establishment and activities of the U. S. Naval Photographic Services Depot in Hollywood. The Depot serves as the production center for all of the Navy's motion picture training films made on the West Coast."
"Described in this paper is an optical device of simple arrangement which serves to permit accurate placement of pickup stylus for a series of cues in photography to music playback from disk."
"A description is given of the method devised by the authors and used at the Signal Corps Photographic Center to eliminate human error in critical focusing by automatic means. The fully-automatic dolly was designed primarily to eliminate these difficulties when the camera is in horizontal movement."
"The intermodulation test provides a measure of the distortion introduced by a sound system through its failure to reproduce two or more frequencies without interaction between them. The principles underlying the measurement of intermodulation are described, and procedures for testing both negative and positive films are outlined. Results representative of both standard and experimental stocks and processing are given. — The interpretation of various families of intermodulation versus print density curves in terms of film characteristics is discussed. Test modifications required by the introduction of noise reduction bias and results obtained under such conditions are described. Application of the intermodulation test to 16-mm films is shown to require no fundamental change in the test procedure."
"A brief outline is given of the development and design of the Western Electric Fastax high-speed motion picture camera. This camera takes up to 8000 pictures per sec on 8-mm film."
"The professional man has an obligation to give wide dissemination to new discoveries and developments. This may be done by publication and by oral presentation before technical groups. The proper presentation of a paper requires the co-ordination of four groups or individuals. A check list of their duties is given which may be used as a reference in the planning of technical sessions."
"The very small fraction of the total lamp output which finally reaches the screen from a projector might lead one to question the design of optical systems of the type now in general use. Nevertheless there does not seem, with present light sources, much chance of radical improvement. For practical purposes efficiency, in the sense of the ratio of screen lumens to total lamp lumens, is of much less consequence than screen brightness and picture quality. The benefit from improved efficiency is not necessarily a brighter picture, but more often the ability to work with a lamp of lower wattage. A designer may be justified in increasing the light wasted within his projector, for the sake of obtaining a proportionately smaller improvement in screen brightness. — Other writers have discussed design from the standpoint of producing the best picture. The present paper is largely confined to the subject of calculating efficiencies for such interest as it may have in showing where the light losses occur. The conclusion is reached that an optical system, designed for maximum screen lumens, is doing well from the efficiency standpoint if it projects to the screen more than 2 or 3 per cent of the total lamp output."
"To use motion pictures to enlighten international understanding, foreign-version films have to be considered in order to stimulate the local interest. Instructional and informational films can be changed into other languages either by narration or captions. It will be of more interest to the audience if life-dialogues in instructional films are synchronized with actors' lip movements into other languages, provided it is well done. Entertainment films are restricted to captions translating the dialogue. — The author proposes that the picture area be reduced to provide a space at the lower margin of the screen for captions. A reduction printer must be developed for the process."
"It is impossible to attain absolute dimensional stability of an image on ordinary photographic films. There will be slight, but nevertheless measurable, distortions of the image owing to the loss of volatile materials and to the expansion or contraction which accompanies changes in moisture content. Likewise, a small amount of image distortion occurs frequently in printing. — These distortions are usually quite small and can often be neglected. In certain specialized fields, however, they cannot be overlooked. In one part of this paper the various sources of these image distortions are discussed individually and suggestions are offered as to the manner in which these distortions may be minimized. — Another part of the paper is devoted to a discussion of the drying of motion picture film and the difficulties frequently encountered when the film is reeled with the emulsion layer in equilibrium and the base in partial equilibrium with the air in the drying cabinet."
"Some of the more important problems of theater television projection technique and equipment are discussed. The importance of the two principles of optical storage and light modulation for overcoming certain limitations is stressed, and some Scophony developments are described in which these principles are utilized."
"It has been a great privilege and pleasure to me to serve our Society as its President for the years 1943 and 1944, and I wish to thank the other officers, the Board, and the membership for their full cooperation which has made the period of my administration one of the most successful in the history of the Society. With mingled feelings of relief and regret, I shall pass the reins to my successor, and be happy to give him all the assistance in my power."
"The Journal Award is given annually for the most outstanding paper originally published in the Journal of this Society during the preceding calendar year. It was established in 1933. It is my privilege to announce tonight on behalf of the Journal Award Committee that the Journal Award for 1944 has been made to John I. Crabtree, George T. Eaton, and Lowell E. Muehler for their paper entitled “The Removal of Hypo and Silver Salts from Photographic Materials as Affected by the Composition of the Processing Solutions,” published in the July, 1943, issue."
"Since the invention of the motion picture, there have been many improvements in the art, but possibly the most radical innovation was the introduction about 20 years ago of films and apparatus especially designed for use by the amateur photographer. These substandard films not only made amateur cinematography possible, but they have made a substantial contribution to the professional side of the motion picture art. The success of this introduction was due primarily to our member who is tonight presented for the Progress Award and Medal."
"In preparing 35-mm entertainment films for 16-mm release to the Armed Forces, a rerecorded 16-mm negative is used for contact release printing. Restricted frequency and volume ranges are applied in the rerecording to meet the limitations of reproduction in the field."
"There have been numerous occasions in the past few years when chairmen and members of committees on engineering of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers explained that they did not understand their responsibilities, duties, and authority. Each emphasized that this lack of knowledge about organization procedure literally prevented him from contributing to the work of committees and to the progress and prestige of the SMPE. The purpose of the following explanation of the organization, policy, procedure, and operation of committees on engineering is to clarify this situation."
"This paper describes methods which have been developed for analysis of the various vibration components present in airplane structures. The complex wave forms are recorded on standard motion picture sound negatives during flight. These films later, after proper development, are analyzed electrically, making possible a complete analysis on the ground and thereby reducing materially the time devoted to flight test, and also simplifying the process of analysis of complex wave forms."
"This paper describes a portable film recorder capable of simultaneously recording 13 variable-area tracks on 35-mm film. It is intended for use in the analysis of airplane vibration or similar studies in which it is desirable to record disturbances (mechanical, acoustical, or electrical) from a number of sources in such a manner that the resultant record can be analyzed for frequency, amplitude, and phase relation. Film speeds of 12, 6, or 3 in. per sec are available."
"This paper describes a portable film recorder capable of simultaneously recording 13 variable-area tracks on 35-mm film. It is intended for use in the analysis of airplane vibration or similar studies in which it is desirable to record disturbances (mechanical, acoustical, or electrical) from a number of sources in such a manner that the resultant record can be analyzed for frequency, amplitude, and phase relation. Film speeds of 12, 6, or 3 in. per sec are available."
"The theme of this paper is the translation of foreign language superimposed motion picture titles into Basic English. Interest in learning to speak Basic English by the peoples of the world can be aroused by distributing the regular Hollywood feature films with their original sound tracks, and with superimposed titles in the language of the people who will view them. A translation of the foreign superimposed title into Basic English would also be printed under the foreign title. Such a method of transmitting the dialogue of motion pictures to foreign-speaking audiences would unconsciously arouse an interest in learning English."
"Superportable double film recording equipment designed under the auspices of the Research Council of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, at the request of the Army Pictorial Service, to provide equipment not available to the Armed Forces through the normal supply channels, is described in the following paper. — The equipment fills the immediate need for wartime purposes for completely portable, relatively high-quality field or studio work. Moreover, the practicability of extensions and adaptations to post-war requirements have been kept in mind so that its flexibility and value may later be enhanced by arranging it to handle more refined work if desired. It also will probably find a place in studio work when supply conditions are such as to make it commercially available."
"It was necessary to have a clear idea about a simple and practical means of measuring developing solution turbulation as an aid to the design and construction of a new developing machine at the Twentieth Century-Fox laboratory. Such a means was evolved by engineers at this laboratory, and it is the purpose of this paper to describe the method of turbulation measurement, and the results of some preliminary tests made with both the new and old developing machines."
"When the Television Committee of the Society of Motion Picutre Engineers, at its meeting on Sept. 18, 1944. studied the recommendations of the Radio Technical Planning Board on frequency allocations for experimental television, it was considered that these recommendations did not explicitly incorporate the needs of the motion picture industry. Thus it was decided that the Committee should take steps to insure adequate protection of the future requirements of theater television by making specific requests for the necessary channels at the Federal Communications Commission hearings in October, 1944."
"In addition to the statement on allocation of frequencies in the radio spectrum for theater television service, presented before the FCC by Paul J. Larsen as Representative of the SMPE, Mr. Larsen also submitted a personal statement relating to recommendations made by various interests for commercial television broadcasting. This statement, accepted by the FCC as Exhibit No. 432, presents historic facts of the motion picture industry for the benefit of the FCC in arriving at a conclusion on the frequency band allocations required for a commercial television broadcast service, and is reprinted here."
"The SMPE applied to the Federal Communications Commission for specific frequency allocations for experimental television channels to make possible the direct pickup of programs from motion picture film studios and elsewhere for transmission to theaters within a given city or to relay programs to theaters in distant cities. (See pp. 105–122 of this issue.)"
"There appears to be every indication that in the immediate post-war years at least one drive-in theater will be constructed in every good-size town and city. in the country. A brief discussion of the many factors which must be carefully considered by the builder of such a theater is given in the following paper."
"Ansco Color 16-mm motion picture film has been manufactured for several years. The bulk of the production has been used by the Armed Forces. In field operations, hand methods of developing have been used. However, for first-class results an especially designed processing machine is recommended. Such machines have been constructed by Ansco and in this paper the author describes the design and use of these machines."
"Practical use has been made by the author of the Eastman mono-pack 35-mm color film in photographing the Twentieth Century-Fox Film production “Thunderhead.” In this full-length feature production every scene was made on monopack film including interior sequences, process shots, special effects, and all of the exterior scenes. These latter were made under all variations of light conditions, and an extremely wide range of background material. — The paper presents some of the problems encountered, the production techniques used, and benefits obtained by using this method of making motion pictures in color."
"This paper describes an assembly of 5 equalizers arranged so that they can be controlled by one hand, thereby leaving the other hand free for dialogue level adjustments. The equalizers are capable of lowering or raising the response in 5 different frequency bands without creating changes in reproduced level."
"This paper gives a description of a new 2-way loudspeaker for theaters. New permanent magnet low-frequency and high-frequency units having replaceable diaphragms are described. These units are combined in a horn system having the following advantages: A higher efficiency, extended frequency range, permanent magnet units providing higher air gap flux densities, elimination of backstage radiation from the diaphragms, better transient response, and an improved over-all presence."
"The purpose of this paper is to discuss briefly the method of using so-called reverberation chambers for recording. After a general consideration of decay of sound in reverberant rooms, there is discussed the case where the reverberation of the chamber is superimposed upon that of the room in which the sound was originally recorded. Also discussed in the paper is a brief description dealing with the construction of a double reverberation chamber."
"High-speed motion picture cameras capable of taking pictures on continuously moving film at the rate of upward of 3000 frames per sec produce individual exposures on the order of 115,/000 sec or less. Exposures of such brevity, however, call for continuous illumination of great intensity, and incandescent lamps, which are adequate, have many disadvantages. Among these are: excessive consumption of electric power, heavy conductors and connectors, emission of considerable heat, and appliances and reflectors of great bulk and weight. — Since the actual time during which such high-intensity illumination is required seldom exceeds one second, certain flash lamps will provide satisfactory illumination when operated in suitably designed equipment. Flashing successively on the current of a 6-v dry-cell battery, one or more flash lamps will yield light of high actinic value and of easily controlled direction and duration. — Special equipment, known as the Continuous Flash Lighting Unit, accomplishes such purposes effectively, providing adequate illumination both for black-and-white and natural color high-speed motion pictures. This paper reviews the development of the Continuous Flash Lighting Unit, and describes its operation and advantages."
"The Western Electric 1100-type densitometer has been modified to permit direct recording of H and D curves and other photographic data. A special linear 80 db Speedomax recorder permits direct recording of densities from zero to 4.0."
"The variable-density and variable-area systems of recording sound on film, with the many available forms of standard or push-pull tracks, enable the sound engineer to select the type of sound track best suited to his particular problems. — A combination of 200-mil variable-density push-pull tracks for original recording and 100-mil variable-area standard tracks for theater release has been successfully employed by the Sound Department of Columbia Studios on a number of productions. This combination has been found to provide high output in the theater with low overall distortion values. — The processing of standard variable-area tracks in different release laboratories has long been a critical problem. A method is described which greatly simplifies the solution of this problem and which, in its application, has proved to be thoroughly practical under widely varying conditions."
"It has long been known that the projection life of film could be increased considerably if the intermittent sprockets used were at least as large or larger than that required to give perfect mesh with the film being driven. It is on this basis that the SMPE standard sprocket was designed."
"Mr. Hyndman, Ladies, and Gentlemen: It is a great honor to welcome the Society of Motion Picture Engineers to Hollywood, for I know of no group of men who are advancing the all-important cause of international understanding more effectively than you."
"With the present scarcity of raw print stock, there is need for procedures which will substantially increase the useful life of the film at hand. Prints are rendered unserviceable by damage to the perforations, by mutilation of the edges in shipment, and by abrasion of the surfaces. — The means by which each of these types of film damage can be minimized (and in some cases almost entirely eliminated) will be described. The adoption of only one of these film conservation measures should double the useful life of a print. Universal adoption of all these measures could make possible several hundred bookings of a print."
"The results of a study of the quantity and quality of radiant energy incident at the center of the film aperture with various carbon arc motion picture projection systems are reported. The effect on the spectral quality and quantity of the radiant energy of various filters used primarily to remove nonvisible energy is also discussed."
"A machine has been designed and built for edge-numbering 16-mm original and work prints. The numbers are printed with white ink so that they may be read easily on the black edges of reversal or color film. It is estimated that by using the machine the matching of originals with work prints can be done in about one-fourth the time formerly required. The service is available to anyone making pictures by the direct 16-mm method."
"In the early days of Edison's work with motion pictures it seems that he, too, would indulge in that kind of daydreaming which begins “Wouldn't it be wonderful if —.” There is ample evidence that the sentence ended with the words, “— we might have both color and sound in educational motion pictures.” Edison's daydreaming is a reality today, if we choose to use the materials and processes already available. — Kodachrome can be considered a successful process. Although its photographic speed is slower than black-and-white films, it is almost as convenient to use in the ordinary 16-mm camera. Like all color processes, it has its limitations which, if ignored, may lead to unnecessary disappointment. For most uses, these limitations can be avoided. — It must be recognized that there is no “perfect” color process. The usual requirements for a satisfactory color process include: (1) A suitable gray scale (2) Comparable color scales for the components (3) Accurate reproduction of color (4) Good differentiation of color — Unfortunately each of these requirements conflicts with at least one of the others. Ordinarily (1) and (4) are favored over (3); the result of this compromise is satisfactory for most purposes. — In medical work where accurate reproduction of color is often desired for diagnostic and similar purposes, some of the very common biological stains are not reproduced accurately in integral tripack color films. In such cases and in other specialized cases where the absorption spectra of the photographed material are “unfortunately” located, color accuracy must knowingly and intentionally be sacrificed for color differentiation. — Some data on films and filters not previously published are included. Much of this has been in use commercially for several years and has been helpful in solving in a practical way the everyday problems of color duplicating that arise in commercial laboratory work. Mention is made of some of the fundamental color standardization accomplished and its relationship to commercial duplicating in the independent laboratory."
"This report details the progress to date in the improvement of the release print quality of 35-mm features reduced to 16-mm, which has resulted from the work of the Academy Research Council Committee on Rerecording Methods for 16-Mm Release of 35-Mm Features. It also describes the new 16-mm test film for field checking projector adjustment prepared by the Research Council in accordance with American War Standard Specification Z52.2–1944."
"The maximum force between a cam and its follower depends on the mass of the driven elements and the maximum accelerations imparted to them by the cam. The magnitudes of these forces affect the wear on the surfaces and the tendency of the mechanism to be noisy. If the follower works on one side of the cam only, contact being maintained by a spring, the required spring tension is determined by the acceleration. Some cams can be designed to give a predetermined motion and if the motion can be simply expressed mathematically, the acceleration can be easily calculated. Other types of cam are made up of a series of circular arcs and the motion of the follower is determined by certain geometrical relations. — For any given design, the position of the follower can be calculated point by point of the cam rotation, by solving triangles, or graphically. But to determine velocities by measuring slopes of the position curve, and accelerations by measuring slopes of the derived velocity curve, gives only rough approximations. Determination of velocity by writing and then differentiating a mathematical equation for follower position in terms of cam position, appears to be possible only for the simplest case, but if the problem is taken in 2 steps, first to find the follower position by the solution of one or 2 triangles, and then for a given position, to find the velocity and acceleration from formulas given in the paper, the calculations are not difficult, and the degree of precision may be whatever is required."
"The items appearing in this section were submitted July 12, 1945, by members of the Technical News Committee, who welcome and will consider items of current technical interest from any member of the Society. — Additional information concerning these items, or the equipment and processes discussed, may be obtained by communicating with the General Office of the Society, Hotel Pennsylvania, New York 1, N. Y."
"An interesting discussion of foreign language versions of American motion pictures was conducted at the meeting of the Pacific Coast Section of the Society on June 26. Five speakers from major Hollywood studios took part in the program under the title “Symposium on Foreign Language Versions.” Those speaking and their subjects were: Luigi Luraschi, Paramount, discussed “The Foreign Market—Past, Present and Future” John Bodnar, Twentieth Century-Fox, spoke on “Methods of Foreign Release of American Pictures”; Jack Cutting, Walt Disney Studios, spoke on “Showmanship in Foreign Release of American Pictures” James Stewart, RKO, discussed “Preparation for Foreign Dubbing” and John Livadary, Columbia, spoke on “Recording Techniques for Foreign Versions.” — A large audience participated enthusiastically in the discussion period following presentation of the papers and exhibition of sample reels of foreign language versions. Because of the interest in this general subject, the speakers have been requested to prepare their material for publication in the Journal. — The meeting, which was held in the ERPI Review Room, was preceded by a dinner at the Hollywood Athletic Club where the speakers were guests of local Section officers."
"Suggestion has been made that a paper be prepared outlining the broad principles of photographic sound recording as practiced for motion pictures. If it is attempted to make such a paper deal with anything like adequacy with the many phases of this complex art, it would be nothing short of a book. However, it appears possible to present in reasonably brief space the essential principles of photographic sound recording systems and to supplement this with a bibliography which will at least give the reader a start in studying any special phases of the question. — It is hoped that a paper of this type may serve a useful purpose in helping those who are suddenly confronted with the necessity of working in this field to gain a preliminary picture of what is involved in photographic sound recording, so that they can with less difficulty read the papers which discuss the various special problems."
"Any post-war planning concerning engineering and tooling is certain to include the photo-template process. This process is one of the many engineering short cuts developed as a result of the pressure of war production. It is concerned with the accurate, rapid, and economical reproduction of dimensionally stable engineering drawings, whether on a mass-production or single-piece basis; it completely eliminates the tedious layout step in the shop with its attendant cost in man-hours and liability to error, and cuts costs appreciably in other phases of production operations. — At present it is largely used in aircraft manufacture, but its extreme flexibility and high accuracy, as shown by numerous examples, point to its use elsewhere. The method and materials used at the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation are described. Warnings are given, however, concerning certain hazards and difficulties; means of overcoming them are also given. Applications of this important engineering tool to other than aircraft fields are indicated."
"The following paper discusses the use of a water-cooled high-pressure mercury lamp in a motion picture projector of new design. The factors involved in the construction of an illumination objective for the lamp, light flux and color, cooling system, and safety factors are described."
"Some of the problems in distribution of classroom films are discussed, such as subsidies to school film libraries for efficient operation, educating teachers how to use films effectively, and damage to films from faulty inspection and projection. The selection and acquisition of film material to be distributed is a major problem of educational fum librarians. The paper also discusses subjects treated in educational films and their part in promoting better international relations."
"The original research problem confronting the producer of training films may be summarized as follows: (1) The isolation of the training problem demanding solution; (2) the specification of that problem in terms of trainee behavior; (3) the discovery of all factors which are expected to contribute to the solution of the behavior problem; (4) the selection of those factors which are to become the responsibility of the film; and (5) the presentation of these factors for visualization. — The accuracy with which this problem is solved and the effectiveness with which it is presented can be the deciding factors in the development of the film as an instrument for the control of human behavior."
"The Navy's method of story development and control is based on a visualization of the contents of a film from the initial outline to the screening of the final composite print. Such a plan is necessary to satisfy specific Navy training requirements and to provide the right film in the least amount of time and for a minimum amount of money. Through a system of story conferences and production check points each film is developed in terms of pictures—not words. Such visualization has helped insure the success of the Navy's training film program."
"In reviewing hundreds of training films the Navy has had opportunity to isolate and to define a number of often-repeated blunders—typical weaknesses—in training films. These blunders in treatment and presentation include improper use of narration, faulty editing for training purposes, and faulty basic training film planning. Through planning procedures and through repeated checks during production these blunders can be eliminated."
"Since the number of training films in production by the Navy increased from 30 to 1800 in less than a year, it was found necessary to develop new techniques for the maintenance of adequate production control. This paper describes the punch-card type of machine bookkeeping system used by the Navy for the purpose of establishing and maintaining complete records on films in production and by means of which effective production control is exercised."
"The primary purpose of the gun camera presently used in Navy pl***anes is to improve the efficiency of the pilots and gunners. Although formerly used exclusively for fixed or free gunnery training in slow-speed planes firing no ordnance, it now has 3 basic uses: (1) basic training in free and fixed gunnery, (2) advance training in free and fixed gunnery, (3) combat recording of our own machine gun or cannon fire on enemy ships, planes, and installations. — This paper describes the problems peculiar to gun camera photography such as clearness and sharpness, use of color film, and vibration."
"The training films mentioned in this paper were prepared by the 18th AAF Base Unit, Culver City, Calif. For purposes of clarification, training films are defined as sound motion pictures prepared for formal instructional purposes and treating specific units of subject matter. Examples are given of films dealing with matters of military intelligence, ordnance and bombing problems, and recognition of aircraft and ground vehicles. — While it is anticipated that the number of training film projects of the AAF will decrease as the war enters its final stages, it is apparent that many new training films will be required in the post-war days."
"A discussion is given showing how the motion picture theaters of America, once they install large-screen theater television equipment, will be in a position to underwrite and control certain events of great public interest; how theaters will be available as supplementary concert halls, lecture rooms, etc., and how theaters can be employed as remote control fight arenas, race tracks, football stadia, etc. Theaters, having a box office, may be the logical answer to the question of who is going to pay for television."
"This report discusses the progress of activities of the ASA War Committee on Photography and Cinematography-Z52 up to October 1944. Many of the projects described have since been approved as American War Standards while others are in the final drafting stage. A complete list of all the approved standards, and the status of unapproved projects, may be obtained from the American Standards Association, 70 East 45th St., New York 17."
"Since its formation in 1939, the National Film Board of Canada has been responsible for the coordination of all Dominion Government film activity, and the production of the great majority of films made for Government Departments and for the Armed Forces. — The Film Board's annual output now is about 250 films. Of its 2 theatrical series, one is distributed in some 800 theaters in Canada, and the other in some 5000 theaters in the U. S. besides. Its nontheatrical films are distributed through 120 mobile projection units in all parts of Canada. — The staff of the National Film Board has grown from about 40 to 600 persons during the period under review, and the Board's work now includes the production and distribution of still pictures and film strips, the preparation of posters and displays, and the distribution of motion pictures all over the world. In the film production field, the Film Board overcame certain handicaps resulting from lack of equipment and previously trained personnel by methods which may be of value to engineers charged with the technical development of new motion picture industries abroad."
"These standards apply to all types of fuses whether for indoor or outdoor service, except fuses for 600 volts and below."
"Presents the title page to the paper presented at this conference."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The abundance of papers appearing in the literature of 1945, devoted to different aspects of the electrical behavior of many materials furnishes strong evidence of the increasing recognition being given to the importance of the fundamental electrical nature of matter. The dielectric constant, conductance, power factor, and electrical discharge methods have afforded effective means for observing the electrical behavior of various compounds in the different physical states. This has made possible an extended quantitative correlation of the electrical characteristics of materials with their physical and chemical properties. In the field of electrical insulation, dielectric studies have permitted the insulation material to be fore critically examined, not only in respect to its specific adaptation, but also in view of possible improvement to meet the increasingly rigid specifications demanded in the multiple commercial uses. This evaluation of electrical properties has been particularly vital in adaptations of insulating products in the higher frequency regions."
"Part II of this bibliography is concerned with apparatus and methods used in studying the electrical properties of matter and with various applications stemming from such electrical properties. Books and a few general articles are taken up in this introductory section, the rest of the material being grouped into convenient categories in the sections that follow."
"The literature on ceramic electrical insulation in this report is grouped in the same order as has been done during former years. The wide interest which exists in the construction of hermetic seals made it advisable to add also recent literature on this subject, Glass and vitrified ceramics are probably the most logical materials to make either vacuum or pressure tight joints between conductors and insulators. Furthermore, a section on insulators as spacers in vacuum tubes has been added."
"The year 1945 marked the end of another war and the beginning of the atomic age, The vital function assumed by plastic insulation in the electronic phases of the war was overshadowed to some extent by the drama of atomic energy."
"There is little question that GR-S was used in electrical insulation that was sufficiently satisfactory to carry us through the war, and without which we would have been seriously handicapped. It is also a foregone conclusion that eventually an adequate supply of natural rubber will be available. This raises the question of the extent to which either or both of these two materials will be used as electrical insulation when free markets again exist. It is perhaps timely to discuss the relative merits of these two materials and to try to appraise their future usefulness."
"L. J. Berberich1 discusses the stability of hydrocarbon oils used for capacitor, cable and transformer insulation, and states that considerable evidence has been presented that all oils contain natural oxidation inhibitors. There is evidence that these inhibitors are derivatives of aromatic hydrocarbons, rather than the aromatic hydrocarbons themselves. He further discusses the mechanism of oil oxidation."
"The number of publications dealing with insulating oil problems appears to be growing smaller each year. Although the war has undoubtedly influenced this trend, it indicates that for the present, at least, practical problems concerned with the production, application, and maintenance of insulating oils are being handled adequately. The literature on insulating oils for 1945 is discussed briefly under the topics listed in the following text."
"Report on Aircraft D-C Apparatus Voltage Ratings."
"This publication represents standard practices in the United States relating to alternating-current power circuit breakers. It contains data secured from many sources notably the established standards of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the National Electrical Manufacturers Association. It also includes data prepared by the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies. This publication combines, in one reference work, information relating to the terms and conditions upon which the rating and behavior of alternating-current power circuit breakers are based. The publication is divided into six parts. The main part consists of a definite Standard, C37.4-1945, for alternating-current power circuit breakers, which covers definitions and ratings of apparatus coming within the scope of this work. The remainder consists of supplementary standards, one of which, C37.9-1945, covers the procedure for testing circuit breakers. The Schedule of Preferred Ratings for Indoor and Outdoor Circuit Breakers, C37.6-1945, is included."
