"An expression for the gain of a feedback amplifier, in which the source impedance is the only significant impedance across which the feedback voltage is developed, is derived. As examples of the use of this expression, it is then applied to three common circuits in order to obtain their response to a Heaviside unit step-voltage input."
"The theory of operation of the balanced shielded loop antenna is reviewed. A method of analysis of this type of antenna is described, wherein transmission-line principles are utilized to account for the distributed nature of the loop constants for loops whose perimeters are of the order of one-quarter wavelength. It is shown that the loop conductor within the shield may be treated as a coaxial transmission line having uniformly distributed constants, and that the outer surface of the shield may be treated as a balanced two-conductor transmission line having nonuniform constants. A method is described whereby the relatively cumbersome equations of the latter type of transmission line may be avoided by the use of an \"equivalent\" line having uniform characteristic impedance. A sample calculation is included to illustrate the utility of this method of analysis."
"An improved design of signal delay lines is discussed in which phase distortion is held within the narrow limits required. The decrease of time delay at higher frequencies due to decrease of effective inductivity is compensated by a rise in effective capacitance due to distributed bridge capacities. In some high-impedance lines the natural coil capacitance will sufflice for this compensation; in other cases a controlled amount of bridge capacitance is introduced by means of floating patches of metal foil along the coiled conductor, insulated from it, from each other, and from ground. Echoes, due to mismatch of the lines at high frequencies, may be suppressed by dividing the winding into sections, each too short to yield an echo component within the transmitted frequency range. The design of typical delay lines for 400, 1000, and 3000 ohms impedance is discussed and their delay, attenuation, and impedance characteristics are shown. A delay line with lumped iron-dust cores is described. A practical design is presented for the lumped-parameter low-pass filter m= 1.27, as used for delay lines with very low impedance and for very high voltages."
"Sufficient conditions have been established under which a certain general type of circuit can be used to measure reflection coefficients. Several techniques are suggested for adjusting this type of reflection-coefficient meter."
"Formulas are developed for the performance of a four-terminal parallel-T resistance-capacitance network which serves for the elimination of a given frequency. It is shown that an unsymmetric form of the network is advantageous when a high degree of frequency discrimination is desired."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Engineering proceeds from the simplicity of its early days to the sometimes amazing complexity of its present practices. And important new branches of engineering spring into being to make their contributions to human welfare. There has thus arisen the significant and rapidly developing field of electronic engineering, the future of which is here considered by the vice-president in charge of engineering of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation."
"The extension of radar to airborne applications is a natural evolution of its surface development. Aircraft radar fills a most important gap. in aeronautics-that of providing actual contact with the earth's surface under all conditions of altitude, weather, and visibility. The airplane also serves as an elevated and, highly mobile platform which is readily adaptable to a multitude of radar applications. Starting from scratch in 1938, airborne-radar developments have reached an advanced technological position in 1945. Requirements in the early months of the war were fuifilled by meterwave radar using lobe-switching techniques. The development of microwave radar gave enormous impetus to airborne applications and produced advanced types for air-to-air interception, high- and low-altitude bombing, reconnaissance, submarine search, and many specialized applications. The sharp beam produced by microwave radiation with relatively small antennas makes microwave techniques particularly adaptable to aircraft use and provides a vastly improved display permitting installation with low aerodynamic drag. Several types of airborne radar are briefly described and illustrated. Fundamental problems of design are reviewed. Related problems such as size, weight, and performance at high altitude are considered and solutions are discussed. Several types of display particularly suited to aircraft use, such as PPI, B, 0, and G are illustrated. Utilization, applications, and advantages of auxiliary devices, such as computers, beacons, delay circuits, etc., are discussed. Solutions to systems problems introduced by use of a multiplicity of electronic gear within the aircraft are reviewed."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas from selected articles."
"This paper contains an analysis of the oil temperature rise of water-cooled power transformers. It is shown that by factoring the effect of viscosity oil temperatures can be calculated more accurately for a variety of conditions. Equations and curves are given with supporting test data for determining the temperature rise for different loads, ingoing water temperatures, and rates of water flow. The variations in temperature rise with load, water rate, and water temperature are appreciably different from published data on the subject. A discussion of winding hot-spot temperature is included, although no new test data are given."
"On asynchronous or start-stop telegraph circuits of extended length it frequently becomes necessary to insert at repeater points signal regenerative devices to reduce the cumulative effects of fortuitous distortion. Regeneration is a process of signal scanning by a succession of accurately timed impulses whose phase is as nearly as possible independent of the phase variations of the signal impulses. In one form of a mechanical regenerator, reception of a start signal transition permits the engagement of a brush arm with a continuously rotating constant-speed shaft. The instant of contact of the brush with commutator segments that are short in comparison with the signal period. Following retransmission of the signal the brush arm is disengaged from the shaft and held on a stop to await the arrival of the start transition of a second character. Mechanical regenerators have been developed to a high level of performance, accompanied by some complexity and the need for skillful maintenance. This paper describes an electric signal regenerator utilizing the time of delay of a recurrent filter network to generate the scanning impulses, which together with the electrical equivalents of the start and stop functions provide a regenerative repeater without mechanism. The composition of an illustrative teleprinter signal character and its peculiar susceptibility to interfering line currents is discussed. The development and the electric characteristics of the delay network are described, and an explanation of the regeneration of the signal character by the device is given."
"In certain common rectifier and inverter circuits, gas-filled rectifier tubes supplying highly inductive loads with firing delayed by grid control, are subjected to the application of high rates of rise of initial inverse voltage. This phenomenon results in short tube life because of the sputtering of anode material by the impact of residual ions attracted at high velocity to the negatively charged anode with consequent gas cleanup. The paper describes a method of slowing down or cushioning this rate of rise of initial inverse voltage. A small resistance and capacitance circuit connected between cathode and anode of each tube delays the voltage rise the few microseconds necessary to eliminate gas cleanup. Life test data and practical applications are cited."
"This paper gives the results of a series of tests on two sizes (AN-16 and AN-8) of insulated aircraft wires and cables, which were made to determine their permissible short-time current-carrying capacities. The times under consideration ranged from 0.01 to 1,000 seconds. A description is given of a very simple but adequate electrical test together with an accompanying insulation test to determine what are considered permissible transient temperatures. Tentative recommendations of short-time current-carrying capacity for aircraft cable sizes AN-22 to AN-00 are made."
"The use of high voltage apparatus in military aircraft made it necessary to obtain flashover data on capacitor bushings at altitudes up to 50,000 feet. Some of the more pertinent data are presented in this paper which gives a-c and d-c flashover voltages for porcelain bushings having spacings of 5/8 inch to 2 7/8 inches from cap to ring. The tests were made at both normal atmospheric and reduced pressures, but no attempt was made to simulate the frosting conditions as encountered in flying. Correlations are shown between bushing spacings and the effect of pressure change. A single correction curve for pressure changes cannot be used, but a family of curves is required for various spacings of insulators and electrostatic field configuration. This paper shows that the practical use of porcelain insulators is limited to altitudes and voltages well below maximum values proposed for aircraft use. It is recommended that solid insulation be used in such a manner as to obtain the benefit of its puncture strength rather than its flashover at the more extreme conditions of altitude and voltage."
"Although the many obvious advantages of ship propulsion drives with synchronous motors and generators, and with power supplied by Diesel engines, have been realized for some time, no actual installations were made in this country until a few years ago when a trial installation was completed on a 12,000 horsepower twinscrew vessel. Experience gained from operation of this vessel has established that this type of drive in many respects is superior to other drives, and indications are that it may find extensive use on future vessels. The paper discusses control problems associated with the drive and describes methods of control and types of control equipment which have been found best suited for the drive."
"Silvered mica capacitors, because of their inherently high capacitance stability with temperature changes and with age, now are used widely in oscillators, networks, and other frequency determining circuits in the Bell Telephone System. Their use in place of the previous dry stack type, consisting of alternate layers of mica and foil clamped under high pressures, has made possible considerable manufacturing economies in addition to improving the transmission performance of carrier telephone circuits. These economies are the result of their relatively simple unit construction and the ease of adjustment to the very close eapacitance tolerance required."
"As rectifier capacity is increased, it becomes desirable to use larger capacity rectifying elements. The choice of rectifying element size requires careful consideration in order to provide a complete range with a minimum number of units. The sizes of industrial ignitron tubes for welding control and for rectifier service have been chosen on a preferred number scale providing a proportionate increase at each increment. The development of a 400-ampere ignitron for rectifier service was undertaken to provide the next larger size tube in the series. Development work on the 400-ampere ignitron disclosed that design problems become more complex as the physical size of the tube is increased. The ability of a tube to rectify a given current with a minimum number of arc-backs is affected by circuit duty and by control of ionization, particularly at the end of the current commutating period. None of the factors involved have indicated an upper limit in size, but rather a need for a more exact understanding of the phenomena involved."
"The problem of rating the transmission performance of telephone connections is considered, including a review in considerable detail of a method proposed by J. R. Hughes.1 With this background, a modification of Hughes' technique is presented with indications of certain attendant advantages."
"A new circuit element and control device, the thermistor, or thermally sensitive resistor, is made of solid semiconducting materials whose resistance decreases about four per cent per degree centigrade. The thermistor presents interesting opportunities to the designer and engineer in many fields of technology for accomplishing tasks more simply, economically, and better than with available devices. Part I discusses the conduction mechanism in semiconductors and the criteria for usefulness of circuit elements made from them. The fundamental physical properties of thermistors, their construction, their static and dynamic characteristics, and general principles of operation are treated. Part II of this paper deals with the applications of thermistors. These include: sensitive thermometers and temperature control elements, simple temperature compensators, ultrahigh frequency power meters, automatic gain controls for transmission systems, voltage regulators, speech volume limiters, compressors and expandors, gas pressure gauges and flowmeters, meters for thermal conductivity determination of liquids, and contactless time delay devices, Thermistors with short time constants have been used as sensitive bolometers, and show promise as simple, compact, audiofrequency oscillators, modulators, and amplifiers."
"The unusually large concentration of generating capacity Coulee Dam makes possible short-circuit power on the 230-kv bus considerably in excess of the rupturing capacity of circuit breakers now available at that voltage. Methods of sectionalizing the bus and segregating the transmission lines to limit the maximum short circuit to less than 3,500,000 kva are described in this paper. A group of fault tests on one of the 230-kv 3-cycle 3,500,000-kva steel tank oil circuit breakers was made with a maximum of six generators connected. Three-phase faults close to the breaker rating and single phase-to-ground short-circuit currents equivalent to 4,370,-000-kva 3-phase were cleared with no apparent effort by the breaker. These are believed to be the heaviest short circuits ever interrupted on any power system in the world."
"It is the purpose of this paper to set forth the broad phases of the problems involved in establishing a telephone and telegraph landline system in a military theater of operations, the manner in which these problems were met, and the results obtained in the North African Theater of Operations. The aspects reviewed are those involving the unification of the theater-wide wire facilities into a single system including maximum integration of civil plant and military installations, with centralized supervisory control of the available resources."
"The increased use of a-c instruments over a frequency range of 25 to 3,000 cycles for aircraft and industrial applications has imposed new requirements on instrument design. It is recognized that the standard type of a-c ammeters and voltmeters normally calibrated for use at a given frequency are subject to errors in indication when used at other frequencies. This paper describes the manner in which one line of a-c ammeters and voltmeters can be compensated to have minimum errors resulting from changes in frequency over a range of 25 to 3,000 cycles. Errors found in the uncompensated and compensated types of instruments with changes in frequency are shown, and a practical means of determining the amount of compensation and its application to ammeters and voltmeters is presented."
"Protection engineers always have desired to obtain a system of ground fault protection that will discriminate and actually trip out only the ground faulted circuit of a complex distribution network. This has been a difficult chore because the magnitude of the ground current often varies so greatly as to be out of the range of the normal protective relay settings. A system is proposed here that not only has proper discrimination, but also operates on very low amounts of ground current with the maximum ground current held to such a low value that practically no harm or damage is done by the ground fault. This development was encouraged by the necessity of joint use of poles by lines of communication circuits and distribution circuits. This method comprises the installation of a small bank of grounding transformers at each of the stations where the lines originate or terminate. With these small ground banks the maximum ground fault current is very small. Adequate relays and systems are used to isolate only the faulted sections of line. The installation of one 11-kv and one 16.5-kv loop will be described. These two systems have had several years of successful operation."
"Increased cost involved in serving electric power to customers, and the aim to lower rates, have accelerated the need for most efficient utilization of existing generating and distribution equipment. The paper describes a method for loading power circuit breakers on a temperature basis for the purpose of taking advantage of their inherent current carrying ability. Several years of practical application of the basic theory has proved entirely satisfactory on various types of electric equipment and has, in many cases, established considerable savings on new investments. While these savings apply to a lesser degree to circuit breakers than to other major power equipment, their application in accordance with temperature, rather than name plate rating, has put the use of new and existing facilities on an equally sound engineering basis."
"AN electronic frequency meter and speed regulator has been developed to measure and hold the speed of a small steam turbine within plus or minus one-half of one per cent of any speed between 10,000 and 100,000 rpm."
"PREVENTION of ice formation on the aircraft windshield presents difficult problems. In addition to optical quality, the thermal and structural characteristics of suitable transparent materials, such as glass and certain plastics, must be given careful consideration."
"THE USE of an inert gas in enclosed electric equipment has increased considerably in recent years. In transformers an inert gas is used in the space provided above the transformer fluid to al-low for its volumetric expansion with temperature rise."
"An 8-channel microwave relay system is described. Known to the Army and Navy as AN/TRC-6, the system uses radio frequencies approaching 5,000 megacycles. At these frequencies, there is a complete absence of static and most manmade interference. The waves are concentrated into a sharp beam and do not travel along the earth much beyond seeing distances. Other systems using the same frequencies can be operated in the near vicinity. The transmitter power is only one four-millionth as great as would be required with nondirectional antennas. The distance between sets is limited but by using intermediate repeaters communications are extended readily to longer distances. Short pulses of microwave power carry the intelligence of the eight messages utilizing pulse position modulation to modulate the pulses and time division to multiplex the channels. The eight message circuits which each AN/TRC-6 system provides are high-grade telephone circuits and can be used for signaling, dialing, facsimile, picture transmission, or multichannel voice frequency telegraph. Two-way voice transmission over radio links totaling 1,600 miles, and one-way over 3,200 miles have been accomplished successfully in demonstrations."
"Because of the violent maneuvering possibilities in modern aircraft, the usefulness of azimuth indicators in avigation marine navigational applications. New problems in direction indicating instruments therefore have been introduced, such as the perplexing problem of obtaining indication after loops or rolls. Azimuth indicating systems now used in aircraft have indicating a completely satisfactory solution to such problems. This paper summarizes the progress from the direct reading compasses to monitored gyroscopes and concentrates on the unique problems in aircraft where space limitations, reliability, and operation at all altitudes are important. It indicates how azimuth indicators and auto pilot controls close to the ideal are obtainable by the use of special features including a novel ``nontumbling'' mechanism and an electromagnetic type of gimbal adjusting device."
"An a preceding paper,' an attempt was made to present a design point of view, indicating that the criterion for a design method is its direct ability to provide the construction data whereby desired machine specifications are met."
"The elaborate electric systems in modern long-range aircraft have made accuracy of load analysis more important than ever before. A more precise evaluation of the adequacy of proposed generating equipment can be made by averaging expected loads over several different periods which are chosen on the basis of the generators' thermal characteristics. These averages are compared graphically with curves which show the maximum overloads generators can tolerate without damage."
"This paper briefly describes a series of field tests made on the power line carrier current telephone system of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, covering both amplitude and frequency modulated equipment. A discussion of various tests and test results is given, with a comparison of performance of the amplitude and frequency modulated equipment."
"A discussion of a method for presenting the fundamental relations of the science of electricity and magnetism is presented including a brief description of the various absolute unit systems. Most of the fundamental relations of electricity and magnetism are presented in general form. The relations are called general in the sense that they are complete and correct for use with any consistent unrationalized unit system. The relations are presented in a logical and rigorous sequence, that is, the basis of each relation is found in the preceding relations."
"BEHIND THE SCENES of the rapid development of aeronautics in this country during recent years are the aeronautical research laboratories."
"AN electric power system operation numerous problems are encountered in analyzing the results of short circuits and in the physical location of the trouble."
"The frequency performance of small thyratrons is investigated by supplying anode voltage from a variable frequency electronic generator of 1,400 watts output capacity. At high audio frequencies there is a departure from the 60-cycle-per-second performance; the grid control characteristic resolves itself into two characteristics: a starting characteristic and an extinguishing characteristic. The starting characteristic is shown to be a function of grid-anode capacitance and grid resistance. The extinguishing characteristic is determined by deionization effects and so is a function of frequency, grid resistance, anode current, tube geometry, and gas pressure."
"THERE has been a demand for a flexible cable to carry single phase current for induction heating at frequencies up to 10 kc. Tests on an interleaved type of cable, used widely in portable spot welding, indicate its usefulness in carrying rethousands of amperes at potentials under 1,000 volts at the higher frequencies."
"MOST MEN associated with resistance welding machines are conscious of the fact that the introduction of magnetic material into the throat of such equipment causes a reduction of the welding current."
"A brief resume is given of the factors which necessitated the development of thoroughly practicable and reliable telemetering equipment for dynamic testing of high-speed aircraft in flight. An outline of a radio telemetering system is presented which was developed under contract and accepted as suitable for structural flight testing by the United States Navy Bureau of Aeronautics in April 1945. Emphasis is placed upon the electric system and circuits which are of most interest to Institute members. These include the stabilized amplitude modulated subcarrier oscillators, the master amplifier, the air-borne regulated power supply, the frequency modulated transmitter, the automatic frequency controlled frequency modulated receiver, the heterodyne analyzer, and the mobile receiving station."
"Sustained oscillations exhibiting many of the properties of free oscillations are found in saturable reactor circuits under appropriate conditions. The frequencies of such oscillations are classified in relation to that of the driving source as 1. Incommensurable. 2. Subharmonic, and multiples thereof. 3. Harmonic. General properties of the oscillations classified are elucidated by reference to an analysis of R. V. L. Hartley's, dating back to 1917. In part I a comparatively simple form of analysis is used to demonstrate the development of negative resistance by what is essentially a modulation process. Applications are then made to the three classes of oscillations listed. Some of the simplifying assumptions of part I are removed in part II to approximate practical conditions more closey for the evaluation of a specific product, the third subharmonic. Quantities evaluated over wide ranges of the variables involved include the impedance of the non-linear coil to the subharmonic, the subharmonic amplitude, its stability, and the conditions required for starting and maintaining the oscillation. Experimental data are found in general agreement with the results of computation."
"THE use of the concept of time constants in the analysis of a-c rotating electric machine transients is well known. It is also well known that the short-circuit time constants of machines running at normal speed are not at all like those of the same machines at rest."
"Equations are presented whereby the authors' previous paper1 is extended to the design of coils for heating magnetic loads, where the load remains in a fixed position relative to the coil during the heat. In heating magnetic materials, there is considerable variation in impedance of the coil circuit as the load temperature changes. The present paper first develops certain general principles by which a variable impedance circuit may be designed to absorb a predetermined maximum power, on the basis of constants determining the maximum and minimum impedance. Methods then are given by which these constants may be calculated for carbon steel loads of types SAE 1015 to SAE 1045, or their equivalent. In practice, these methods apply to most through heating and some surface heating applications. The accuracy of calculations is substantiated experimentally."
"IN 1937 Arnold' published an analytic procedure enabling the designer of a single-phase 2-conductor bus to determine combinations of conductor spacing and cross section that render proximity and skin effects (a-c resistance, eddy-current losses, and current density distortion) a minimum. For explicit details the reader is referred to Arnold's paper. "
"THE large number of similar high-capacity hydroelectric generating units in the power plants of the Saguenay system have afforded an unusual opportunity to effect improvements in efficiency, reliability, and output of such units."
"Some recent developments have emphasized the need for information concerning the temperature at which dielectrics can be operated without electrical breakdown. This paper deals primarily with porcelain, but some data are included on the performance of steatite. glass, and zircon compositions. Data are presented on the variation in resistivity of the materials with varying temperature and also with varying voltage gradient. From the temperature-resistivity curves a method is developed for approximating the combination of temperature and voltage gradient which will result in electrical failure. Supporting data in the form of breakdown tests, made at various temperatures, are included. These tests include practical insulator forms as well as prepared test specimens."
"Design policies have been developed and established during the building and operating of 14 major hydroelectric generating stations since 1934. Turbines, governors, generators, transformers, switchgear, and other major equipment have been selected generally in accordance with normal manufacturers' designs except in specific cases where operating experience has indicated a definite need for improvement. Many of the improvements subsequently have become standardized by the manufacturers. Switching, bussing, control, relaying, wiring, piping, auxiliary equipment, and other station features have been developed by the Tennessee Valley Authority, using manufacturers' standard components as far as possible. The bases for selection of equipment and for development of station designs undoubtedly are applicable to other hydroelectric projects."
"THE TESTING of airplane scale models in wind tunnels has brought about a demand for variable frequency a-c power for controlling the speed of power model motors used to drive the propellers of the plane models."
"AN EXCITATION SYSTEM consists essentially of an exciter and means for its regulation. Originally, manual control of voltage was used widely."
"THE DETECTION of small leaks in large all-metal vacuum systems has long been a troublesome manufacturing problem for which there was no satisfactory."
"This paper presents formulas, in terms of easily evaluated coefficients, for the armature current, field current, and torque of d-c machines on short circuit. The method of the paper makes it unnecessary to calculate the mutual inductance between the armature and field windings. Heretofore, this mutual inductance (between, two windings which normally are in quadrature with each other) has made it exceedingly difficult to calculate current and torque on short circuit. Under short-circuit conditions, the armature and field windings are not, in effect, in quadrature with one another and are mutually inductive partly because of saturation of the flux path at one side of the poles and partly because of commutation phenomena. These circumstances create difficulties uniquely overcome in the paper. A basic feature of the paper is the expression for the relation between flux, armature amperes, and field amperes. Calculations cannot be made without establishing this relationship (plotted for a specific case in Figure 9) and a simple expression for it has not been presented before to the author's knowledge. Another important feature, also believed to be new, is the development of an expression for the resistance to current flow created by the reactance voltage of the alternating current in the armature winding. A third feature is a formula for estimating the time constant of the armature circuit using an average coefficient of inductance. The results are applied to several machines and the calculated performance compared with test data."
"In part I, published in 1938,1 the principal question considered was the effect of ventilating coils on temperature limits for ground faults greater than one minute, for which it was assumed that 160 degrees centigrade based on all heat stored in copper was the correct limit. Since 1938 considerable new data have been obtained. This paper presents the new data and shows that: 1. For heating periods of one minute or less, practically all aging of insulation occurs during the cooling period. It is shown that temperature limits can be based on the rate of cooling rather than on the heating period. 2. In the heating-up period of one minute or less, 25 to 45 per cent of the loss is dissipated from the copper to the insulation and oil. Formulas are developed for calculating the temperatures during the heating and cooling periods. 3. Temperature limits above 160 degrees centigrade for one minute are permissible for both non-ventilated and ventilated coils, being approximately 200 degrees centigrade for windings which cool sufficiently rapidly."
"THE renewed attention now being given to transmission of power from hydroelectric long distances from their load areas requires a re-evaluation of some of the factors affecting power system stability."
"HISTORY tells us that measurement has been one of the principal foundations mankind has been based. "
"SIMPLICITY is of paramount importance protective relay circuits. These circuits are called upon to operate so infrequently that they should be more reliable than the apparatus or lines they protect."
"This paper is the result of a differential analyzer study of the starting characteristics of 2-phase induction motors. The prototype of the motors investigated is the small 2-phase machine commonly used in closed cycle control systems. The performance equations of the induction motor are solved, and summary curves based upon the conclusions reached are presented in a form useful to motor designers. No published data of this type have come to the attention of the authors. It is hoped that the results herein reported can be utilized in the design of better motors for servo applications."
"THE PHYSICAL THEORY of the characteristic oscillations of a high-voltage winding as a primary, that is, when the voltage disturbances are impressed directly across its terminals, is now well known."
"DURING the past 15 years and particularly in the past ten years, there have been many major developments in excitation idensers and generators."
"POWER fuses are used at many locations on transmission and industrial power systems to insure the prompt interruption of serious short-circuit currents."
"THIS PAPER is part of an analytical study conducted for the purpose of establishing a sound fundamental interpretation of observed performance characteristics of high interrupting-capacity power fuses of the current-limiting type."
"THE ANALYZER BOARDS available at various points in the United States have afforded welcome relief from the tedious calculations which are ordinarily necessary in determining the distribution of load and reactive component in electric power networks."
"THE STRIDES achieved since the early thirties in the field of system-insulation rationalization are well known in recent technical literature and need not be reviewed here."
"RECIPROCATING steam, Diesel-electric and electric locomotives compete today for the main-line freight and passenger assignments of Pacific North west railways."
"A DISTINCTION is made between \"rural electrification\" and \"electroagriculture,\" the former being the art and the business of bringing electric service to the rural area and to the individual consumer in that area, the latter being the art and the business of using electric power for farming."
"This paper describes the development of low frequency and self-synchronous electric drive equipment for fatigue life testing machines. These test machines simulate the vibrating loads that result from reciprocating engines, variable air loads, and so forth. The self-synchronous feature is important because the inherent high mechanical Q of the system amplifies some 10 to 50 watts of drive power into 2,000 to 5,000 pounds of vibrating load at frequencies from 7 to 40 cycles per second. Mechanically driven types lack sufficient speed stability to maintain resonance, and this results in poor control of the specimen test load. The power requirements for large loads at high speeds are excessive. An experimental 5,000-pound machine with self-excited electromagnetic drive is described. This electric drive is low in both original and maintenance costs. The specimen load is controlled as simply as the volume on a radio receiver. A 100,000-pound machine is nearing completion and is discussed briefly."
"Prior to the war a compandor was developed for general use on telephone circuits of the Bell System. This equipment provides power range compression at the transmitting end and power range expansion at the receiving end of a telephone channel. The resulting crosstalk and noise reductions of about 25 decibels are large enough to make useful circuits out of channels which otherwise would be unworkable. This paper considers engineering problems in the application of compandors and describes the circuit principles involved in the equipment."
"THE importance of the effects of the transient recovery voltage upon the difficulty of arc interruption in circuit breakers has been recognized for a number of years."
"SYNCHRONOUS operation of synchronous machines has been the subject of numerous articles in the technical literature, for example, the articles  of Fechheimer, Hay and Mowdawalla, Putman, Park, Linville, Lauder"
"SERIES capacitors have been recognized for some time as a means of increasing the amount of power transmitted over a long transmission line and as a means of increasing the distance that alternating-current power can be transmitted economically."
"Presented at the AlEE Southern District meeting, Asheville, N. C., May 14-:16, 1946, and published in AlEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 436-41."
"The Board of Directors (BoD) of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE) presents herewith to the membership its 62nd annual report, for the fiscal year ending 30 April 1946. It includes a general balance sheet and other statements, showing the financial condition of the Institute at the close of the fiscal year, and a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in Electrical Engineering."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"A method of measuring ignition voltages with a cathode-ray oscillograph is described. Magneto and spark-plug voltage oscillograms covering several consecutive firing pulses were taken on a complete aircraft magneto ignition system under several engine operating conditions. Oscillograms taken with spark plugs firing in air show differences when compared with engine tests. An improved electronic oscillograph has been developed which is well adapted for ignition measurements."
"Fundamental problems involved in the cooling and rating of aircraft electric machinery at medium and high altitudes are discussed in this paper, primarily to assist users in the application of such equipment, and to assist builders in designing equipment to meet the requirements. In addition flight tests are reported which confirm in part the blast-tube theory developed in a previous paper. For blast-cooled generators, an equation has been developed to show the maximum permissible output in terms of entering-air temperature and density, ramming-head pressure, and winding temperature For motors curves of total winding temperature at rated load have been plotted as a function of altitude; these curves were plotted for selected values of sea-level temperature rise. Specific conclusions are drawn as to: 1. Permissible generator output as a function of altitude and sea-level rise. 2. Limiting sea-level temperature rises for motors on the basis of constant or reduced life at altitude. This paper presents a qualitative method of analysis rather than a definitive solution of the problems involved."
"This paper describes the application of the transient analyzer to the solution of servomechanism problems by the electrical-mechanical analogy method. The analogies for angular position servomechanisms are developed in detail together with the fundamental concepts by which the systems can be defined in terms of dimensionless parameters. This permits the results to be given in dimensionless form suitable for general application. Typical solutions of representative systems are given in the form of transient response curves. These show the response characteristics for suddenly applied constant velocity and sinusoidal motion. Also shown are the effects of varying the controlling parameters of the system including the stiffness constant, one, two, and three time delays, and methods of producing system stability including negative RC feedback and anticipatory control. A method is developed for setting up the analogy for a specific system on the transient analyzer by a suitable change in time and impedance bases."
"A method for investigating the starting characteristics of an arc in d-c arc welding was developed and equipment was designed and built to simulate the behavior of an operator in starting such an arc. This testing equipment was used to compare the arc striking ability and the arc freezing tendency of an electrode when used with various types of welding generators. It was found that the determining factor is the electrode contact duration, that is, the time during which the operator leaves electrode and work in contact when he attempts to start an arc. Generators, to be satisfactory, should permit at least 40 milliseconds contact duration. Where the permissible contact duration between work and electrode is less than 40 milliseconds, only experienced welders are able to start an arc. Less trained men freeze the electrode to the work piece in a large percentage of their attempts. Five generators of different design were tested with the apparatus. Oscillograms of the current surge during the contact period were taken and the freezing point marked on the curves. It was found that the location of the freezing point depends on the shape of the current surge. Characteristics of a welding generator as developed in these tests which yield good striking and nonfreezing results are not contradictory to good general welding characteristics."
"Volt-ampere characteristics of 60-cycle arcs in still air with lengths and currents such as occur in power systems have been investigated under laboratory conditions. The arcs varied in peak current from 68 to 21,750 amperes and in length from 1/8 to 48 inches. Typical oscillograms and volt-ampere curves of these tests are presented. The voltage gradient in the arc is affected very little by current magnitude. Through-out the entire range all gradients remained between 21.5 and 50 volts per inch, with 35 per cent of all values in a 5 volt per inch interval having an average value of 34 volts per inch. The increase in apparent gradient due to voltage drop at the electrodes was found to be negligible where the arc length exceeds several feet. The decrease in short-circuit current of a power system through a series arc as compared with that for the same system with a metallic short circuit has been investigated. Data are presented showing the actual reductions observed for various conditions of circuit voltage and impedance."
"The Rototrol has been applied in considerable numbers to a wide variety of industrial applications. It has met adequately the need for a simple and reliable regulator which is capable of withstanding the rigors of general industrial usage and which is sufficiently elemental in operation that it can be understood by nontechnical maintenance personnel. It has been accepted enthusiastically by industry, and applications in both existing and new fields are increasing rapidly. This paper discusses the fundamental theory of the Rototrol, the application of the circuits most commonly used, and cites operating results for typical installations."
"The continuous process of coating fabrics with rubber, such as is used in tire manufacturing, involves several individual machines that present operating problems not met successfully by mechanical drives. A new co-ordinated electric drive has been developed which does meet these requirements using amplidyne, and also electronic, control. It is expected that quality and production will be improved by this equipment. The means employed may be applied successfully to other industries."
"A new crystal channel filter for use in broad band carrier telephone systems is described. It requires less than two-thirds as much mounting space as the earlier design and savings in materials and manufacturing effort are realized. These savings were made possible by assembling the four crystal units in one lattice-type filter section rather than two, resulting in a reduction in the number of component coils and capacitors."
"A series capacitor is best protected from overvoltage during fault by a gap having low arc drop with no tendency to cut off. In this manner the capacitor is not subjected to repetitive voltage peaks during fault, and high current oscillations in the circuit formed by the capacitor and gap are minimized. A special design of graphite gap with self-centering arc characteristics is described. A new type of by-pass switch is also described for automatically by-passing the gap and series capacitor and removing the by-pass after the fault has cleared. The switch shown provides an inherent time delay on closing thus allowing time for the capacitor to discharge through the gap and avoid damage to the switch contacts. The switch also provides time delay on reopening thus eliminating the necessity for a holding means which has been a problem always with magnetic contactors in this application. The motive power for closing the switch is derived from a sealed bellows using high resistance metal and containing a volatile liquid. The passage of current through the bellows changes the vapor pressure and furnishes the forces required to operate the switch. A device of this type is not subject to damage by steep wave front surges associated with the discharge of the capacitor through the protective gap, nor is it damaged by intermittent line faults."
"The equipment described is able to show on the screen of an oscilloscope the cyclic hysteresis loop of a sample of magnetic-recording wire a little over one inch long and 0.004 inch in diameter. Results obtained with the equipment in studying recording wires are given. A discussion is included of the operation of the equipment, and of possible modifications."
"The memory oscillograph described in this paper is used for obtaining photographic records of randomly occurring electric transients. This instrument differs from other oscillographs of the memory type1,2 in that its operation is completely automatic. Forty sets of oscillograms can be recorded without the aid of an operator. Because of this feature, such an oscillograph may be used for monitoring electrical systems in which sporadic circuit disturbances are to be studied. The unit consists essentially of three cathode-ray tubes with associated power supply, a saw-tooth oscillator to provide the horizontal time axis, amplifiers for the vertical deflection circuits, a beam blanking circuit, and an automatic camera. When the memory oscillograph is in operatioia, the cathode ray tubes are continuously excited. The vertical deflection circuits of the tubes are connected to the voltages to be investigated, and each tube screen carries a cathode-ray pattern characteristic of the voltage applied to its vertical deflection plates. Upon the occurrence of a transient pulse, the camera shutter is released and the electronic beams of the cathode ray tubes are interrupted. The camera then records the persistence of fluorescence, which is characteristic of the material used on the tube screens. In this way a record is obtained of electric events that occurred previous to the opening of the shutter. To insure successful operation, the component parts of the automatic memory oscillograph must be electrically co-ordinated and controlled. The sequence of functions performed by a control circuit for this purpose is described."
"A method is presented to calculate the size of core and windings of a capacitor discharge welding transformer required to supply a given welding current. It is further shown how the resistance and inductance of a certain welder can be determined from oscillograms of the current and voltage. The mathematical derivation of the formulas used is included."
"The application of the AIEE Test Code for Synchronous Machines in field testing of hydroelectric generators is discussed, and the preferred method of making certain tests is indicated, together with reasons for its selection. Methods of making acceptance tests on turbines are outlined in sufficient detail to establish the fundamental theory, and the electrical measurements on the generator required to establish the generator input for the hydraulic test, are listed, with brief reference to the accuracy required, and to means of obtaining it. Rating and other hydraulic tests on hydroelectric units are also described."
"This paper deals with the theory and design of magnetic inertia throat microphones. Especial attention is given to the treatment of sound power and high articulation throat microphones. The sound power microphones described contain a double frequency, undamped vibrating system, while the high articulation microphones have damping introduced, which reduces the low frequency peak with resultant increase in articulation. Wide range frequency response is obtained from the neighborhood of 100 cycles, extending up to 3,000, 4,000, or 5,000 cycles, as may be desired. These microphones have a band pass filter character with a sharp high frequency cutoff. This cutoff is desirable in order to cut out high frequency noises."
"A prerequisite for the successful parallel operation of main engine driven a-c generators is a suitable infinitely variable-ratio transmission and high speed governor to control it. This paper describes the development of such a governor and its successful operation on a developmental two-generator 400-cycle a-c system."
"The preliminary planning necessary to estimate the amount of current to be interrupted on a large network for staged tests under short-circuit conditions is outlined, also the precautions necessary to keep the applied fault from developing into a total system interruption. The circuit breakers under test are identified, various quantities required for record, and the means of obtaining the same are discussed. The results of a number of tests are given as well as a general discussion as to the conditions of the tests and of results obtained."
"A multiple-point potentiometer recorder for thermocouples is described having a slidewire driven to balance by a small induction motor powered from a 6L6 electron tube. The preamplifier gain is sufficient that the conventional input transformer (voltage step-up type) is not required, and thus a high impedance input circuit is made available. This permits the use of small capacitance values in the RC circuits for signal filtering and motor damping. The relation of this to the short balancing time (1.5 seconds) is discussed. Spectroscopy supplied the incentive for the development of two additional but similar recorders. The first of these is a curve-drawing multiple-range microampere recorder with the smallest range 0.5 microampere, and with a balancing time of less than 1.0 second. The second is a multiplerange current-ratio recorder requiring only about 10 microamperes for the reference current."
"Certain defects inherent in the usual design of wire recorder heads are pointed out. Some defects are of a practical nature and one is based on theoretical considerations. An improved design is proposed on which a limited amount of experience has been obtained. A natural modificaton of this design permits level-winding across the record-playback head, thus distributing the war and resulting in a head that is virtually self cleaning."
"Shoran navigational radar is generally credited with being the most precise system of its type devised by man. The history of the conception and development of the principles employed, as as well as a description of the physical make-up of the equipment, are of interest. Recent military declassification permits the exposition of both as set forth in this paper."
"The development of the betatron, which accelerates electrons by magnetic induction making possible the production of higher energy X rays than is practical by the direct application of the accelerating potential, has extended the range of X rays indefinitely, the only limit being the size of the machine. Tests with the betatron have shown that the best energy for medical and radiographic use is 20 mev (million electron volts). The development of this machine from a physics laboratory instrument to an industrial machine is described, as well as the radiographic properties of the X rays produced."
"Power rectifiers have proved themselves as efficient and reliable converters of a-c to d-c power for many industrial applications. They also have been used to a limited extent as exciters for synchronous motors and condensers. This paper discusses the requirements of rectifiers when used to excite large a-c generators and presents the results of tests made to determine performance under various operating conditions. The results cover preliminary tests that were made on a laboratory model in addition to extensive and more complete tests on an electronic exciter now installed in the Springdale generating station of the West Penn Power Company. The electronic exciter was designed to serve eventually as the main exciter for an 81,250-kva 3,600-rpm turbine generator just installed, but it is now supplying excitation to a 47,100-kva 1,800-rpm turbine generator. Switching arrangements are provided for exciting either unit from the electronic exciter or from an existing motor-driven exciter."
"The existence of peak voltages in the windings of many sorts of series transformers and reactors, when abnormal conditions force the flux density above saturation, has been understood in a qualitative manner for many years. This paper will derive means for calculating these voltages for the various combinations of magnetizing force and rate of variation. The close agreement between test and calculation over a wide range of magnetizing forces indicates the accuracy and general applicability of the method."
"The theory and design of a tunable bridge-type narrow-band rejection filter are given for the general case, considering elements with dissipation. Range of adjustment and effect of manufacturing variations are discussed with the help of impedance circle diagrams. Approximate attenuation formulas for various levels of attenuation are derived, and a convenient graphical method of studying performance is suggested. A formula for the effective width of a special arrangement of two filters in tandem is derived."
"The use of pilot-wire relays for protection of power transmission circuits usually requires a reliable pilot channel which is free of any induced potentials Which may cause transient voltages to appear between wires even though they may be of relatively low magnitude. This is particularly true in the case of pilot relays using a sequence network in which a single-phase alternating voltage is applied to the pilot wires. Conventional methods of protection, such as those used on telephone circuits, are not suitable. As a result it frequently has been necessary to install special pilot circuits which are insulated for voltages far in excess of their normal operating voltage to insure reliable operation. This paper describes a method of protection which provides reliable and satisfactory operation of a-c pilot channels through low-voltage telephone-type cable even though the cable may be subject to induced potentials high enough to operate discharge gaps."
"Methods and devices are described for testing microwave radar equipment in the radio frequency range from about 500 megacycles to 25,000 megacycles and at associated video frequencies. In general, the same instruments and techniques are applicable also in testing microwave communication systems."
"The grim uses of radar in war are giving way now to a peacetime role in navigation and obstacle detection. This article discusses the results obtained with military airborne radar as a basis for understanding both the possibilities and the limitations in the application of radar to reduce aviation hazards."
"This paper presents an explanation of the theory and explains the characteristics of an a-c adjustable-speed drive obtained by using a polyphase commutator regulator mechanically coupled to the shaft of a wound-rotor induction motor and electrically connected to its slip rings. The theoretical loci of the system current vectors with respect to the voltage vectors of the induction motor are developed in terms of the constants of the machines and the applied voltage. A method of determining the characteristics of the drive from no-load tests or from design data is presented. The characteristics predicted on these bases are in excellent agreement with those obtained experimentally."
"Ocoee 3, a 1-unit 30,000-kva supervisory-controlled generating station of the Tennessee Valley Authority, has been in operation since April 30, 1943. An underground cable was selected for the control and telemetering channel, and neutralizing transformers were installed to protect against voltage rise resulting from transmission line faults. Instrumentation, controls, and station auxiliaries were designed particularly to safeguard the unattended equipment. Maintenance includes two or three inspections per week. The cost of supervision, operation, and maintenance is as low as $0.101 per 1,000 kilowatt-hours."
"The primary object of the work described here was to determine what properties of the tape and associated magnetic elements are responsible for the noise and signal output levels of magnetic recordings and, if possible, to display in specific equations the pertinent relationships connecting noise and signal levels with the physical properties of the tape and polepieces. In the course of the study, methods appeared for decreasing the noise and increasing the useful signal reproduced from magnetic tape. These methods and some of the use that Bell Telephone Laboratories and Western Electric have made of them are mentioned in the discussion. While some of the work described in this paper has implications for more than one type of magnetic recording process, perpendicular recording on tape1 is the actual subject matter dealt with. In every case discussed, the record medium was 0.050 inch wide and 0.0022 inch thick. Except where otherwise noted, a chrome-steel tape was used at a speed of 16 inches per second."
"The experience of the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois with metal-clad switchgear has been outstanding, both from the standpoint of reliability of operation and safety to personnel, two of the principal objectives sought by the engineers of the company when they pioneered this type of equipment. This equipment has been applicable not only to the voltage classes up to and including 15,000 volts, but also in the 33,000-volt class, of which the company has seven major installations which have been in service from 13 to 16 years. This report of experience with 33-kv metal-clad switchgear is offered as proof that development and use should be resumed and continued in what is undoubtedly a fertile field for the application of principles which are now generally accepted. It is not a detailed discussion of the design and construction of metal-clad equipment, but rather a factual record of progress already made and proved by 13 years of operating experience. Conclusions drawn from this report are that the main objectives sought after in the development of metal-clad type of switchgear have been obtained satisfactorily. Experience has demonstrated clearly its outstanding operating reliability as compared with the conventional open type, and its perfect safety record for operating and maintenance personnel has been made possible by the inherent safety features which are practical only in metal-clad equipment."
"With the remarkable expansion of induction heating applications during recent years, a growing number of persons is being involved in the design and operation of induction heating equipment. While the general principle of induction heating is obvious to most, the concepts of certain important peculiarities such as skin effect, including its bearing on the intensity of heat generation, are not as widely understood. One reason for this state lies in the classic approach by partial differential equations1,2 involving operations with which many engineers interested in induction heating are not familiar. A previous paper by the author offered a new approach for the analysis of the induction heating effect by using concepts commonly applied to a-c engineering and not involving differential equations.3 A limitation of that paper consisted in the assumption that the radius of the charge will be very large in comparison with the so-called depth of penetration. It is the object of this paper to cast off this limitation and hence provide an analysis which is valid for any size of the radius of the charge and the depth of penetration. The generated heat is expressed in terms of rapidly converging series. The analysis is applied finally to the case where the charge is subdivided into a number of cylindrical rods. It is shown that for one certain radius of the individual rods, the inductor efficiency reaches a maximum."
"Power circuit breakers for voltage services of 2,300 volts and above use either of two basic principles to complete circuit interruption. The more familiar types, oil breakers or compressed air breakers, complete their operation by maintaining a low resistance arc until the final current zero where interruption is completed. Magnetic air circuit breakers establish a high resistance arc prior to circuit interruptions which modifies the circuit constants before recovery voltage is established. The ``Magne-blast'' breaker falls in this second class of breakers. The treatment of the arc in this breaker to obtain a high are resistance is explained in some detail. Also, design practices and operating characteristics of the final magnetic type breaker are reviewed."
"The causes of dielectric loss in insulating oils and the means to reduce it to a minimum have always been important in high voltage engineering. In this study the relationships between the amount of impurities, which furnish a source of free ions in an oil, and the viscosity, which influences the mobility of the ions, on the one hand and the dielectric loss on the other are investigated. The results present some definite relationships between them and point out that in two oils of the same ``electrical purity,'' the one with higher viscosity will have lower dielectric loss."
"This paper describes a new timing relay for controlling relaying time on automatically reclosed circuit breakers on which inverse-time overcurrent relays are supplemented by instantaneous overcurrent relays. This device incorporates the advantages of instantaneous circuit breaker opening on the first, and in some cases the second, tripout to clear transient faults, and inverse-time opening on subsequent tripouts to obtain co-ordination with branch or sectionalizing fuses. It was designed for universal application on feeder circuits of the Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company system. Certain features which provide for optimum service reliability were incorporated in the design."
"Operating experineces and information gained over a period of years from the operation of a large group of mercury arc rectifiers have shown that, while rectifiers provide a very economical means of converting from a-c to d-c power, they are not entirely trouble free. The principal operating difficulty has been the seemingly inherent tendency for a rectifier to arc-back. This peculiarity has challenged both the designer and operator since it has been found that both contribute toward the solution. The present paper presents the features which have been found advisable for the operator to observe and control in order to keep the occurrences of arc-back at a minimum."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a method developed for determining the location of ground faults on an extensive 140-kv grounded neutral transmission system. This method applies particularly to ground faults in a network of two or more parallel lines and is based on a comparison of the magnitude of ground currents in the faulted circuit and in the unfaulted circuits. Since the relative distribution of ground fault current in a network depends only on the zero sequence impedance of the system, an analysis of ground faults by comparison is independent of generation, fault resistance, or whether one or two phases are involved to ground. The paper also describes the use of ground fault current curves in determining the critical conditions for relay selectivity and summarizes the results of five years of satosfactory experience with automatic oscillographs used in the analysis of faults and relay operations on the system."
"A modern Diesel-electric powered drilling equipment for drilling oil wells consists of several internal combustion engines driving d-c generators, which supply adjustable voltage power to the several d-c motors driving the various motions. This paper gives a description of the functions performed by the draw works, mud pumps, rotary table, and coring reel, and a typical arrangement of apparatus or elementary power diagram showing the main d-c circuits with the arrangement of drill-hoist contactors and manual transfer switches. In addition, there are related the general scheme of operation, strictly from the driller's point of view, without the details of how these functions are accomplished; the operating principles of the electrohydraulic governor that make this scheme of operation possible; as well as the various control features provided by the amplidyne excitation of the main generators. The electrohydraulic governor, a war development, is applied for the first time to Diesel-electric drilling rig equipment. This governor gives to the engines a degree of protection never before attained, by preventing the engine from being overloaded. The governor also permits running the engines at the lowest speeds consistent with the desired rig motion and not at full rated speed at all times as in the past. The electrohydraulic governor provides for engine paralleling without the driller having to pay any attention to the engine throttles."
"This paper presents an extension of the conventional method of calculating speed-torque curves for d-c series motors used with dynamic braking controllers, which permits determination of the stability limit with overhauling loads such as occur on crane hoists. It is shown that such stability limit can be increased by the addition of series resistance."
"Single-anode pumped-type mercury-arc-rectifier tubes have been established in the 300-, 600-, and 900-volt field in the past few years, and as a result they have become the most important type of equipment for large power conversion at these voltages. The ignitron was the major development which brought about the change from multianode to single anode tubes in this low voltage-field.1 Recently sealed ignitrons have been developed for very high voltages and lower currents.2 This paper describes high voltage pumped ignitrons which have been made available for power conversion in the 3,000-to 4,000-volt range. The major application for mercury arc rectifiers in this voltage range is for railroad service. Therefore, the requirements for railroad loading have been given special consideration in the design of the high voltage ignitron. Both rectifier and inverter characteristics were desired in one unit so that a maximum of flexibility could be obtained. The characteristics of combined rectifier and inverter operation are described. Accepted fundamental rectifier and inverter relationships are presented, and curves are included to aid in determining operating characteristics. The design and tests which led to the successful development of the high voltage pumped ignitron are discussed. Pumped ignitrons are compared with sealed ignitrons for high voltage applications so that the field of each can be better defined."
"Incorporated in the modern double-reduction motor and gear unit are many new design features which have made it an outstanding motor for the past five years. Oil lubrication is provided for all gearing and bearings in the oil-tight double-reduction gear unit. Special design constants, which have been developed as a result of many years of experience with high-speed motors, are used. Self-ventilation is successful on a high-speed motor and simplifies locomotive design. Specially insulated field coils provide for good heat transfcr from the coils to steel and air. A small motor with a high-speed armature results in low copper loss and high efficiency at high tractive effort. A steep speed curve with a large amount of field shunting makes it possible to use all motors connected permanently in parallel. The motor is small, compact, aud lightweight, which has made possible its use oil a wide range of locomotives. Here is a small motor doing a big job."
"A method, using reduced-scale model installations, is developed for the laboratory determination of cable temperatures obtaining in the field. The theory of the method is given, followed by the description of three sets of experiments conducted to show the feasibility of the method. One set of experiments is concerned with a single-conductor cable buried directly in the soil of the model setup, and temperatures obtained are compared with computed values. Another set is concerned with a single-conductor cable in a model duct bank, and sheath and duct temperatures obtained are compared with those of field determinations in an actual field installation. The third set is concerned with a model three-conductor cable in a duct bank, and conductor-sheath temperature differentials are compared with field data. All tests show that the accuracy of the method is sufficient for practical purposes."
"When using a uniform ladder network to simulate a smooth transmission line, the possibility is considered of deriving a termination which would be intermediate between the usual mid-shunt and mid-series types and which would have advantages over the latter. It is found that a new termination is possible which gives some improvement throughout a limited frequency range. For the dissipationless case, the range corresponds to a line of less than a quarter wave length. The improvements attainable are of the order of a few per cent and become less significant the greater the number of network sections. Thus, although the formula for the new termination and the estimates of the results which it will accomplish are given for any number of sections, the new termination is of most practical value for circuits of few sections. In arriving at this termination, consideration is given to the variation of each of the elements of the pair on each end; but of these two, the end element is the only one whose variation yields an improvement. For the frequency range for which the modified circuit is an improvement, the distinction between the two original types of termination largely is lost, the modified midshunt and modified mid-series terminations being almost identical. Beyond this range there is a difference between them, and the corresponding original and new networks are nearly equivalent. A possible application of the results is suggested in which the simulation of a smooth line is not involved."
"This paper illustrates the advantages of the frequency response approach to the analysis of automatic control systems, as contrasted to the analytic solution of transient responses. At the same time the equivalence of information available from the two approaches is demonstrated. A numerical example is given based upon a torque amplifier using a motor-generator type control."
"Spectacular advances in airplane design during the past decade have created an increasing demand for additional testing facilities with which to obtain those data essential to successful design. To answer partially this demand and to facilitate more basic aerodynamic research on the subject of compressibility effects experienced in high speed flight, several new wind tunnels were constructed during this same period. These tunnels vary widely in size and in requirements for air density and air speed in the tunnel working section. Correspondingly, the horsepower output requirements for their main fan drive motors vary widely. But in all cases close speed regulation at preselected speed values over a wide range is essential to good test results. Most modern tunnels also incorporate suitable electric equipment for the operation of powered models and for the calibration of motors used in these models. This paper describes the Cornell variable density wind tunnel from the viewpoint of electrical engineers and discusses principles governing the selection of electric equipment for wind tunnels."
"This paper discusses lethal electric currents and their accompanying physiological effects, and interprets the data of a previous paper4 in accordance with an original method of analysis found useful by the author in his own investigations of let-go currents. The present analysis concerns itself with threshold currents likely to produce instantaneous electrocution in one-half per cent of a large groud of normal men. Although the conclusions are derived from tests made on animals, it is believed that the results may be indicative of what might be expected to occur in man. The majority of the work is based on experiments made at 60 cycles with shock durations of 0.03 to 3.0 seconds. Predictions of lethal currents for both direct current and capacitor discharges, while more speculative because of the limited data available, are included because of their importance due to the greatly increased use of direct current and electronic equipment."
"Experience has shown that multiple electrical failures may occur simultaneously in an industrial plant as the result of an initial breakdown of insulation causing high transient voltages. Available methods of surge protection to guard against insulation breakdown and neutral grounding to prevent high transient voltages are presented. Consideration is given to the merits and limitations of these methods when applied to industrial plants."
"The main results of a study of the various phenomena which take place during the interruption of currents in high vacuum are given. The experimental results obtained lead to a theory of the basic mechanism affecting switching in high vacuum. With a proper design of the switch, a constant working pressure can be obtained which represents an equilibrium between gases and vapors evolving from the electrodes and a pumping action based on the sputtering of cathode material. A detailed study is made of the factors determining the loss of electrode material because of switching. The most essential design features of a vacuum switch are discussed briefly."
"The considerations involved in the design of an automatic synchronous condenser control are discussed in this paper with an aim toward helping the designer and user of synchronous condenser equipment obtain modern and complete facilities in his design. A typical push-button-operated control for a large synchronous condenser is described and the diagrams involved are shown. The description includes a detailed resume of starting sequence, protective device operation, and automatic control of voltage and load. Emphasis is put on the adaptability of push-button control to full automatic operation or remote operation by direct or supervisory control."
"The proper register for multi-color printing, that is the printing of as many as five colors on top of one another to the required accuracy of a few thousandths of an inch, has been successfully solved by the use of phototubes and associated electronic equipment. In the system described, the electronic portion extends all the way from the phototubes to the thyratrons which supply the required current to energize the correcting motor armature in the proper direction and at the speed for correct register. A typical installation is shown in Figure 1."
"Discussion of paper 46-105, an AlEE committee report, presented at the AlEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 417-36."
"Discussion and closure of paper 46-169, an AIEE committee report, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 746-51."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Not until man learned to organize his efforts was he able to attain mastery over nature to any significant degree and so, as a result, most of his accomplishments have been confined to the past three centuries. With this example before him the engineer, also, has become interested in organization, but only in his particular specialized field. If engineers are to assume a role of leadership in the industrial world there must be a new unity among members of the profession as a whole, a unity which the Institute, as largest of the national engineering bodies, has a special obligation to cultivate."
"The result of a study made immediately following the fall of Japan and recently made available for public information, this 2part report is designed to present a quick over-all evaluation of Japanese radar, its history and development. As the Japanese armyandnavy developed their radar equipment independently of each other, Part I of this article concentrates on the army's contributions."
"In the years prior to the 20th century the names of American physicists, with two or three notable exceptions, were conspicuous by their absence from any roster of world-acclaimed scientists. The discovery of the X ray in 1895, however, marked the beginning of a new epoch in physics and during the succeeding 50 years Americans gradually attained eminence in this field. Today, as a result of the developments coming out of the United States during World War II, as well as the war's disastrous effect on scientific progress in other countries, at least three-fifths of all the physics activity in the world is centered in the United States."
"A process of polishing metals by electrolytic treatment now has been adapted for application to silver. In this method of electroplating in reverse a current opposite in direction to that employed for ordinary plating removes metal preferentially from the high spots to produce a mirror-smooth surface. It replaces manual and mechanical buffing."
"With the increasing need for accurate computation occasioned by the use of numerical analysis in many scientific developments, as well as by the increased accuracy of physical measurement, more and more time and effort must be devoted to computational labor which is, moreover, always susceptible to human fallibility. As a step toward remedying the situation, the automatic sequence controlled calculator will carry out any selected sequence of the five fundamental operations of arithmetic (addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and reference to tables of previously computed results) under completely automatic control. Part I of a 3-part article describes the mechanism and explains its function in addition and subtraction."
"War experience brought to the fore the desirability of statistical quality control and today an increasing number of industrial concerns are utilizing this method of improving the processes of manufacture. However, many firms, notably smaller establishments, still are not employing quality reports when they could do so to advantage. This article emphasizes the necessity of making management quality-control conscious and cites actual cases to prove its point."
"As a matter to which some special attention should be given during the 63rd year of our AIEE activities, I wish to bring to your attention the problem of the industrial electrical engineer, a problem with which I have been struggling for some 30 years. The Institute has done a great deal for the industrial electrical engineer, but our field of industrial activity has expanded so greatly that we now need to make special efforts to cover that field adequately. Rather than to default in our opportunity, and allow the industrial electrical engineers to branch out into a separate organization, as others have done in the past, let us do something now to serve the needs of this particular group. The AIEE local Sections are in the best position to do something about this matter. They are close to the industrial areas, and I believe that they could determine very readily the peculiar problems, needs, and interests of the industrial groups."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The program of weekly conferences for returning veterans instituted by the New York Section in December 1945 aroused a great deal of interest at the conference on student activities held in Detroit, June 27."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the meeting registration desk."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"As part of his efforts to give needed publicity to the unique research facilities latent in the Engineering Societies Library in New York, N. Y., Ralph H. Phelps, acting director of the library, addressed the meeting of officers, delegates, and members at the AIEE summer convention in Detroit. He stressed the fact that, as the foremost engineering library in the United States, its services are available to engineers throughout the United States, whether or not they are members of a Founder Society, and whether or not they can visit the library."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"AN excellent way to describe a servomechanism is to picture it as a device which acts with power on the difference, or error, between a desired quantity and an actual quantity. It acts in such a way as, 1. To make the error approximate zero in the steady state. 2. To limit peak errors and the error-time integral when the output quantity is following a typical random input quantity. 3. To recover from sudden disturbances with adequate speed of response and degree of stability."
"When using a uniform ladder network to simulate a smooth transmission line, the possibility is considered of deriving a termination which would be intermediate between the usual mid-shunt and mid-series types and which would have advantages over the latter. It is found that a new termination is possible which gives some improvement throughout a limited frequency range. For the dissipationless case, the range corresponds to a line of less than a quarter wave length. The improvements attainable are of the order of a few per cent and become less significant the greater the number of network sections. Thus, although the formula for the new termination and the estimates of the results which it will accomplish are given for any number of sections, the new termination is of most practical value for circuits of few sections. In arriving at this termination, consideration is given to the variation of each of the elements of the pair on each end; but of these two, the end element is the only one whose variation yields an improvement. For the frequency range for which the modified circuit is an improvement, the distinction between the two original types of termination largely is lost, the modified midshunt and modified mid-series terminations being almost identical. Beyond this range there is a difference between them, and the corresponding original and new networks are nearly equivalent. A possible application of the results is suggested in which the simulation of a smooth line is not involved."
"THE USE of geometric mean distance for calculating reactance of parallel conductors is increasing, so much so that the self geometric mean distance often is tabulated in catalogs of heavy conductors along with other characteristics, such as resistance, current capacity, and weight."
"This paper illustrates the advantages of the frequency response approach to the analysis of automatic control systems, as contrasted to the analytic solution of transient responses. At the same time the equivalence of information available from the two approaches is demonstrated. A numerical example is given based upon a torque amplifier using a motor-generator type control."
"IT is now well known that most of the radar sets used in the past war function by transmitting a pulse and measuring the time necessary for the signal to reach the target and the echo to return. Of particular interest is the problem of finding how much power must be transmitted so that the echo will be of sufficient strength to be detected satisfactorily by the radar receiver. When dealing with microwave equipment and the consequent line-of-sight transmission paths, the problem can be solved by geometric means."
"THE heavy drain that the war has imposed on the forests of America, the backlog of pole requirements that has been built up over the war period, and the present labor shortage have made it impracticable to obtain a sufficient number of poles of the species formerly used."
"Spectacular advances in airplane design during the past decade have created an increasing demand for additional testing facilities with which to obtain those data essential to successful design. To answer partially this demand and to facilitate more basic aerodynamic research on the subject of compressibility effects experienced in high speed flight, several new wind tunnels were constructed during this same period. These tunnels vary widely in size and in requirements for air density and air speed in the tunnel working section. Correspondingly, the horsepower output requirements for their main fan drive motors vary widely. But in all cases close speed regulation at preselected speed values over a wide range is essential to good test results. Most modern tunnels also incorporate suitable electric equipment for the operation of powered models and for the calibration of motors used in these models. This paper describes the Cornell variable density wind tunnel from the viewpoint of electrical engineers and discusses principles governing the selection of electric equipment for wind tunnels."
"OPERATING EXPERIENCES have demonstrated that the attainment of good service reliability of most electric power cables has become substantially more a function of the characteristics of the sheath than of the insulation. Modern underground installations of impregnated-paper-insulated, lead-covered power cable include 1. Solid-type cable with (a). Compound-filled joints without reservoirs. (b). Oil-filled joints with reservoirs. 2. Oil-filled cable operated at 10- to 15-pound gauge pressure. 3. Gas-filled (or pressure) cable operated at (a). Low pressure (10- to 15-pound gauge). (b). Medium pressure (24- to 40-pound gauge). (c). High pressure (150- to 300-pound gauge)."
"THE military requirements for high accuracy position control systems have placed emphasis on the need for a voltage signal source which can indicate electrically a mechanical shaft position. In addition this signal source must have high accuracy, marked dependability, and the capability of continuous mechanical rotation. A modification of the conventional Selsyn generator-motor system1 has been developed and used extensively to fill this need."
"AT DIFFERENT STAGES in the manufacture of insulated wire and cable, various electrical and physical tests are made to ensure the quality and serviceability of the completed cable. One of the most important of these tests is the high voltage test, a-c or d-c. It may be applied to short sections of the insulated conductor as it passes through electrodes of various types, dry or wet, or to full factory lengths of the insulated wire, dry or wet."
"This paper discusses lethal electric currents and their accompanying physiological effects, and interprets the data of a previous paper4 in accordance with an original method of analysis found useful by the author in his own investigations of let-go currents. The present analysis concerns itself with threshold currents likely to produce instantaneous electrocution in one-half per cent of a large group of normal men. Although the conclusions are derived from tests made on animals, it is believed that the results may be indicative of what might be expected to occur in man. The majority of the work is based on experiments made at 60 cycles with shock durations of 0.03 to 3.0 seconds. Predictions of lethal currents for both direct current and capacitor discharges, while more speculative because of the limited data available, are included because of their importance due to the greatly increased use of direct current and electronic equipment."
"REELING OPERATIONS impose a number of special requirements on the reel drive, particularly if the latter is of the so-called core type as compared to the rather rarely used peripheral type drive."
"Experience has shown that multiple electrical failures may occur simultaneously in an industrial plant as the result of an initial breakdown of insulation causing high transient voltages. Available methods of surge protection to guard against insulation breakdown and neutral grounding to prevent high transient voltages are presented. Consideration is given to the merits and limitations of these methods when applied to industrial plants."
"The main results of a study of the various phenomena which take place during the interruption of currents in high vacuum are given. The experimental results obtained lead to a theory of the basic mechanism affecting switching in high vacuum. With a proper design of the switch, a constant working pressure can be obtained which represents an equilibrium between gases and vapors evolving from the electrodes and a pumping action based on the sputtering of cathode material. A detailed study is made of the factors determining the loss of electrode material because of switching. The most essential design features of a vacuum switch are discussed briefly."
"ELECTRIC SHIELDING of a-c power cable is provided primarily for the purpose of directing and confining the electric field within the insulation so as to prevent the occurrence of unduly high electric stresses in dielectrically weak directions or regions of a cable. Martin Hochstadter laid down the principles governing such shielding in 1913, with particular application to impregnated paper insulated cables for high voltages.1"
"The considerations involved in the design of an automatic synchronous condenser control are discussed in this paper with an aim toward helping the designer and user of synchronous condenser equipment obtain modern and complete facilities in his design. A typical push-button-operated control for a large synchronous condenser is described and the diagrams involved are shown. The description includes a detailed rsum of starting sequence, protective device operation, and automatic control of voltage and load. Emphasis is put on the adaptability of push-button control to full automatic operation or remote operation by direct or supervisory control."
"The proper register for multicolor printing, that is, the printing of as many as five colors on top of one another to the required accuracy of a few thousandths of an inch, has been successfully solved by the use of phototubes and associated electronic equipment. In the system described, the electronic portion extends all the way from the phototubes to the thyratrons which supply the required current to energize the correcting motor armature in the proper direction and at the speed for correct register. A typical installation is shown in Figure 1."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The 18th annual presentation of the Lamme Medal took place at the recent AIEE summer convention in Detroit, Mich. The 1945 medal was awarded to David C. Prince (F '26) for his distinguished work in the development of high voltage switching equipment and electronic converters. The award is made each year to an engineer who has shown meritorious achievement in the development of electrical apparatus or machinery."
"The 1945 Lamme Medalist, David C. Prince, is first and foremost an inventer with 93 patents to his credit covering subjects ranging from electric ship propulsion to welding circuits. A consistent breaker of tradition, he is one of those who have the ability and imagination to think in terms of progress in broad steps regardless of the seeming insurmountability of the problems confronting them. He is considered an ideal choice for the medal which symbolizes the engineer's hopeful attitude toward the seemingly unattainable."
"The engineer's hopeful attitude toward the hitherto unattainable has been justified by his accomplishment, time and again, of the seemingly impossible. Inasmuch as he is able to achieve such gratifying results in his own field, perhaps his methods could be applied with equal success in the wider field of human relations."
"GEORGE WESTINGHOUSE was born in 1846  exactly 100 years ago. At that time, the United States west of the Mississippi was largely Indian territory; or Oregon country disputed between the United States and Great Britain; or what is now California, but was then a part of Mexico  a nation with which the United States was about to engage in war over the annexation of Texas. James Polk was in the White House; and emigrations were under way to California and Oregon, with the Mormons moving West."
"COLLECTIVE BARGAINING, as carried on by labor unions with employers, has two principal aspects. In the first place, it is a method of price-making  making the price of labor. In the second place, it is a method of introducing civil rights into industry, that is, of requiring that management be conducted by rule rather than by arbitrary decision. In this latter aspect, collective bargaining becomes a method of building up a system of industrial jurisprudence."
"The second in a series of three articles, this article continues a discussion of the functions of the automatic sequence controlled calculator developed at Harvard University in co-operation with the International Business Machines Corporation. The calculator will carry out any selected sequence of the five fundamental operations of arithmetic (addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and reference to tables of previously computed results) under completely automatic control. The functions considered herein are those of the multiplication and division registers and of the functional units."
"Part II of a Japanese radar survey continues a report based on a study made by the United States Army which was particularly fruitful because of the obvious willingness of the Japanese to volunteer technical information, in spite of the difficulties of interrogating in a foreign tongue or through an interpreter unfamiliar with technical terminology. Because radar research was carried on separately by the army and navy in Japan, this article complements Part I's discussion of army radar with a summary of naval developments in the same field, as well as discussing general factors incidental to the manufacture and operation of radar equipment."
"An AIEE member who was present at the recent atomic bomb tests at Bikini reports his reactions to the tests to the Institute. Full texts of the reports of President's Evaluation Commission and the Joint Chiefs of Staff Evaluation Board are included."
"Statistical control of repeated operations has been discussed in previous articles of this series. Another problem of common occurrence is the statistical interpretation of limited experimental tests. These tests usually are designed to judge whether or not two comparative conditions provide an actual difference in some quality characteristic."
"The Great Lakes District meeting to be held in Indianapolis, Ind., October 911 is sponsored jointly by the Fort Wayne and Central Indiana Sections. Meeting headquarters will be in the Claypool Hotel. As this District covers a large industrial area, a considerable portion of the program deals with industrial problems. Special attention is called to the general meeting Thursday afternoon conducted by the committee on planning and co-ordination. This conference will be a continuation of similar meetings held at the winter convention, summer convention, and at several District meetings, and everyone is urged to attend."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE Great Lakes District meeting, Indianapolis, Ind., October 911, 1946, and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the meeting registration desk."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The temporary quarters of the United Nations organization at Lake Success, N. Y., were used for the first time when the Security Council met on August 28, 1946. Early in July the Sperry Gyroscope Company had vacated a 650 by 650 foot portion of their wartime plant as well as their administration building at Lake Success on Long Island. Extensive alterations had been effected in the next 46 days. The entire electrical installation was planned, engineered, and supervised by Voorhees, Walker, Foley, and Smith, architects and engineers of New York, N. Y."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"CONSIDERABLE progress has been made in recent years in the design of marine control equipment. Under the impact of the war, the performance of controllers has been improved and better equipment of lighter weight has been made available. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss some of the more important design features on which the controller performance is based."
"THE PROBABILITY of simultaneous occurrences of events for which the individual rate of occurrence is known can be determined by the well-known binomial law. This law states that if n events have each a probability or rate of occurrence p, then the probabilities that 0, 1, 2, 3, etc., of the n events occur simultaneously, are given by the consecutive terms of the binomial function [p + (1  p)]n."
"APPLICATION DATA for mercury pool tubes or tanks must include information covering rectifier capacity, control characteristics, excitation requirements, losses, cooling requirements, and other essential characteristics."
"THE MECHANICAL transients analyzer1,2 provides a fast and simple method of obtaining the complete solutions to the performance equations of servomechanisms under any type of operating condition. It has been found to be applicable to the detailed analysis of specific systems. Also, because of the great rapidity with which parameters of a basic system can be changed once that system is set up, the analyzer is admirably suited to generalized studies of various types of systems. This paper presents a general study that has been made of variable-voltage angular-position servomechanisms. The data give dominant system frequencies and damping rates for a two time delay system with simple error control and for a wide range of parameters. Similar data are presented for error control plus optimum anticipation time constants, together with other performance characteristics. Because of the many curves required for the same type of analysis of the several variations of resistance-capacitance-feedback and other forms of antihunt or damping devices, they will not be treated here."
"In certain common rectifier and inverter circuits, gas-filled rectifier tubes supplying highly inductive loads with firing delayed by grid control, are subjected to the application of high rates of rise of initial inverse voltage. This phenomenon results in short tube life because of the sputtering of anode material by the impact of residual ions attracted at high velocity to the negatively charged anode with consequent gas cleanup. The paper describes a method of slowing down or cushioning this rate of rise of initial inverse voltage. A small resistance and capacitance circuit connected between cathode and anode of each tube delays the voltage rise the few microseconds necessary to eliminate gas cleanup. Life test data and practical applications are cited."
"This paper gives the results of a series of tests on two sizes (AN-16 and AN-8) of insulated aircraft wires and cables, which were made to determine their permissible short-time current-carrying capacities. The times under consideration ranged from 0.01 to 1,000 seconds. A description is given of a very simple but adequate electrical test together with an accompanying insulation test to determine what are considered permissible transient temperatures. Tentative recommendations of short-time current-carrying capacity for aircraft cable sizes AN-22 to AN-00 are made."
"APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS for current transformers sometimes indicate the use of secondary currents lower than the generally accepted standard 5-ampere rating. Very little published information is available on this subject, other than a description of a few specific installations where such transformers have been applied. The natural question arises as to the advantages and disadvantages resulting from the use of current transformers with secondary ratings below five amperes, and under what circumstances their use should be considered. Because many of the applications of low-current secondaries involved relay protection, the AIEE relay subcommittee appointed a working group in October 1943 to study the problem, and from that study, gives recommended practice for their use."
"RECENT aircraft design has emphasized multiengine airplanes, especially for commercial transports and military types. Two and 4-engine planes are commonplace and 6-engine craft are proposed for the near future. Engine synchronism indication, usually between a master engine and each of the others, becomes more important as the number of engines on the airplane increases. It is possible to synchronize two engines by ear, but this method becomes exceedingly difficult for aircraft with more than two engines."
"ONE of the prime objectives in rectifier development during the past 20 years has been the decrease in frequency of arc-back. The factors involved in arc-back have received considerable attention, and it now appears that arc-backs of typical mercury arc rectifiers are caused by the following: 1. Breakdown of the mercury vapor because of inverse voltage. 2. Conditions favorable for cathode spot formation on the anode at the end of the commutation period."
"The use of high voltage apparatus in military aircraft made it necessary to obtain flashover data on capacitor bushings at altitudes up to 50,000 feet. Some of the more pertinent data are presented in this paper which gives a-c and d-c flashover voltages for porcelain bushings having spacings of 5/8 inch to 2 7/8 inches from cap to ring. The tests were made at both normal atmospheric and reduced pressures, but no attempt was made to simulate the frosting conditions as encountered in flying. Correlations are shown between bushing spacings and the effect of pressure change. A single correction curve for pressurechanges cannot be used, but a family of curves is required for various spacings of insulators and electrostatic field configuration. This paper shows that the practical use of porcelain insulators is limited to altitudes and voltages well below maximum values proposed for aircraft use. It is recommended that solid insulation be used in such a manner as to obtain the benefit of its puncture strength rather than its flashover at the more extreme conditions of altitude and voltage."
"Although the many obvious advantages of ship propulsion drives with synchronous motors and generators, and with power supplied by Diesel engines, have been realized for some time, no actual installations were made in this country until a few years ago when a trial installation was completed on a 12,000 horsepower twin-screw vessel. Experience gained from operation of this vessel has established that this type of drive in many respects is superior to other drives, and indications are that it may find extensive use on future vessels. The paper discusses control problems associated with the drive and describes methods of control and types of control equipment which have been found best suited for the drive."
"THE LOAD CAPACITY of mercury arc rectifiers must be known in order to utilize them to fullest extent and best advantage. Knowledge of the factors affecting rectifier capacity and the relations between them has increased so that it is now possible to specify the rectifier capacity in definite terms."
"Silvered mica capacitors, because of their inherently high capacitance stability with temperature changes and with age, now are used widely in oscillators, networks, and other frequency determining circuits in the Bell Telephone System. Their use in place of the previous dry stack type, consisting of alternate layers of mica and foil clamped under high pressures, has made possible considerable manufacturing economies in addition to improving the transmission performance of carrier telephone circuits. These economies are the result of their relatively simple unit construction and the ease of adjustment to the very close capacitance tolerance required."
"IN THE PAST FEW YEARS, with the heavy demands made on power systems, an increased interest has developed in network analyzers for public utility use. This has resulted in installation of several new analyzers and design or planning of others. In line with this trend, the Iowa State College has been active in developing and constructing an analyzer for use by utilities of the midwest area. Following general educational policy, the work was undertaken as a research project of the Iowa Engineering Experiment Station to determine the feasibility of applying new equipment and new techniques in improving the design of the a-c network analyzer."
"As rectifier capacity is increased, it becomes desirable to use larger capacity rectifying elements. The choice of rectifying element size requires careful consideration in order to provide a complete range with a minimum number of units. The sizes of industrial ignitron tubes for welding control and for rectifier service have been chosen on a preferred number scale providing a proportionate increase at each increment. The development of a 400-ampere ignitron for rectifier service was undertaken to provide the next larger size tube in the series. Development work on the 400-ampere ignitron disclosed that design problems become more complex as the physical size of the tube is increased. The ability of a tube to rectify a given current with a minimum number of arc-backs is affected by circuit duty and by control of ionization, particularly at the end of the current com-mutating period. None of the factors involved have indicated an upper limit in size, but rather a need for a more exact understanding of the phenomena involved."
"THE APPLICATION of series capacitors to spot, projection, and seam welders no longer presents any difficult problems, and they have been used successfully with these types of welders for several years."
"A SURVEY of practice on existing transmission systems shows, for the same operating voltage, wide variations in the insulation used. Also, wide variations occur in the spacing between conductors and from them to grounded members of the supporting structure."
"The problem of rating the transmission performance of telephone connections is considered, including a review in considerable detail of a method proposed by J. R. Hughes.1 With this background, a modification of Hughes' technique is presented with indications of certain attendant advantages."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Although that part of the Saint Lawrence River known as the international rapids section is potentially a promising source of hydroelectric power, little has been done thus far toward developing the region. However, a contemplated plan evolved jointly by Canada and the United States provides for improvement of the section for purposes of navigation and power."
"With the growing use of X rays and gamma rays in the inspection of industrial products, it becomes increasingly important to acquaint both engineers and workers with the dangers to personnel engendered by the rays and with methods of protection from these dangers. Because of the delayed-action characteristics which render the radiations one of the most insidious of industrial hazards, safety measures must include not only preliminary protective barrier and distance factors, but must provide for periodic exposure tests and routine measurements of the dose of radiation to which a given worker is subjected."
"The strength and stability of any plan for world peace must be drawn from the states composing it and these states, in turn, reflect the thinking of their people as expressed through public opinion. Thus, the engineer and scientist, as members of a profession with its attendant responsibilities to the public, must be prepared to contribute their share to the formation of the enlightened world opinion that is essential for the development of understanding between nations."
"By arbitrary definition inductive reactive power is considered negative. Ample justification seems to exist for changing the sign of reactive power, and the steps already taken in that direction are reflected here. Comments from the readers should be addressed to the secretary, AIEE Standards committee, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"With the opening of the superhigh frequency spectrum, the American telegraph industry now finds it economically possible to utilize radio relaying and still attain the necessary high degree of circuit stability and continuity. However, radio power is not yet practical for smaller systems but should be reserved for routes with relatively heavy traffic loads such as the proposed New York-Washington-Pittsburgh network."
"THE halfway mark of the 20th century is still ahead, yet so far there have been two major wars and a third is entirely possible. The human traits responsible for the wars and for the ensuing turmoil are evil enough, but some of the behavior, such as the killing and torturing of the helpless, is on the animal level. Although such traits and behavior were characteristic of large groups in enemy countries they were not restricted to them, so it might be concluded that human progress is stalled if it is not actually in reverse. Before accepting such a pessimistic view it might be well to look back into the past."
"WHEN A RELATIVELY LARGE number of values, such as constants or random values of a variable, are to be used by the calculator, and further, when these values are to be used in a prescribed order, they may be supplied to the machine via one of the interpolator mechanisms and a perforated paper tape. Such a tape is known as a value tape to distinguish it from a functional tape. Mathematically, the operation of reading from a value tape is the equivalent of zero order interpolation. In order to increase the flexibility of the interpolators when used in this manner, three sequence codes have been assigned to each interpolator mechanism. These require that the tape be stepped forward, stepped back, and that the sensing pins read from the tape."
"The Pacific Coast meeting was held in Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, with headquarters in the Olympic Hotel. A well-balanced program was offered, comprised of nine sessions, including a student session and a session devoted to a discussion on the organization of the engineering profession, interspersed with inspection trips, a golf tournament, and social events for both men and women. Judged by the many enthusiastic comments received, the meeting was highly successful. The total attendance of 562 was a record for Pacific Coast meetings and more than double the attendance at the last meeting held in Seattle in 1935."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The full year's schedule of meetings for 194647 recently was issued and distributed by the Illinois Valley Section, reflecting the interest, activity, and foresight of the officers of this new Section. Gordon H. Duff (A '45) application engineer for the Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Peoria, Ill., is the chairman of the Section's program committee. The Section was established formally June 30, 1946, with an initial membership of 47 compared with which its August 1, 1946, membership of 80 represents a 70 per cent growth."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"After a year of intensive tests and public and private demonstrations, executives of the Columbia Broadcasting System believe that the purely experimental stage of color television is past and have petitioned the Federal Communications Commission to adopt standards for commercial application of the CBS color television system."
"The former Army camp at Camp Upton, N. Y., is being transformed into an atomic research center, Brookhaven National Laboratory, under the sponsorship of an organization of nine universities, Associated Universities Inc., Doctor Philip M. Morse, director of research for the new institution, has announced. Peacetime applications of atomic energy will be the primary purpose of the project. Funds for the center are being supplied by the United States War Department, which is making an initial appropriation of $5,000,000."
"The Westinghouse Electric Corporation has introduced a new line of integralhorsepower steel-frame squirrel-cage induction motors which is called an unusual advance above the normal rate of progress. Some of the major construction features."
"That American universities must beware lest Government funds granted for research become a controlling influence on those institutions was the consensus of the scientists attending the Princeton University bicentennial conference on the future of nuclear science."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"THE PROCESSING of starch requires large quantities of water. Thus, when the United States Sugar Corporation recently added the processing of starch to their activities, it was natural to install their new plant, which makes use of sweet potatoes as the raw product, at Clewiston, Fla. Clewiston is located in the Everglades near Lake Okeechobee. Lake Okeechobee is a shallow lake but it covers an area of over 700 square miles, second in area only to Lake Michigan in the United States."
"INSULATION RESISTANCE of rotating machines was considered by many to be a haphazard collection of unrelated numbers. One reason for this view was that insulation resistance readings rarely were taken under the same conditions. Many of the factors which greatly affect insulation resistance were not known. In the past decade, significant contributions have been made toward a better understanding of the problem.14 The influence of insulation temperature, time of application, and magnitude of test voltage, moisture, and machine size were recognized."
"A new circuit element and control device, the thermistor, or thermally sensitive resistor, is made of solid semiconducting materials whose resistance decreases about four per cent per degree centigrade. The thermistor presents interesting opportunities to the designer and engineer in many fields of technology for accomplishing tasks more simply, economically, and better than with available devices. Part I discusses the conduction mechanism in semiconductors and the criteria for usefulness of circuit elements made from them. The fundamental physical properties of thermistors, their construction, their static and dynamic characteristics, and general principles of operation are treated. Part II of this paper deals with the applications of thermistors. These include: sensitive thermometers and temperature control elements, simple temperature compensators, ultrahigh frequency power meters, automatic gain controls for transmission systems, voltage regulators, speech volume limiters, compressors and expandors, gas pressure gauges and flow-meters, meters for thermal conductivity determination of liquids, and contactless time delay devices. Thermistors with short time constants have been used as sensitive bolometers, and show promise as simple, compact, audiofrequency oscillators, modulators, and amplifiers."
"RESISTANCE WELDING as a labor saving production method has made tremendous strides in the past decade. Its widespread recognition during World War II has made it quite evident that this art will be used even more universally in the postwar era."
"The unusually large concentration of generating capacity at Coulee Dam makes possible short-circuit power on the 230-kv bus considerably in excess of the rupturing capacity of circuit breakers now available at that voltage. Methods of sectionalizing the bus and segregating the transmission lines to limit the maximum short circuit to less than 3,500,000 kva are described in this paper. A group of fault tests on one of the 230-kv 3-cycle 3,500,000-kva steel tank oil circuit breakers was made with a maximum of six generators connected. Three-phase faults close to the breaker rating and single phase-to-ground short-circuit currents equivalent to 4,370,-000-kva 3-phase were cleared with no apparent effort by the breaker. These are believed to be the heaviest short circuits ever interrupted on any power system in the world."
"PHILOSOPHICALLY the electric power system exists to serve certain human needs and it must serve them better and more economically than they could be served by other methods or it would not be able to continue to exist or to grow. The rendering of service of the required degree of excellence, within economic limitations, is not an inherent attribute of the electric power system but is the result of sustained and carefully co-ordinated effort on the part of all concerned in the rendering of the service, including 1. Precautions taken in the design of equipment to make it trouble free and reliable. 2. Precautions taken in system layout and connections to enable service to be rendered continuously under adverse as well as under favorable conditions. 3. Precautions taken in the operation and maintenance of the system to avoid unnecessary interruptions to service."
"D-C POWER SYSTEMS on transport aircraft before World War II were small in capacity as compared to the present requirements. Present wide speed-range generators are 12 to 15 times the ratings used on old DC-3's, and system capacity on new transports may be 30 times greater and capable of sustaining fault currents greater than 5,000 amperes at 30 volts. It is also necessary to consider the increase in the voltage from the smaller system to the larger system. The 12-volt system does not have sufficient potential to maintain an arc or ionize gases so that an arc could be maintained for any length of time, whereas, the 24-volt system does have sufficient potential to maintain an arc or ionize gases. This is a fundamental characteristic of the electric circuit and is quite often forgotten about when voltages greater than the critical arcing values are used. Arcing voltages are in the neighborhood of 18 to 20 volts, depending upon the materials and atmospheric pressures at the electrodes involved. The number of electrically operated devices also has been increased, and many of the electrical requirements which are vital to flight operation are therefore dependent on the continuity of electric power. Study of various means of controlling and protecting electric power systems against failures in the light of these facts has led to some interesting simple developments which are described in this paper."
"THE AIEE relay subcommittee has reviewed the protection of generating stationauxiliary power motors and supply systems. The study was made to obtain information on auxiliary power systems now in use and the protective methods being applied, and to make recommendations on preferred practices."
"THE Iowa-Illinois Gas and Electric Company installed its first unit-type substations late in 1939. At the present time, there are installed in the various operating districts of the company nine unit-type substations. We are outlining the reasons for the choice of this type of substation and the distribution system into which the substations are being fitted. This paper will cover our operating experience with six of this type of substation located in the quad-city area of Davenport, Iowa; Rock Island, Moline, and East Moline, Ill. The reasons given for the selection of this type of substation, the design of the distribution system served by the substation, and operating experience so far encountered are typical also of the other districts in which the additional three substations are located."
"It is the purpose of this paper to set forth the broad phases of the problems involved in establishing a telephone and telegraph landline system in a military theater of operations, the manner in which these problems were met, and the results obtained in the North African Theater of Operations. The aspects reviewed are those involving the unification of the theater-wide wire facilities into a single system including maximum integration of civil plant and military installations, with centralized supervisory control of the available resources."
"The increased use of a-c instruments over a frequency range of 25 to 3,000 cycles for aircraft and industrial applications has imposed new requirements on instrument design. It is recognized that the standard type of a-c ammeters and voltmeters normally calibrated for use at a given frequency are subject to errors in indication when used at other frequencies. This paper describes the manner in which one line of a-c ammeters and voltmeters can be compensated to have minimum errors resulting from changes in frequency over a range of 25 to 3,000 cycles. Errors found in the uncompensated and compensated types of instruments with changes in frequency are shown, and a practical means of determining the amount of compensation and its application to ammeters and voltmeters is presented."
"Protection engineers always have desired to obtain a system of ground fault protection that will discriminate and actually trip out only the ground faulted circuit of a complex distribution network. This has been a difficult chore because the magnitude of the ground current often varies so greatly as to be out of the range of the normal protective relay settings. A system is proposed here that not only has proper discrimination, but also operates on very low amounts of ground current with the maximum ground current held to such a low value that practically no harm or damage is done by the ground fault. This development was encouraged by the necessity of joint use of poles by lines of communication circuits and distribution circuits. This method comprises the installation of a small bank of grounding transformers at each of the stations where the lines originate or terminate. With these small ground banks the maximum ground fault current is very small. Adequate relays and systems are used to isolate only the faulted sections of line. The installation of one 11-kv and one 16.5-kv loop will be described. These two systems have had several years of successful operation."
"Increased cost involved in serving electric power to customers, and the aim to lower rates, have accelerated the need for most efficient utilization of existing generating and distribution equipment. The paper describes a method for loading power circuit breakers on a temperature basis for the purpose of taking advantage of their inherent current carrying ability. Several years of practical application of the basic theory has proved entirely satisfactory on various types of electric equipment and has, in many cases, established considerable savings on new investments. While these savings apply to a lesser degree to circuit breakers than to other major power equipment, their application in accordance with temperature, rather than name plate rating, has put the use of new and existing facilities on an equally sound engineering basis."
"EARLY IN 1943 a number of engineers in the Bonneville Power Administration were informed of a new mystery load which was to be added to the BPA system. Later this load became known as the Hanford Engineer Works of the Manhattan District. We, of course, were warned that the new load was one of the war's top secrets. The product to be made, about which no one seemed to know anything, the location of the plant and its general arrangement, the amount of power to be taken by the plant, the location of the transmission lines which were to supply it, and the additional important fact that the power to be supplied had to have the utmost reliability were subjects which were not to be discussed unless absolutely necessary. It is our feeling that all these secrets were well-kept. For while BPA engineers had the responsibility of arranging their system to provide reliable service to this new load, there were times when we despaired of ever obtaining sufficient general technical information regarding the apparatus to be used by the Hanford Engineer Works to make possible the best co-ordinated system design."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"During the past few years many railroad companies have conducted extensive tests of inductive and radio carrier communication systems. Excerpts from reports of these tests point out that these systems though not perfect are already rendering useful service."
"Originally presented as an address before the recent National Electronics Conference in Chicago, this article considers one viewpoint in the current controversy over the question of government support of scientific research. The author takes his stand on the side of federal promotion of science, provided the policy to be pursued is both scientifically and politically acceptable. Undoubtedly, some readers will take issue with him. Truly, here is food for serious thought, and potential for extended debate."
"Slow-acting relays have been the unobtrusive little behind-the-scenes timing-control elements in various kinds of electrical installations for so long that they now are taken for granted. Although supervisory control, telemetering, and protective relay systems for electric power systems, have been covered extensively in technical literature, the role played by the slow-acting relay for the most part has been passed over. In a like manner, much has been written about machine switching in automatic telephony, but little has been said about the slow-acting relays at the heart of the works. Aware of this deficiency in published information, the AIEE committee on communications, under direct sponsorship of the subcommittee on quick and slow-acting relays, arranged a conference at the 1946 AIEE winter convention for the purpose of preliminary exploration of the subject and of the interest in it. The essential substance of that material is presented in these articles."
"ATYPICAL RELAY, used by the millions in telephone offices, in shown in Figure 1  the U-type relay. This particular type is not a slow relay; its action time is about 1/20th second or less. It can be slowed, however, to give times in the range from 50 to 500 milliseconds, which is the ordinary range of delay in telephone relays. These delays can be obtained  at reasonable cost, with reasonable accuracy, and without too great a sacrifice in number of contacts  through application of the principles to be outlined. Primarily, these delays are obtained by the use of short-circuited turns to oppose a change in magnetization, and by using the properties of the relay upon disconnection of the circuit, not on closure, because of the greater stability of a relay upon its release. The subject of this article then narrows down to the principles underlying slow-release relays."
"THE TIME INTERVAL required for the closing or opening of a relay contact after the current is applied or removed, is dependent upon the balance of mechanical forces acting on the mass of the armature. These balanced forces are the spring load force, the magnetic operating force, the frictional force, and the force of acceleration. Because changes in the magnetic forces occur when the armature is unoperated, while it is moving through its stroke, and also after it is operated, it is necessary to show the relationship of the magnetic forces as a function of armature stroke at constant ampere-turn values and the magnetic forces as a function of ampere turns at various armature stroke positions. The curve of Figure 8 shows these relationships in a typical telephone-type relay structure carrying an operating load of 12 make-contacts and operating with zero residual. air gap."
"THE APPLICATION of telephone relays in the power field is not new. These relays have been in use for years by many utility companies on special applications. The larger power manufacturers have used them as elemental units in telemetering, selective calling on carrier telephone circuits, carrier relay protection, protective distance relaying, and also in supervisory control."
"This searching consideration of the question of organizing or reorganizing the engineering profession is presented for the purpose of stimulating additional thought and discussion by the entire AIEE membership. The author, speaking in the light of experience as president of the Texas Society of Professional Engineers and vice-chairman of the AIEE membership committee, supports Plan B of the various proposals of the AIEE planning and co-ordination committee's professional activities subcommittee (EE, Apr '46, pp 16973). He urges that collaboration and co-operation are more effective than attempted consolidation in view of the great diversity of interests among engineers."
"Conferences on subjects varying from electric machinery to basic sciences were held at the Great Lakes District meeting of the Institute held at Indianapolis, Ind., from October 911. The majority of the papers presented were of the conference or District type and will not be published formally. The following material summarizes the papers presented at the meeting."
"For the purpose of giving AIEE members a brief cross section indicating the scope and nature of the 57 scheduled technical subjects discussed at the second National Electronics Conference in Chicago, October 39, 1946, the following brief digests are presented, drawn primarily from information furnished by the authors. Except to the extent that individual authors may have extra copies of their papers these papers are not individually available. All these papers are scheduled to be published in the Proceedings of the second National Electronics Conference, which currently is in production and is expected to be available for distribution early in 1947. Persons interested in securing copies of the Proceedings should take action immediately, forwarding a request and a remittance of $3.50 to E. H. Schulz, secretary, National Electronics Conference, Inc., Technology Center, Chicago 16, Ill."
"An all-inclusive professional program and diversified social activities are promised for the AIEE winter meeting, January 2731, 1947, in New York, N. Y. On the social side, as usual, a smoker and dinner dance will be held. Theater tickets will be available for out-of-town members, and special entertainment for women will be provided. Inspection trips will be arranged to places of interest and near-by industries. On the professional side technical sessions and conferences, segregated in four broad groups  industry, power, communication and science, and general applications  will cover practically the entire field of electrical engineering. The general session will be the common meeting ground of all four groups. During the meeting, presentation of the Edison, John Fritz, and Hoover Medals will be made. Details of the awards will be announced later. Meeting headquarters will be in the Engineering Societies' Building."
"One of the fundamental purposes of the Institute is the dissemination to its members of information concerning new theories, new apparatus, and new developments throughout the electrical field. Incidental to its responsibility under this objective, and pursuant to action of the board of directors (EE, June 1946, p 270) the AIEE publication committee has been developing ways and means of improving the Institute's publications policy and procedure with the objectives of better serving the greatly enlarged and rapidly growing membership and of covering adequately the active and ever-growing electrical field."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE winter meeting, New York, N. Y., January 2731, 1947, and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Members may obtain copies by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the meeting registration desk. Prices for nonmembere will be twice those for members."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"With an advance registration of about 1,200 and a final registration of approximately 2,100, the second National Electronics Conference was held October 35, 1946, at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago. During the 2 1/2-day conference 19 technical sessions  running as many as 5 in parallel  accommodated 57 lists of technical subjects which were presented in various forms ranging from formal technical papers to extemporaneous reports and panel discussions."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"AN electronic frequency meter and speed regulator has been developed to measure and hold the speed of a small steam turbine within plus or minus one-half of one per cent of any speed between 10,000 and 100,000 rpm."
"PREVENTION of ice formation on the aircraft windshield presents difficult problems. In addition to optical quality, the thermal and structural characteristics of suitable transparent materials, such as glass and certain plastics, must be given careful consideration. Further, an important design criterion for an aircraft windshield is its ability to withstand impact loads such as those which result when a large bird strikes the windshield. Contemporary windshield design practice usually calls for a laminated structure, commonly consisting of a layer of polyvinyl butyral, encased between two plates of tempered glass. The impact resistance of such a construction has been shown to be dependent upon the vinyl temperature, the optimum temperature being of the order of 110 degrees Fahrenheit. Direct correlation thus exists between impact resistance and anti-icing ability in windshield design. The regulations of the Civil Aeronautics Board specify that the windshield and supporting structure of a transport airplane shall be designed to resist the impact of a 4-pound bird when the airplane is flying at sea level cruising speed.1 It is apparent, therefore, that it may be necessary to supply heat to a laminated windshield continuously, regardless of the prevalence of icing conditions, and further that the amount of heat must be controlled within the limits specified by impact resistance as well as deicing."
"THE USE of an inert gas in enclosed electric equipment has increased considerably in recent years. In transformers an inert gas is used in the space provided above the transformer fluid to allow for its volumetric expansion with temperature rise. There the function of the gas is to provide an inert medium by which the pressure at the surface of the transformer fluid is kept slightly above atmospheric. Thus the fluid is not exposed to the moisture and oxygen of the air, as it is with the so-called open-breather or oil-conservator types unless the latter communicate with the outside atmosphere through chemical agents. In gas pressure cables, however, the inert gas is used at pressures up to approximately 15 atmospheres in order that the cables may operate successfully at electric stresses that are higher than otherwise would be possible.13"
"An 8-channel microwave relay system is described. Known to the Army and Navy as AN/TRC-6, the system uses radio frequencies approaching 5,000 megacycles. At these frequencies, there is a complete absence of static and most man-made interference. The waves are concentrated into a sharp beam and do not travel along the earth much beyond seeing distances. Other systems using the same frequencies can be operated in the near vicinity. The transmitter power is only one four-millionth as great as would be required with nondirectional antennas. The distance between sets is limited but by using intermediate repeaters communications are extended readily to longer distances. Short pulses of microwave power carry the intelligence of the eight messages utilizing pulse position modulation to modulate the pulses and time division to multiplex the channels. The eight message circuits which each AN/TRC-6 system provides are high-grade telephone circuits and can be used for signaling, dialing, facsimile, picture transmission, or multichannel voice frequency telegraph. Two-way voice transmission over radio links totaling 1,600 miles, and one-way over 3,200 miles have been accomplished successfully in demonstrations."
"Because of the violent maneuvering possibilities in modern aircraft, the usefulness of azimuth indicators in avigation depends on circumstances not existing in marine navigational applications. New problems in direction indicating instruments therefore have been introduced, such as the perplexing problem of obtaining indication after loops or rolls. Azimuth indicating systems now used in aircraft have not given a completely satisfactory solution to such problems."
"IN a preceding paper,1 an attempt was made to present a design point of view, indicating that the criterion for a design method is its direct ability to provide the construction data whereby desired machine specifications are met. The idea was illustrated by a procedure for polyphase motor design, stripped of refinements, and employing a magnetic circuit of fixed contour. Such a condition arises through the use of standard laminations in which designs are made. The questions naturally, arise as to how these laminations are proportioned and what affect the proportions have on performance. It is with such matters that the present paper is concerned, directed chiefly at motors with semiclosed slots of 50 horsepower or less."
"The elaborate electric systems in modern long-range aircraft have made accuracy of load analysis more important than ever before. A more precise evaluation of the adequacy of proposed generating equipment can be made by averaging expected loads over several different periods which are chosen on the basis of the generators' thermal characteristics. These averages are compared graphically with curves which show the maximum overloads generators can tolerate without damage."
"This paper briefly describes a series of field tests made on the power line carrier current telephone system of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, covering both amplitude and frequency modulated equipment. A discussion of various tests and test results is given, with a comparison of performance of the amplitude and frequency modulated equipment."
"A discussion of a method for presenting the fundamental relations of the science of electricity and magnetism is presented including a brief description of the various absolute unit systems. Most of the fundamental relations of electricity and magnetism are presented in general form. The relations are called general in the sense that they are complete and correct for use with any consistent unrationalized unit system. The relations are presented in a logical and rigorous sequence, that is, the basis of each relation is found in the preceding relations."
"BEHIND THE SCENES of the rapid development of aeronautics in this country during recent years are the aeronautical research laboratories. In addition to their part in the development of aeronautics, these laboratories are of interest because of the variety of electric devices they employ and the surprising magnitude of their electric power loads. One of the largest aeronautical laboratories in terms of electric power is the Ames Aeronautical Laboratory of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, located at Moffett Field, Cal. This laboratory, on which construction was started in 1939, has developed rapidly to the point where it is now the largest single connected load on the Pacific Gas and Electric Company's system. With completion of wind tunnels now under construction this laboratory will have over 150,000 connected horsepower."
"IN electric power system operation numerous problems are encountered in analyzing the results of short circuits and in the physical location of the trouble. Some devices now available for analyzing short circuits in a-c circuits are the oscillograph, the annunciator ammeter, and a magnetic link device requiring rectifiers. The oscillograph is the most accurate device but is expensive. The annunciator ammeter provides a limited amount of data; however, it offers a high electric burden to the circuit and does not have closely graduated steps of reading."
"The frequency performance of small thyratrons is investigated by supplying anode voltage from a variable frequency electronic generator of 1,400 watts output capacity. At high audio frequencies there is a departure from the 60-cycle-per-second performance; the grid control characteristic resolves itself into two characteristics  a starting characteristic and an extinguishing characteristic. The starting characteristic is shown to be a function of grid-anode capacitance and grid resistance. The extinguishing characteristic is determined by deionization effects and so is a function of frequency, grid resistance, anode current, tube geometry, and gas pressure."
"THERE has been a demand for a flexible cable to carry single phase current for induction heating at frequencies up to 10 kc. Tests on an interleaved type of cable, used widely in portable spot welding, indicate its usefulness in carrying thousands of amperes at potentials under 1.000 volts at the higher frequencies."
"MOST MEN associated with resistance welding machines are conscious of the fact that the introduction of magnetic material into the throat of such equipment causes a reduction of the welding current. The degree of reduction and simple mathematical tools for estimating it are contained in this paper."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A brief rsum is given of the factors which necessitated the development of thoroughly practicable and reliable telemetering equipment for dynamic testing of high-speed aircraft in flight. An outline of a radio telemetering system is presented which was developed under contract and accepted as suitable for structural flight testing by the United States Navy Bureau of Aeronautics in April 1945. Emphasis is placed upon the electric system and circuits which are of most interest to Institute members. These include the stabilized amplitude modulated subcarrier oscillators, the master amplifier, the air-borne regulated power supply, the frequency modulated transmitter, the automatic frequency controlled frequency modulated receiver, the heterodyne analyzer, and the mobile receiving station."
"Sustained oscillations exhibiting many of the properties of free oscillations are found in saturable reactor circuits under appropriate conditions. The frequencies of such oscillations are classified in relation to that of the driving source as 1. Incommensurable. 2. Subharmonic, and multiples thereof. 3. Harmonic."
"THE use of the concept of time constants in the analysis of a-c rotating electric machine transients is well known.1 It is also well known that the short-circuit time constants of machines running at normal speed are not at all like those of the same machines at rest. The purposes of this paper are to show the continuous nature of the variation of the machine characteristics in the range of speed from zero to rated speed, and to determine the limits of applicability of the full-speed and standstill values and the behavior at low speed."
"Equations are presented whereby the authors' previous paper1 is extended to the design of coils for heating magnetic loads, where the load remains in a fixed position relative to the coil during the heat. In heating magnetic materials, there is considerable variation in impedance of the coil circuit as the load temperature changes. The present paper first develops certain general principles by which a variable impedance circuit may be designed to absorb a predetermined maximum power, on the basis of constants determining the maximum and minimum impedance. Methods then are given by which these constants may be calculated for carbon steel loads of types SAE 1015 to SAE 1045, or their equivalent. In practice, these methods apply to most through heating and some surface heating applications. The accuracy of calculations is substantiated experimentally."
"IN 1937 Arnold1 published an analytic procedure enabling the designer of a single-phase 2-conductor bus to determine combinations of conductor spacing and cross section that render proximity and skin effects (a-c resistance, eddy-current losses, and current density distortion) a minimum. For explicit details the reader is referred to Arnold's paper. For our purpose it suffices to remark: 1. In general the designer is afforded an unlimited number of combinations of conductor spacing and cross section."
"THE large number of similar high-capacity hydroelectric generating units in the power plants of the Saguenay system have afforded an unusual opportunity to effect improvements in efficiency, reliability, and output of such units. Well organized operating records, thorough engineering studies and experimentation, and farsighted management all have contributed to this result."
"Some recent developments have emphasized the need for information concerning the temperature at which dielectrics can be operated without electrical breakdown. This paper deals primarily with porcelain, but some data are included on the performance of steatite, glass, and zircon compositions. Data are presented on the variation in resistivity of the materials with varying temperature and also with varying voltage gradient. From the temperature-resistivity curves a method is developed for approximating the combination of temperature and voltage gradient which will result in electrical failure. Supporting data in the form of breakdown tests, made at various temperatures, are included. These tests include practical insulator forms as well as prepared test specimens."
"Design policies have been developed and established during the building and operating of 14 major hydroelectric generating stations since 1934. Turbines, governors, generators, transformers, switchgear, and other major equipment have been selected generally in accordance with normal manufacturers' designs except in specific cases where operating experience has indicated a definite need for improvement. Many of the improvements subsequently have become standardized by the manufacturers. Switching, bussing, control, relaying, wiring, piping, auxiliary equipment, and other station features have been developed by the Tennessee Valley Authority, using manufacturers' standard components as far as possible. The bases for selection of equipment and for development of station designs undoubtedly are applicable to other hydroelectric projects."
"THE TESTING of airplane scale models in wind tunnels has brought about a demand for variable frequency a-c power for controlling the speed of power model motors used to drive the propellers of the plane models. To obtain aerodynamic data on the plane model which are equivalent to the expected performance of the actual plane, it is necessary to drive the model propellers at speeds greatly in excess of propeller speeds of the actual plane. During tests in the wind tunnel, it must be possible to control propeller speed and to measure accurately the speed as well as power input into the propeller."
"AN EXCITATION SYSTEM consists essentially of an exciter and means for its regulation. Originally, manual control of voltage was used widely. With the development of power systems using modern apparatus, automatic control, in general, has come to play an important part in the progress of the electric power industry. Therefore, it is in keeping with this progress that voltage regulators have been used increasingly and have become an important factor in making possible further economies and improvements in system reliability. The increased use and acceptance of voltage regulators has been a great stimulus to the advancement of the art with the result that with the past few years several new types have been developed, placed in regular service, and are performing successfully."
"THE DETECTION of small leaks in large all-metal vacuum systems has long been a troublesome manufacturing problem for which there was no satisfactory solution. All of the generally used techniques of leak detection are cumbersome or have serious limitations such as lack of sensitivity, lack of selectivity, poor response, dependence upon vacuum conditions, uncertainty of interpretation of response, or usefulness being restricted to certain materials. Experience with many methods of leak detection on all sizes of apparatus has shown that an ideal leak detector must have the, following characteristics: (a). High sensitivity. The instrument must be able to detect small leaks."
"This paper presents formulas, in terms of easily evaluated coefficients, for the armature current, field current, and torque of d-c machines on short circuit. The method of the paper makes it unnecessary to calculate the mutual inductance between the armature and field windings. Heretofore, this mutual inductance (between the two windings which normally are in quadrature with each other) has made it exceedingly difficult to calculate current and torque on short circuit. Under short-circuit conditions, the armature and field windings are not, in effect, in quadrature with one another and are mutually inductive partly because of saturation of the flux path at one side of the poles and partly because of commutation phenomena. These circumstances create difficulties uniquely overcome in the paper. A basic feature of the paper is the expression for the relation between flux, armature amperes, and field amperes. Calculations cannot be made without establishing this relationship (plotted for a specific case in Figure 9) and a simple expression for it has not been presented before to the author's knowledge. Another important feature, also believed to be new, is the development of an expression for the resistance to current flow created by the reactance voltage of the alternating current in the armature winding. A third feature is a formula for estimating the time constant of the armature circuit using an average coefficient of inductance. The results are applied to several machines and the calculated performance compared with test data. In most cases, particularly with large machines having bar windings, approximate calculations can be made without need of manufacturer's data."
"In part I, published in 1938,1 the principal question considered was the effect of ventilating coils on temperature limits for ground faults greater than one minute, for which it was assumed that 160 degrees centigrade based on all heat stored in copper was the correct limit."
"THE renewed attention now being given to transmission of power from hydroelectric sites located at moderate and long distances from their load areas requires a re-evaluation of some of the factors affecting power system stability. This paper shows that the electrical loadings of long distance transmission systems may be increased a significant amount by the use of automatically controlled excitation and proper co-ordination of the apparatus characteristics."
"HISTORY tells us that measurement has been one of the principal foundations upon which the material progress of mankind has been based. It is only by carefully comparing or measuring the unknown in terms of some known quantity or unit that real knowledge is advanced. As our modern way of living increases in complexity and as our knowledge of science and technology expands, measurements and measuring equipment have progressively increased in diversity and in complication. Better measurements have vitally aided our progress in understanding physical laws, in designing and operating new and improved machines, and in automatic control of processes and operations. In all fields of applied arts and sciences, our rich store of knowledge is largely the result of our ability to measure."
"SIMPLICITY is of paramount importance when designing and laying out protective relay circuits. These circuits are called upon to operate so infrequently that they should be more reliable than the apparatus or lines they protect. Certain limiting conditions and requirements requested by circuit designers generally cause false tripping and make the circuits less reliable. A simple protective system with all the extra devices left out operates so satisfactorily that the reasons for its good operation are often forgotten. The simple rules concerning protective systems in use on the Southern California Edison System that have made it possible to attain such a high standard service to its customers are reviewed in this paper."
"This paper is the result of a differential analyzer study of the starting characteristics of 2-phase induction motors. The prototype of the motors investigated is the small 2-phase machine commonly used in closed cycle control systems. The performance equations of the induction motor are solved, and summary curves based upon the conclusions reached are presented in a form useful to motor designers. No published data of this type have come to the attention of the authors. It is hoped that the results herein reported can be utilized in the design of better motors for servo applications."
"THE PHYSICAL THEORY of the characteristic oscillations of a high-voltage winding as a primary, that is, when the voltage disturbances are impressed directly across its terminals, is now well known.1 However its behavior as a secondary with respect to the disturbances is not as well known. Although papers24 have been published on this latter subject, this paper presents a physical theory believed to be novel and helpful."
"DURING the past 15 years and particularly in the past ten years, there have been many major developments in excitation systems for synchronous condensers and generators. These changes and improvements were stimulated in 1928 by the introduction of the hydrogen-cooled synchronous condenser which necessitated a reconsideration of the excitation arrangement and brought about a change from a direct-connected exciter to separate excitation. This, together with the desire to obtain maximum speed of response and to eliminate maintenance caused by moving parts associated with rotating exciters and with mechanical regulators, led to the trial of electronic applications on the systems of the American Gas and Electric Company A development program along these lines was carried on over a period of approximately 15 years and included specifically 15 exciter applications on large generators and condensers. About six years ago a review of the performance and operating experience on the machines involved in this plan resulted in the design and trial of a system using a direct-connected exciter with amplidyne control for excitation of a large synchronous condenser. Following this, four similar installations were provided. Thus there has been obtained a wide variety of experience with excitation systems and associated equipment. It is the purpose of this paper to recount these developments, describe typical installations, and discuss the operating results obtained with them."
"POWER fuses are used at many locations on transmission and industrial power systems to insure the prompt interruption of serious short-circuit currents, An engineer making such an application primarily desires assurance that the fuses will be capable of safely interrupting all magnitudes of short-circuit current up to the maximum the system can produce."
"THIS PAPER is part of an analytical study conducted for the purpose of establishing a sound fundamental interpretation of observed performance characteristics of high interrupting-capacity power fuses of the current-limiting type. Some of the more important conclusions, which have been verified by a study of test performance, are presented and discussed in the foregoing part of this paper by C. L. Schuck. In another sense this paper is an application of the analytical methods developed in the two papers on Geometry of Arc Interruption.15,16 This application to fuse performance is particularly fitting since the interval from the inception of a short circuit until the arc voltage of the fuse is introduced, may be predetermined quite accurately from the melting characteristics of the fuse. Conductor heating and energy equations are presented for the first time which include all the essential variables to predetermine the arc energy to be developed by the interrupter for various magnitudes of arc voltage, degrees of circuit asymmetry, and melting times of the fuse."
"THE ANALYZER BOARDS available at various points in the United States have afforded welcome relief from the tedious calculations which are ordinarily necessary in determining the distribution of load and reactive component in electric power networks. Since, however, they frequently are located inconveniently, power engineers still have to use longhand methods on their current problems and often have to content themselves with approximate methods, yielding less information than they would like to have. Help in the solution of these problems that arise between visits to the analyzer board can be had by making use of accounting machines of the IBM type, which usually are available to members of the light and power industry. These machines greatly expedite the calculations while retaining full accuracy of the classical method."
"THE STRIDES achieved since the early thirties in the field of system-insulation rationalization are well known in recent technical literature17 and need not be reviewed here. However, a point to emphasize is that further progress in this industry-wide problem can be attained only through continued research and studies directed particularly to the remaining major questions. In this manner it will be possible to pursue in future developments the principles of system-insulation rationalization to their fullest economic possibilities."
"RECIPROCATING steam, Diesel-electric, and electric locomotives compete today for the main-line freight and passenger assignments of Pacific Northwest railways. It is doubtful if the present struggle for dominance among the three will be influenced greatly by other types of locomotives. Reciprocating steam locomotives have occupied a position of leadership here as elsewhere in the United States since the coming of the railroad, but it is apparent that their days of unchallenged leadership are over. On the basis of physical ability to perform present and prospective tasks as well as on the basis of operating economy, steam locomotives face strong competition from Diesel-electric and electric motive power."
"A DISTINCTION is made between rural electrification and electroagriculture, the former being the art and the business of bringing electric service to the rural area and to the individual consumer in that area, the latter being the art and the business of using electric power for farming."
"This paper describes the development of low frequency and self-synchronous electric drive equipment for fatigue life testing machines. These test machines simulate the vibrating loads that result from reciprocating engines, variable air loads, and so forth. The self-synchronous feature is important because the inherent high mechanical Q of the system amplifies some 10 to 50 watts of drive power into 2,000 to 5,000 pounds of vibrating load at frequencies from 7 to 40 cycles per second. Mechanically driven types lack sufficient speed stability to maintain resonance, and this results in poor control of the specimen test load, The power requirements for large loads at high speeds are excessive. An experimental 5,000-pound machine with self-excited electromagnetic drive is described. This electric drive is low in both original and maintenance costs. The specimen load is controlled as simply as the volume on a radio receiver. A 100,000-pound machine is nearing completion and is discussed briefly."
"Prior to the war a compandor was developed for general use on telephone circuits of the Bell System. This equipment provides power range compression at the transmitting end and power range expansion at the receiving end of a telephone channel. The resulting crosstalk and noise reductions of about 25 decibels are large enough to make useful circuits out of channels which otherwise would be unworkable. This paper considers engineering problems in the application of compandors and describes the circuit principles involved in the equipment."
"THE importance of the effects of the magnitude and rate of rise of the transient recovery voltage upon the difficulty of arc interruption in circuit breakers has been recognized for a number of years. It is known that differences in the interrupting performance of circuit breakers may be obtained at different locations in power systems, even though the power-frequency voltages and short-circuit currents involved may be similar.1 In general, the greater the rate at which the transient recovery voltage builds up and the greater the final value that it attains across the arc space as the arc extinction process occurs, the more difficult it is for the circuit breaker to clear the circuit. There is not, however, any simple quantitative relationship between these transient values and the arcing time of a circuit breaker or its interrupting capacity limit. Individual short-circuit interruptions with a given circuit breaker and circuit conditions may show considerable variations in arcing time. For such and other reasons the added complication of transient recovery-voltage rate and magnitude limits has not been added to circuit breaker interrupting capacity ratings or specifications.2"
"ASYNCHRONOUS operation of synchronous machines has been the subject of numerous articles in the technical literature, for example, the articles of Fechheimer,1 Hay and Mowdawalla,2 Putman,3 Park,4 Linville,5 Lauder6. The fact that articles on this subject continue to be of primary interest to design and operating engineers is attributable to the importance of satisfactory operation at asynchronous speeds. It is only through a precise knowledge of the conditions present in asynchronous operation that machines can be designed for and operated through these asynchronous periods satisfactorily. As examples of the extreme conditions which can arise during asynchronous operation, it should be noted that stalling a synchronous machine with the field voltage applied can result in pulsating torques greater than those obtained by inadvertent synchronizing 180 out of phase;6 or that the currents in the damper bars on the trailing half of a pole can be considerably greater than the currents in the corresponding bars on the leading half of the pole, and the resulting unequal heating will influence the design of the damper winding to a considerable degree. Because of the importance of these and similar phenomena, the problem of asynchronous operation must be studied continuously until a complete, easily visualized, and easily applied solution is obtained."
"SERIES capacitors have been recognized for some time as a means of increasing the amount of power transmitted over a long transmission line and as a means of increasing the distance that alternating-current power can be transmitted economically.1 The basic concept of neutralizing any portion of the series inductive reactance of a long transmission system by means of series capacitors is theoretically sound. The practical application of series capacitors for such service introduces several new and interesting problems of system design and operation, which while capable of solution will require the attention of engineers of both the equipment manufacturers and the operating companies. It is the objective of this paper to outline system characteristics encountered when series-capacitor compensation is used, with a view toward solving the problems arising therefrom. No attempt will be made to reexamine the relative cost of transmission with and without series compensation. In fact, the cost of the compensated system will be influenced to a certain degree by the methods used to solve the problems arising through use of series compensation."
"Discussion of paper 4696 by J. E. Housley and G. N. Hughes, presented at the AIEE Southern District meeting, Asheville, N. C., May 1416, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 43641."
"Discussion of paper 46105, an AIEE committee report, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 41736."
"Discussion and closure of paper 46169, an AIEE committee report, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 74651."
"Discussion of paper 46151 by A. J. Christopher and J. A. Kater, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 6704."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46132 by W. D. Cockrell, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 61722."
"Discussion of paper 46113 by Harold Chestnut, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 5706."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46128 by H. A. Adler and K. W. Miller, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 6302."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46177 by W. H. Clagett and W. M. Leeds, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 72934."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46173 by Lloyd F. Hunt, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 9951000."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46163 by W. A. Codd, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 6948."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46112 by Charles F. Dalziel, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 57985."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46174 by W. A. Derr, W. A. Keller, and H. A. Hedke, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 699705."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46109 by H. P. Dupuis and W. E. Jacobs, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 4426."
"Discussion of paper 46121 by W. N. Eddy and W. D. Fenn, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428,1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 5768."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46117 by H. A. Frey and J. M. Jesatko, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 91120."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46107 by H. Tyler Marcy, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 5219."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46103 by Andrew Gemant and Joseph Sticher, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section pages 47582."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46130 by G. W. Heumann and W. P. Smith, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 4547."
"Discussion of paper 46146 by D. V. Edwards and E. K. Smith, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 6403."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46114 by Herbert Harris, Jr., presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 53946."
"Discussion of paper 46110 by Bun Po Kang presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 40307."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46150 by S. W. Herwald and G. D. McCann, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 6369."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46108 by R. A. Hopkins and H. J. Petersen, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 92031."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46172 by E. W. Knapp and Ben C. Hicks, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 73540."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46145 by B. W. Jones and J. A. Scott, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 6448."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46115 by L. F. Hickernell and C. J. Snyder, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 5639."
"Discussion of paper 46126 by R. Koller presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 597604."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46175 by W. W. Lewis, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 6904."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46136 by T. M. Linville, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 95665."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46118 by Edwin J. Merrell, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 60509."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46152 by J. B. McClure, S. I. Whittlesey, and M. E. Hartman, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 93945."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46176 by E. F. Miller and R. B. Miller, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTONS, 1946, November section, pages 7516."
"Discussion of paper 46166 by T. C. Lloyd and H. B. Stone, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, December section, pages 81218."
"Discussion of paper 46156 by F. E. Murray and R. C. Jones, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 7268."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46160 by John D. Piper, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, December section, pages 7917."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46165 by V. M. Montsinger and J. E. Clem, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 96673."
"Discussion of paper 46125 by K. P. Puchlowski, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946 and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 58591."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46154 by F. M. Porter and J. H. Kinghorn, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 102081."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46137 by J. J. Riley and C. E. Smith, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, December section, pages 85260."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46161 by Thomas R. Putnam, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 75761."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46140 by H. C. Steiner and H. N. Price, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 6805."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46135 by J. D. Ryder and W. B. Boast, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 67480."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46124 by J. T. Vaughan and J. W. Williamson, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 88792."
"Discussion of paper 46122 by H. R. Vaughan, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 5926."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46116 by C. N. Weygandt and S. Charp, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 100009."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46134 by O. B. Vikoren, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 76873."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46142 by W. G. Worcester and E. G. Doughty, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANS-ACTIONS, 1946, pages 94655."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46180 by B. O. Austin, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 7415."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46189 by P. L. Bellaschi and L. B. Rademacher, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 104754."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46181 by W. G. Hoover, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 108691."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46182 by C. Concordia, S. B. Gary, and F. J. Maginniss, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash. August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 97487."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46199 by R. H. Miller and E. S. Prud'homme, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, December section, pages 8247."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46196 by B. V. Hoard, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 110214."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46200 by Lloyd F. Hunt, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 7658."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46188 by Ellis Levin, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, December section, pages 77986."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46184 by M. M. Samuels, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 106573."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46104 by Graham Lee Moses and Julius J. Torok, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 41216."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4683 by W. A. Wolfe, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 45862. This paper also was presented at the South West District meeting, San Antonio, Tex., April 1618, 1946."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46144 by F. L. Lawton, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 90010."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46186 by T. M. C. Martin, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 105465."
"Discussions and authors' closure of papers 46170 and 46171 by C. L. Schuck and E. W. Boehne, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 102845."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46157 by J. S. Johnson and Conrad Weil, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 70510."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This pamphlet contains complete multientry indexes covering the entire text content of AIEE regular technical publications, as follows: 1. Electrical Engineering, monthly, sent to all members. Contains two parts: I. General articles, news, and biographical items. I I . Transactions section, containing technical-program papers presented at national and District technical meetings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Communication equipment of varied kinds and in seemingly great quantities is provided for an infantry division in the United States Army. Each item is designed with characteristics to fit it for a particular function in the over-all communication pattern. Nevertheless, as the 104th Infantry Division battled its way through Europe, many problems arose that required improvised solutions to adapt standard equipment to the needs of themoment."
"The retiring director of the National Bureau of Standards here reverses the trend of recent public statements and considers the impact of war on science, including resultant implications and obligations for research in the interests of keeping the peace."
"How industry can maintain uniformly high standards of quality in large-scale production through the use of statistical quality-control methods is discussed in this article. These methods employ sample testing for an assigned level of quality so that defects may be anticipated thus avoiding waste and assuring a more uniform and reliable final product."
"Variations in training methods employed in a shop and in a service organization are contrasted. Steps in a craft training course with easy-to-learn jobs taught first, and others according to their difficulty both of learning and performing, are outlined. Special mention is made of engineering training courses and the job instruction involved in the engineering of various kinds of telephone plant."
"Electric power now actuates 90 per cent of the accessories in modern aircraft. However, further applications and improved reliability still await future development. Some of the needs of the Army Air Forces, with a few of present applications, are given here."
"The use of control charts for action when inspection is by the methods of variables and the factors for control are averages and ranges is discussed herein. The method is illustrated by a typical application; the cutting of small sleeves from a tubing material where weight is one of the critical characteristics to be controlled."
"The membership of the Institute is now rapidly approaching 25,000. This is gratifying evidence of success, but if growth leads to inertia and success to complacency, seeming gains may be hidden losses. It is time to look at ourselves with the eye of a friendly critic."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the convention registration desk."
"Looking toward the establishment of a Subsection in the Princeton-Trenton, N. J., area, the Philadelphia Section, AIEE, held a meeting at Princeton University November 20, 1945. The attendance of 215 included 34 AIEE members from the Princeton-Trenton area and from Philadelphia proper. Others present included members"
"Standardization work concerning aeronautical electric equipment, although curtailed in some of its phases because of the conclusion of the war and resultant reorganization problems, is being carried on by the AIEE and other interested organizations. The fourth progress report dated November 8, 1945, which follows the third report (EE, Aug '45, p 303), summarizes AIEE activities and gives information concerning some others."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of December 13, 1945, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"Probable future trends in the sponsorship of research were discussed during a review of the history of research and its future course by two Honorary Members of the Institute at a meeting of the AIEE New York Section, December 5, 1945. Doctors Gano Dunn (HM '45) and F. B. Jewett (HM '45), both AIEE past presidents, presented their views of the value of research and pending legislation pertaining to its support and control."
"Engineers Joint Council's committee on the economic status of the engineer has been making studies and surveys on the general problem of the economic status of the engineer. This joint movement is the logical outgrowth of actions that have been taken previously by the individual societies to study such topics as collective bargaining in its relation to the engineering profession, pay scales for engineers, and questions pertinent to the engineer's economic status."
"The inadequacy of the 39-year old Engineering Societies Building to meet the present-day requirements of the engineering societies was emphasized again in the annual report of the United Engineering Trustees, Inc., for the year 194445 submitted to AIEE and the other participating societies by F. M. Farmer (F '13), president."
"The Engineering Foundation, established in 1914, completed its 31st fiscal year September 30, 1945, and the chairman's report of the year's activities was presented at its annual meeting by A. L. Queneau to AIEE and the other Founder Societies."
"OPERATED jointly by the AIEE and the other Founder Societies, the Engineering Societies Library, 29 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., offers a wide variety of services to members all over the world. Information about these services may be obtained on inquiry to the director."
"Plans for publication of a lighting handbook which will cover every phase of lighting from pure physics to specific lighting recommendations have been announced by the Illuminating Engineering Society, New York, N. Y. According to C. A. Atherton (M '42), development engineer of the Reynolds Metal Company, Louisville, Ky., and chairman of the handbook committee, some 500 pages of text containing the latest information on light sources will be prepared by outstanding authorities in their various respective fields."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Industrial Safety Tomorrow is the title of a booklet recently issued by the National Safety Council, which should command the attention of every engineer who is in any way identified with the industrial life of the United States. The booklet presents a report on a program for safety in industry, made by a committee of 51 representing 38 national organizations which had indicated interest in sponsoring such a program for the postwar period. AIEE is represented on the committee by W. R. Smith (F '30) chairman of its committee on safety"
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"GUN-CHARGING DEVICES are used to actuate the mechanism of automatic machine guns and cannon. This is required initially in order to prepare the weapon for automatic operation, or when misfire, misfeed, or any such malfunction renders the gun inoperative. It should be noted that automatic guns depend upon the force of recoil, gas pressure generated by the exploding cartridge, or both, to perform the task of extracting and ejecting the spent cartridge and delivering a live round into the chamber. The operation of charging consists of retracting the breech block for a stroke of from seven to ten inches, depending upon the caliber of gun, and then releasing it to return unimpeded to battery under the force of the block-driving spring. Extraction, ejection, feeding, and cocking occur by means of cams, pawls, and levers actuated by movement of the breech block as in normal firing."
"THE GOVERNOR described herein was designed for application on aircraft inverters, to hold the speed and, consequently, the output frequency substantially constant. While such a governor may be used on a variety of d-c motors, the discussion is confined to the operation of controlling the speed of a d-c motor which drives an a-c generator."
"IN OSCILLOGRAPHIC STUDIES where it is necessary to measure current in the range of from 5 to 100 kiloamperes, one must often resort to the use of shunts, because"
"THE ELECTRIC LOADS of early aircraft were small and the electric systems resembled those commonly used in automobiles. As the design of aircraft progressed, however, additional demands upon the electric system exceeded the capacity of the 14-volt d-c system, and a 28-volt d-c system was developed. Continued increases in electrical demands were met by increased generator ratings and parallel operation of generators at 28 volts direct current. As loads and aircraft sizes increased, the 28-volt d-c system became increasingly heavy to the point where it was obvious that a more economical generating and distributing system would be required."
"This paper contains an analysis of the oil temperature rise of water-cooled power transformers. It is shown that by factoring the effect of viscosity oil temperatures can be calculated more accurately for a variety of conditions. Equations and curves are given with supporting test data for determining the temperature rise for different loads, ingoing water temperatures, and rates of water flow. The variations in temperature rise with load, water rate, and water temperature are appreciably different from published data on the subject. A discussion of winding hot-spot temperature is included, although no new test data are given."
"IN DESIGNING an electric-power line the choice of conductor depends on several factors such as mechanical strength, corona loss, reactance, and resistance. In the early years of electric-power transmission and distribution, a size of conductor was chosen which was considered the best in view of all the requirements. At present so many different types of line conductors are available that each feature can be provided for almost independently. Thus, a core of steel or bronze may be specified to provide the required mechanical strength; a hollow conductor may be chosen to avoid corona and to reduce the reactance; and the resistance, that is the current density, may be chosen according to the cost of resistance loss or according to temperature rise."
"SPOT WELDING consists essentially of clamping two pieces of sheet metal between two copper electrodes and passing through the pieces an electric current of sufficient strength to fuse them together at the spot where the current is most concentrated. Spot welding is the simplest of the electric resistance-welding processes which depend upon the Joule effect, H = I2RT, for the generation of heat. The total resistance, R, in spot welding consists of the body resistance of the metal between the electrodes plus the sum of the sheet-to-sheet and electrode-to-sheet contact resistances. The purpose of this paper is to report to the electrical-engineering profession on recent investigations of the electrical resistance of these contacts and the importance of these resistances in the spot-welding process."
"On asynchronous or start-stop telegraph circuits of extended length it frequently becomes necessary to insert at repeater points signal regenerative devices to reduce the cumulative effects of fortuitous distortion. Regeneration is a process of signal scanning by a succession of accurately timed impulses whose phase is as nearly as possible independent of the phase variations of the signal impulses. In one form of a mechanical regenerator, reception of a start signal transition permits the engagement of a brush arm with a continuously rotating constant-speed shaft. The signal polarity then is determined at the instant of contact of the brush with commutator segments that are short in comparison with the signal period. Following retransmission of the signal the brush arm is disengaged from the shaft and held on a stop to await the arrival of the start transition of a second character. Mechanical regenerators have been developed to a high level of performance, accompanied by some complexity and the need for skillful maintenance. This paper describes an electric signal regenerator utilizing the time of delay of a recurrent filter network to generate the scanning impulses, which together with the electrical equivalents of the start and stop functions provide a regenerative repeater without mechanism. The composition of an illustrative teleprinter signal character and its peculiar susceptibility to interfering line currents is discussed. The development and the electric characteristics of the delay network are described, and an explanation of the regeneration of the signal character by the device is given."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Prior to the 18th century little serious scientific interest had been aroused by electrical phenomena. However, when Benjamin Franklin, in 1746, began experimenting with electrical effects he initiated much productive activity in the field and, in fact, in later years was known as the father of electricity. This article presents a discussion of early electrical discoveries by Franklin and his contemporaries. Excerpts from letters and publications then current afford an insight into scientific thought of the period."
"WITH THE COMPLETION of its present construction program the United States Coast Guard will maintain a fleet of 13 turbine-electric a-c vessels having complete automatic control from the pilot house. They also are provided with either automatic or manual control from the engine room. Propulsion motors and generators are of minimum size because the use of regulated stability and automatic synchronizing permits the machines to be designed with very little inherent torque margin. Most of the vital propulsion auxiliaries are driven by motors taking power from a transformer connected to the propulsion bus and operate at from 90 to 15 cycles with facilities for transfer to a 60-cycle bus."
"During recent years the influence of electronics on process measurement and control instruments has been evidenced by a great increase in electric measuring instruments. The author of this article analyzes the characteristics of these new instruments in general and, by way. of illustration, describes several specific products and their operation. Comparisons of electronic instruments with the corresponding mechanical types indicate the prospective applications for each."
"The United States Military Academy now has a 140-position electronics laboratory in which future Army officers are given instruction in a field that has greatly influenced modern warfare. Provision is made for supply from central sources, to each student position, of alternating and direct voltages, including radio frequencies up to 18 megacycles per second, with suitable protective measures."
"This article discusses acceptance sampling plans used in inspections performed by the method of attributes including single sampling, double sampling, and multiple sampling. It presents a number of typical operating characteristics of sampling plans."
"A gigantic calculating machine, designed to solve mathematical problems that ordinarily would take trained computers many weeks, has been developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge. This new instrument deals with problems involving rates of change among variable quantities and employs a physical system representing numbers. Problems with as manj as 18 variables can be solved"
"J. E. Housley, district power manager, Aluminum Company of America, Alcoa, Tenn., was nominated for the AIEE presidency for the year 194647 by the nominating committee at its meeting in New York, N. Y., January 22, 1946. Others named on the official ticket of candidates for the Institute offices that will become vacant August 1, 1946, are:"
"To expedite the work that it has undertaken in the study and evaluation of AIEE activities and professional relationships, the AIEE committee on planning and coordination secured the approval of the board of directors at its October 1945 meeting to establish a temporary full-time paid staff of one person to act as assistant secretary for the committee. Accordingly, in December the committee acquired the services of William H. Schlasman (A '25) who will devote his entire time to the committee's current project (p. 86)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of January 17, 1946, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections of these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"Rudiments of the planning of electric wiring for the farmstead and for the single-family dwelling are covered in two pamphlets recently published and now available for distribution by the Industry Committee on Interior Wiring Design, Room 2650, 420 Lexington Avenue, New York 17, N. Y. The committee personnel includes representatives of appropriate branches of electrical industry. The project as a whole has been sponsored jointly by: American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Home Lighting Institute, American Society of Agricultural Engineers, Edison Electric Institute, Illuminating Engineering Society, International Association of Electrical Inspectors, National Electrical Contractors Association, National Electrical Manufacturers Association, National Electrical Wholesalers Association, and Radio Manufacturers Association."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in dnplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"DURING THE DEVELOPMENT of the original low-voltage a-c-network distribution system, preliminary studies indicated that the use of a relatively large number of medium-sized distribution transformers would provide the most flexible and most economical arrangement. Furthermore, very satisfactory operating experience with network systems of this type gave consider-able justification for their use."
"COAXIAL LINES with solid dielectric often are used as feeders. Such lines have appreciable attenuation (of the order of 1.5 decibels per 100 feet at 100 megacycles per second). Application of standing-wave method of finding the receiving-end impedance, as based on the assumption of lossless transmission line, would introduce an appreciable error, increasing with the length of the line used. The purpose of this paper is to show how by the application of the standard transmission-line theory the standing-wave method of measuring impedance can be extended to the case of transmission lines with attenuation, if the appropriate corrections are introduced. As seen from this point of view, the paper brings together and somewhat systematizes information available in the existing technical literature."
"A method of measuring ignition voltages with a cathode-ray oscillograph is described. Magneto and spark-plug voltage oscillograms covering several consecutive firing pulses were taken on a complete aircraft magneto ignition system under several engine operating conditions. Oscillograms taken with spark plugs firing in air show differences when compared with engine tests. An improved electronic oscillograph has been developed which is well adapted for ignition measurements."
"SINCE THE PROCESS of metallic arc welding was discovered, some of this welding has been done with alternating current. The fact that a transformer, with no moving parts and its resultant simplicity, could be used always has made the use of alternating current for welding desirable. When only bare welding electrodes were available, it was necessary to have a welding transformer with the secondary voltage so high as to be dangerous to the operator. Even with this high open-circuit voltage, the arc with the bare electrode was so unstable that it was very difficult to maintain. Consequently, the transformer was never popular as a power source for welding until the bare welding electrodes had been replaced by the modern coated electrode."
"THE Test Code for Polyphase Induction Machines, AIEE Standard 500, paragraphs 50 to 58 inclusive, contains complete instructions for making temperature tests and reads in part as follows:"
"A THOROUGHLY TESTED light-weight circuit breaker for the 208Y-120-volt 3-phase 400-cycle a-c system for large aircraft is now a reality. The circuit breaker is electrically operated, remotely controlled, with latched-in main contacts. The design is suitable for paralleling generators and busses, circuit interruption, manual or automatic synchronization, and interlocks are provided for use in various control circuits. Operating solenoids are designed for low current requirements and for wide ranges of voltages and ambient temperatures. Size and weight have been kept to a minimum."
"IN THE PAST, few electrical-engineering curricula have offered the under-graduate student more than the rudiments in the study of electric transients. Even today many engineering schools offer such courses only as graduate work. The result is that most engineering graduates confronted with such problems in connection with their work must acquire such information by self study and experience."
"THE LIGHTNING performance of high-voltage transmission lines in the nominal 220-kv class was presented in a paper1 before the Institute in 1935. That report presented data on the construction of these lines as well as their operating performance from a lightning viewpoint. There were then only ten companies operating transmission lines in the 220-kv class, and the significant data on all these companies' lines were reported."
"THE upward trend in illumination levels in industrial plants has resulted in an increased power demand of the lighting load. Illumination levels of 50 foot-candles are in general considered good practice at the present time, with some thinking of illumination levels as high as 100 foot-candles. The lighting load is a sizable portion of the total plant load. In many average manufacturing plants the lighting load will represent 2 to 4 volt-amperes per square foot, and the power load 8 to 10 volt-amperes per square foot. The same technique that has been applied in distributing power to machine tools and other power loads will pay dividends in distributing power to the lighting load."
"Fundamental problems involved in the cooling and rating of aircraft electric machinery at medium and high altitudes are discussed in this paper, primarily to assist users in the application of such equipment, and to assist builders in designing equipment to meet the requirements. In addition flight tests are reported which confirm in part the blast-tube theory developed in a previous paper. For blast-cooled generators, an equation has been developed to show the maximum permissible output in terms of entering-air temperature and density, ramming-head pressure, and winding temperature. For motors curves of total winding temperature at rated load have been plotted as a function of altitude; these curves were plotted for selected values of sea-level temperature rise. Specific conclusions are drawn as to:"
"This paper describes the application of the transient analyzer to the solution of servomechanism problems by the electrical-mechanical analogy method. The analogies for angular position servomechanisms are developed in detail together with the fundamental concepts by which the systems can be defined in terms of dimension-less parameters. This permits the results to be given in dimensionless form suitable for general application. Typical solutions of representative systems are given in the form of transient response curves. These show the response characteristics for suddenly applied constant velocity and sinusoidal motion. Also shown are the effects of varying the controlling parameters of the system including the stiffness constant, one, two, and three time delays, and methods of producing system stability including negative RC feed-back and anticipatory control. A method is developed for setting up the analogy for a specific system on the transient analyzer by a suitable change in time and impedance bases."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"During World War II the United States Army developed a system of world-wide communications unexcelled in scope, both technically and geographically. The author describes some of these improvements and suggests immediate steps to insure the development of a comparable commercial communications system in recognition of the great contribution that instantaneous communication can make to international relations."
"Central station power, Thomas Edison's outstanding accomplishment, thus far has met the test of economic practicality and commercial success, but its relative economy and dependability in an ever-expanding industrial system presents one of the main problems of the postwar era. Additional problems are posed by the possibilities of atomic energy, although just how great a role it can play in the power generation field probably will not be determined for some time."
"A review of selected historical highlights of the efforts which culminated in the development of the atomic bomb and its challenge for the future."
"THE EXTENT to which the foregoing 1940 concepts have been vindicated or exceeded is now a matter of history in the record of the now famous Manhattan Project which culminated in the successful development of the so-called atomic bomb. In addition to military implications attention now is turning to the potential industrial uses of nuclear energy. This seems to be an appropriate time, therefore, to review the basic concepts as now understood, especially the more rudimentary ones which usually are taken for granted in a specific technical treatise."
"THE following chronology of selected events especially pertintent to the realization of the alchemists' dream of the centuries is intended to present only a typical cross section of the manifold aspects of the war-stimulated nuclear research. Inevitably, in a brief report on so ramified a project, many important aspects of the famous Manhattan Project and its predecessor and related enterprises are not reported here. Continuing security regulations, too, still prevent discussion of some of the aspects which would be of especial interest to engineers."
"A simple measure of quality in which the percentage ratio of defective units to total units is calculated usually is adequate for simple products where inspection covers only a few characteristics, but where many characteristics are involved the method is not satisfactory. This article discusses classification of defects according to seriousness and outlines methods of rating quality based upon such classification."
"A varied program has been arranged for the South West District meeting and Student Branch convention to be held in San Antonio, Tex., April 1618, 1946. The program will include several technical sessions, some general sessions, interesting inspection trips, and entertainment. In addition luncheon meetings are planned for the District executive committee and for the District committee on Student activities. Meeting headquarters will be in the Plaza Hotel."
"Preparations are now in process for a meeting of the North Eastern District to be held in Buffalo, N. Y., April 2426, 1946, with meeting headquarters in the Hotel Statler. As this will be the first postwar meeting of the District the local committee plans to include many outstanding features on the program."
"Unprecedented attendance marked the first of the AIEE postwar conventions, held in New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946. Registration reached the all-time high of 2,624, topping the previous record registration of 1,931 persons at Philadelphia, Pa., in January 1941. A fuller program of social activities also reflected the change from wartime to peacetime."
"The Edison Medal, highest honor of the AIEE, was awarded for 1945 to Philip Sporn (F '30) executive vice-president, American Gas and Electric Service Corporation, New York, N. Y., for his contributions to the art of economical and dependable power generation and transmission. The award was made on January 23, 1946, at a general session of the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y."
"Continuing the practice of recent years, a joint evening session was held during the AIEE winter convention with the Institute of Radio Engineers which was meeting concurrently in New York. During the first portion of the program, presided over by AIEE President William E. Wickenden, the Hoover Medal was presented to AIEE Past President William Henry Harrison (F '31) executive vice-president in charge of operation and engineering, American Telephone and Telegraph Company, New York, N. Y., and formerly major general, Army of the United States. The second portion of the program, under the chairmanship of IRE President W. L. Everitt (F '36), was devoted to an address, Some Electrical Engineering and General Aspects of the Atomic Bomb Project, delivered by Major General Leslie R. Groves."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A dinner meeting in honor of Vladimir Karapetoff (F '12) emeritus professor of electrical engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y., was held by Eta Kappa Nu, honorary electrical engineering fraternity in New York, N. Y., on January 21, 1946, on the occasion of his 70th birthday."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"A method for investigating the starting characteristics of an arc in d-c arc welding was developed and equipment was designed and built to simulate the behavior of an operator in starting such an arc. This testing equipment was used to compare the arc striking ability and the arc freezing tendency of an electrode when used with various types of welding generators. It was found that the determining factor is the electrode contact duration, that is, the time during which the operator leaves electrode and work in contact when he attempts to start an arc. Generators, to be satisfactory, should permit at least 40 milliseconds contact duration. Where the permissible contact duration between work and electrode is less than 40 milliseconds, only experienced welders are able to start an arc. Less trained men freeze the electrode to the work piece in a large percentage of their attempts. Five generators of different design were tested with the apparatus. Oscillograms of the current surge during the contact period were taken and the freezing point marked on the curves. It was found that the location of the freezing point depends on the shape of the current surge. Characteristics of a welding generator as developed in these tests which yield good striking and nonfreezing results are not contradictory to good general welding characteristics."
"THE ADVENT of electric strain gauges1 suitable for the measurement of mechanical performance on a strength basis not only has widened the field of the electrical engineer with regard to equipment and techniques but gradually has imposed upon him a responsibility to the aeronautical or mechanical engineer in his role as interpreter. For if the designer turns to electric strain gauges (and by this is meant herein the bonded wire gauge,2 unless otherwise stated) for verification of his work, it is only natural for him eventually to leave the whole problem of gauge operation and data analysis to the electrical engineer. It is essential that both the man who measures and the man to whom the measurements are reported clearly understand the scope of their separate responsibilities. Otherwise there may exist a gap which will destroy the accuracy necessary to the honest affirmation or negation of the design. Accordingly, the authors here endeavor to present the strength evaluation problem broadly enough for one working in a relatively narrow element of it to appreciate the requirements of the whole, while emphasizing the electrical aspects primarily and keeping always in sharp focus the prime requisite, accuracy."
"THE system of bus protection using linear couplers, or air-core mutual reactors, in place of current transformers was described before the Institute in January 1942.1 By special design the mutual reactors were made astatic or insensitive to outside fields. Through the use of air core the troublesome problem of saturation of iron by the d-c transient component of short-circuit current was eliminated. At the same time adequate energy was derived for decisive relay operation. The coupler secondaries were connected in a series loop including the relay to form a bus protective system."
"Volt-ampere characteristics of 60-cycle arcs in still air with lengths and currents such as occur in power systems have been investigated under laboratory conditions. The arcs varied in peak current from 68 to 21,750 amperes and in length from 1/8 to 48 inches. Typical oscillograms and volt-ampere curves of these tests are presented. The voltage gradient in the arc is affected very little by current magnitude. Throughout the entire range all gradients remained between 21.5 and 50 volts per inch, with 35 per cent of all values in a 5 volt per inch interval having an average value of 34 volts per inch. The increase in apparent gradient due to voltage drop at the electrodes was found to be negligible where the arc length exceeds several feet. The decrease in short-circuit current of a power system through a series arc as compared with that for the same system with a metallic short circuit has been investigated. Data are presented showing the actual reductions observed for various conditions of circuit voltage and impedance."
"The Rototrol has been applied in considerable numbers to a wide variety of industrial applications. It has met adequately the need for a simple and reliable regulator which is capable of withstanding the rigors of general industrial usage and which is sufficiently elemental in operation that it can be understood by nontechnical maintenance personnel. It has been accepted enthusiastically by industry, and applications in both existing and new fields are increasing rapidly. This paper discusses the fundamental theory of the Rototrol, the application of the circuits most commonly used, and cites operating results for typical installations."
"THIS PAPER is written to encourage thinking and development on the subject of thermal-demand-meter testing procedures with specific reference to the development of shorter testing techniques. Conventional test methods in the past have involved relatively long periods of load holding to bring the meters under test to thermal equilibrium for the calibration check and adjustment. With the increasing use of thermal meters it is desirable to use some testing method which more nearly resembles tests on watt-hour meters. This paper outlines three general methods for shortening the test time and leaves to the reader the choice of the method, or modification of it, best suited to his requirements."
"The continuous process of coating fabrics with rubber, such as is used in tire manufacturing, involves several individual machines that present operating problems not met successfully by mechanical drives. A new co-ordinated electric drive has been developed which does meet these requirements using amplidyne, and also electronic, control. It is expected that quality and production will be improved by this equipment. The means employed may be applied successfully to other industries."
"A new crystal channel filter for use in broad band carrier telephone systems is described. It requires less than two-thirds as much mounting space as the earlier design and savings in materials and manufacturing effort are realized. These savings were made possible by assembling the four crystal units in one lattice-type filter section rather than two, resulting in a reduction in the number of component coils and capacitors."
"FOR some years now, it has been a common practice to die cast the squirrel cages of induction motor rotors. The die cast rotor has many advantages of simplicity, ruggedness, and durability as well as low cost. One feature of die castings is the tendency for all castings to have a perfect outside surface even though the interior may contain voids, blow holes, or porosity. This feature is an advantage when the appearance of the die cast article is of primary importance. However, in an electric rotor, it is a disadvantage as no visual inspection methods will disclose a faulty interior which may affect the electrical performance."
"A series capacitor is best protected from overvoltage during fault by a gap having low arc drop with no tendency to cut off. In this manner the capacitor is not subjected to repetitive voltage peaks during fault, and high current oscillations in the circuit formed by the capacitor and gap are minimized. A special design of graphite gap with self-centering arc characteristics is described. A new type of by-pass switch is also described for automatically by-passing the gap and series capacitor and removing the by-pass after the fault has cleared. The switch shown provides an inherent time delay on closing thus allowing time for the capacitor to discharge through the gap and avoid damage to the switch contacts. The switch also provides time delay on reopening thus eliminating the necessity for a holding means which has been a problem always with magnetic contactors in this application. The motive power for closing the switch is derived from a sealed bellows using high resistance metal and containing a volatile liquid. The passage of current through the bellows changes the vapor pressure and furnishes the forces required to operate the switch. A device of this type is not subject to damage by steep wave front surges associated with the discharge of the capacitor through the protective gap, nor is it damaged by intermittent line faults. The combination of this gap and switch has many advantages over a conventional gap and magnetic contactor and should permit a more general application of series capacitors to distribution circuits."
"The equipment described is able to show on the screen of an oscilloscope the cyclic hysteresis loop of a sample of magnetic-recording wire a little over one inch long and 0.004 inch in diameter. Results obtained with the equipment in studying recording wires are given. A discussion is included of the operation of the equipment, and of possible modifications."
"The memory oscillograph described in this paper is used for obtaining photographic records of randomly occurring electric transients. This instrument differs from other oscillographs of the memory type1,2 in that its operation is completely automatic. Forty sets of oscillograms can be recorded without the aid of an operator. Because of this feature, such an oscillograph may be used for monitoring electrical systems in which sporadic circuit disturbances are to be studied. The unit consists essentially of three cathode-ray tubes with associated power supply, a saw-tooth oscillator to provide the horizontal time axis, amplifiers for the vertical deflection circuits, a beam blanking circuit, and an automatic camera. When the memory oscillograph is in operation, the cathode ray tubes are continuously excited. The vertical deflection circuits of the tubes are connected to the voltages to be investigated, and each tube screen carries a cathode-ray pattern characteristic of the voltage applied to its vertical deflection plates. Upon the occurrence of a transient pulse, the camera shutter is released and the electronic beams of the cathode ray tubes are interrupted. The camera then records the persistence of fluorescence, which is characteristic of the material used on the tube screens. In this way a record is obtained of electric events that occurred previous to the opening of the shutter. To insure successful operation, the component parts of the automatic memory oscillograph must be electrically co-ordinated and controlled. The sequence of functions performed by a control circuit for this purpose is described. Photographic records of transients which may arise during the operation of a mercury-arc polyphase inverter are included."
"A method is presented to calculate the size of core and windings of a capacitor discharge welding transformer required to supply a given welding current. It is further shown how the resistance and inductance of a certain welder can be determined from oscillograms of the current and voltage. The mathematical derivation of the formulas used is included."
"PHONOGRAPH reproducers, which convert the mechanical motion of the stylus to a corresponding electric voltage, have been in commercial use for the past two decades. They have employed a wide variety of voltage generators such as carbon microphone buttons, variable reluctance magnetic circuits, moving coils in magnetic fields, and Rochelle salt crystals. Although excellent performance has been obtained with many of these types, there has been a continued effort to reduce the mass of the moving system and to simplify the mechanical construction, even to the extent of sacrificing output voltage."
"The application of the AIEE Test Code for Synchronous Machines in field testing of hydroelectric generators is discussed, and the preferred method of making certain tests is indicated, together with reasons for its selection. Methods of making acceptance tests on turbines are outlined in sufficient detail to establish the fundamental theory, and the electrical measurements on the generator required to establish the generator input for the hydraulic test, are listed, with brief reference to the accuracy required, and to means of obtaining it. Rating and other hydraulic tests on hydro-electric units are also described."
"SINCE the extinction of the arc drawn upon opening an a-c switch depends upon a rapid transition of the arc near a normal current zero from a conducting to an insulating state, much study has been given by switch designers to this transition, often referred to as dielectric recovery. However, the published experimental data with regard to the mechanism of this dielectric recovery still are meager and there is no generally agreed upon theory, even for the simpler cases. One simple case, of growing importance in this country, is that of the arc in an air-blast circuit breaker. Perhaps the simplest arrangement is found in the nozzle type of air-blast breaker variously described as radial blast or axial blast. Figure 1 is illustrative of such nozzles, somewhat reduced from practical forms."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"PROGRESS in nuclear research was reviewed in Electrical Engineering for March. In cognizance of the fact that atomic energy may be potentially as valuable an instrument of peace as it was of war, the following supplemental articles are presented, reflecting the views of recognized authorities concerning the role of atomic power in the postwar world, with particular emphasis on possible applications and the economics involved. The articles are based on addresses prepared by C. G. Suits (M '41) vice-president and director, research laboratory, General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., Philip W. Swain, editor, Power, McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, Inc., New York, N. Y., and J. A. Hutcheson, associate director, research laboratories, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, East Pittsburgh, Pa., for the symposium on nuclear energy held during the recent AIEE winter convention in New York."
"BLUNTLY STATED, this article attempts to reach economic conclusions regarding atomic power without possessing the essential data. The Smyth report left much unsaid. Since Smyth, no significant new facts have been made public. The vast atomic-energy literature of this post-Smyth period is either a restatement of Smyth, a presentation of what was public knowledge before Smyth, an interpretation, or a prediction. For sound reasons of national security, all further information of fundamental character has been kept secret."
"IT IS ONLY SINCE THE TURN of the century that the general subject of nuclear physics has been advanced to its present state. Prior to World War II much research and investigation had been carried on in this field with the result that some of the potentialities locked within the atom were becoming apparent to a few individuals. Books had been written which contained enough information to make people in engineering fields generally aware that the application of atomic energy in the field of the generation of electric power might some day be a possibility."
"ELECTRIC UTILITY SYSTEMS on the North American continent derive their power supply predominantly from generating stations of either the steam-electric or hydroelectric type. It happens that in some utilities the one type predominates, while in others it may be almost or even completely absent. Consequently, the system engineer and power plant designer may acquire a full familiarity with the problems of location, design, and interconnection with the system of the one type of plant, while being less familiar with the problems associated with the other. It is assumed that the readers of this article are fully familiar with steam-electric plant problems, but would be interested in a general outline of some of the variations encountered in hydroelectric plant design."
"THIS electrical essay is presented for the recreation of the reader. Can you find the error in the following reasoning?"
"Gas turbines as power plants for airplanes now are providing competition for the highly developed reciprocating engine. They may utilize only the thrust of the exhaust gases as a jet engine, drive a conventional propeller, or combine the two actions. Comparison of the three reveals their relative advantages and fields of application."
"The Niagara Frontier Section will be host to a three-day meeting of the North Eastern District and Student Branch convention to be held in Buffalo, N. Y., April 2426, 1946. Meeting headquarters will be in the Hotel Statler. As this is the first postwar meeting of the District, the local committee has arranged an exceptionally complete program of both professional and social events, together with inspection trips, to make the meeting an outstanding one."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Asheville, high in the mountains of North Carolina, will be host to a three-day meeting of the Southern District and Student Branch convention, May 1416, 1946. Headquarters will be in the Grove Park Inn."
"The regular meeting of the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was held at Institute headquarters, New York, on Thursday, January 24, 1946."
"The above view of the Ford Rouge Plant is indicative of the industrial background of the forthcoming summer convention to be held in Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, with headquarters at the Statler Hotel."
"Full text of a progress report prepared by the AIEE planning and co-ordination committee's professional activities subcommittee; T. G. LeClair (F '40) chairman, M. S. Coover (F '42), W. S. Hill (M '30), B. D. Hull (F '39), and F. E. Sanford (M '34)"
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, Buffalo, N. Y., April 2426, 1946 and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the meeting registration desk."
"THE development of thin permalloy tape and its use in cores have resulted from the increasing need for efficient magnetic structures at high frequencies. For some time for example, the trend in the telephone plant has been to the use of higher frequencies in the longer distance toll circuits. The reason is that these permit the simultaneous transmission of a larger number of telephone conversations over a single conducting circuit. The coaxial transmission system developed before the outbreak of the war, operates over the range of about 64 to 3,200 kilocycles and required transformers for repeater amplifiers and terminals capable of passing this wide band efficiently. Eddy current effects at these frequencies preclude the use in such transformers of magnetic material in conventional thicknesses."
"THE development and testing of inertia-type transducers require equipment similar to the artificial ear used in the testing of air conduction receivers."
"This paper deals with the theory and design of magnetic inertia throat microphones. Especial attention is given to the treatment of sound power and high articulation throat microphones. The sound power microphones described contain a double frequency, undamped vibrating system, while the high articulation microphones have damping introduced, which reduces the low frequency peak with resultant increase in articulation. Wide range frequency response is obtained from the neighborhood of 100 cycles, extending up to 3,000, 4,000, or 5,000 cycles, as may be desired. These microphones have a band pass filter character with a sharp high frequency cutoff. This cutoff is desirable in order to cut out high frequency noises."
"IN 1926, Messrs. Doherty and Nickle presented their classic paper on Synchronous Machines giving a complete and thorough analysis. Since many fractional horsepower engineers have occasion to design small reluctance motors (synchronous motors without field excitation) and these engineers in general have no need of becoming thoroughly familiar with the great and extensive field of synchronous motor theory, it has seemed advisable to simplify the equations from this famous paper by eliminating the terms having to do with field current and to arrange them in the form of a simple calculation sheet. It also has been found possible by the use of calculated curves to arrange a simple method of calculating the synchronous pull-out torque."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A partial reorganization of the Department of Commerce and ASA facilities for preparation of standards which was set in motion by a report of the Policy Committee on Standards appointed by Secretary of Commerce Henry Wallace in 1945 places Government approval on voluntary action by industrial groups as the most desirable basis for determining industrial and consumer standards."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"A prerequisite for the successful parallel operation of main engine driven a-c generators is suitable infinitely variable-ratio transmission and high speed governor to control it. This paper describes the development of such a governor and its successful operation on a developmental two-generator 400-cycle a-c system."
"The preliminary planning necessary to estimate the amount of current to be interrupted on a large network for staged tests under short-circuit conditions is outlined, also the precautions necessary to keep the applied fault from developing into a total system interruption. The circuit breakers under test are identified, various quantities required for record, and the means of obtaining the same are discussed. The results of a number of tests are given as well as a general discussion as to the conditions of the tests and of results obtained."
"A multiple-point potentiometer recorder for thermocouples is described having a slidewire driven to balance by a small induction motor powered from a 6L6 electron tube. The preamplifier gain is sufficient that the conventional input transformer (voltage step-up type) is not required, and thus a high impedance input circuit is made available. This permits the use of small capacitance values in the RC circuits for signal filtering and motor damping. The relation of this to the short balancing time (1.5 seconds) is discussed. Spectroscopy supplied the incentive for the development of two additional but similar recorders. The first of these is a curve-drawing multiple-range microampere recorder with the smallest range 0.5 micro-ampere, and with a balancing time of less than 1.0 second. The second is a multiple-range current-ratio recorder requiring only about 10 microamperes for the reference current."
"IN the comparatively brief history of its development, the radar art has passed quickly through the general practitioner stage into the stage of many specialists. Today there are a dozen or more highly developed fields of specialization, all essential to the development of a new radar system. Each of these fields has its own basic science foundations and its engineering technology, and as soon as security conditions permit, each will have its own literature. To tie these several fields together calls for systems engineering and planning. The over-all characteristics and performance of a radar system are dependent both on the excellence of the component parts and the nicety with which they are fitted together to perform the desired function. It is the purpose of the present paper to discuss some of these systems engineering considerations, with examples of practical solutions that have been found, leaving to the specialists in the several fields the more detailed and exact exposition of their respective arts."
"Certain defects inherent in the usual design of wire recorder heads are pointed out. Some defects are of a practical nature and one is based on theoretical considerations. An improved design is proposed on which a limited amount of experience has been obtained. A natural modification of this design permits level-winding across the record-playback head, thus distributing the wear and resulting in a head that is virtually self cleaning."
"AIR CIRCUIT BREAKERS rapidly are becoming the standard of the industry for voltages up to 15,000 volts and for kilovolt-ampere ratings of 50,000 to 500,000 kva. Their general desirability as compared to oil-type switchgear is now recognized by most users."
"THE TREND of the past few years and studies of future trends indicate an oncoming demand for higher interrupting capacities and decreased interrupting and reclosing times. Today there may be relatively few applications which justify these more severe requirements, but there is every indication that as time passes they will become more and more universal."
"Shoran navigational radar is generally credited with being the most precise system of its type devised by man. The history of the conception and development of the principles employed, as well as a description of the physical make-up of the equipment, are of interest. Recent military declassification permits the exposition of both as set forth in this paper."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This first part of a two-part article presents a general picture of what has been accomplished thus far in Mexico's effort to solve its power problem as the first step toward industrialization. Part I concentrates on the present status of the Mexican electrical industry and the reasons for its belated development. It includes a discussion of plans for the future which call for an increase during the next four years of 53 per cent over the capacity of existing installations."
"Many products of wartime research and development will find a productive place in the postwar world. Some of these, such as radar, the gyroscopic stabilizer, and various new materials already are in the evolutionary stage with definite applications in sight; the potentialities of others, including the most sensational development, nuclear energy, are being explored actively."
"The use of radar as a defensive warning signal and guide for antiaircraft fire as well as a control for offensive warfare was one of the chief advantages enjoyed by the Allies during World War II. In the postwar world, however, radar will have even more far-reaching effects as the most important element in the development of a completely safe navigation and traffic control system for both sea and air."
"This article explains the characteristics and operating principles of the amplidyne generator by comparison with a conventional d-c generator. The fact that the amplidyne possesses the requirements for a perfect electric regulator, high amplification and fast speed of response, is emphasized, and several applications are described which illustrate the amplidyne's versatility."
"A deicing or ice-prevention unit, comprised mainly of wrought iron pipe and an electrical heating element, has been devised by the Cleveland Railway Company, Cleveland, Ohio, to prevent track switches from freezing. Wrought iron was selected because of corrosive conditions encountered, especially from salt which is used to clear streets of ice and snow."
"For the 61st annual summer convention of the AIEE, to be held in Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, the summer convention committee has planned a program of entertainment, inspection trips, and recreation complementing the excellent technical sessions, which should enhance the attraction of the convention as a vacation as well as a benefit professionally. Convention head-quarters will be at the Hotel Statler located in the heart of downtown Detroit."
"Re-establishing its program of District meetings and Student Branch conventions, the AIEE South West District met at the Plaza Hotel in San Antonio, Tex., April 1618, 1946, the South Texas Section acting as host with the collaboration of the Houston Section. The total registration of 366 exceeded the committee's expectations by a substantial margin, and indicates a wide and healthy interest and participation in AIEE affairs in the South West. All Sections, Subsections, and Student Branches were represented, although there was insufficient time for the development of a complete Student program and full Student participation. Registration statistics are given in accompanying tabulations."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"At its January meeting the AIEE board of directors adopted a resolution declaring that the AIEE recognizes the registration of engineers as a continuing practice and the Model Law for the Registration of Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors' as adopted in 1943 and amended in 1945, as the widely accepted basis of its administration, and that the Institute endorses these procedures as well established. In line with this endorsement, the board approved a recommendation that the special AIEE committee on registration of engineers be replaced by a standing committee."
"As of March 27, 1946, the following interim reports were received by the AIEE committee on planning and co-ordination and released by Chairman James F. Fairman for publication. These reports were presented by Mr. Fairman to the April 10 meeting of the executive committee of the board of directors at headquarters in New York, N. Y."
"Standard definitions, standard tests, and a standard language of numbers for identifying on drawings and on the devices themselves the many complicated devices making up a complete equipment are given in the revised American Standard for Automatic Station Control, Supervisory, and Telemetering Equipment, C37.21945. The new standard also includes a table indicating the minimum protection that should be given to power apparatus and feeders."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE Southern District meeting, Asheville, N. C., May 1416, 1946, and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at the meeting registration desk."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The first community in America to be lighted by a-c electricity, Great Barrington, Mass., observed the 60th anniversary of the event March 23, 1946, when Governor Maurice J. Tobin unveiled a plaque memorializing the achievement of William Stanley and George Westinghouse."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"The development of the betatron, which accelerates electrons by magnetic induction making possible the production of higher energy X rays than is practical by the direct application of the accelerating potential, has extended the range of X rays indefinitely, the only limit being the size of the machine. Tests with the betatron have shown that the best energy for medical and radiographic use is 20 mev (million electron volts). The development of this machine from a physics laboratory instrument to an industrial machine is described, as well as the radiographic properties of the X rays produced."
"Power rectifiers have proved themselves as efficient and reliable converters of a-c to d-c power for many industrial applications. They also have been used to a limited extent as exciters for synchronous motors and condensers. This paper discusses the requirements of rectifiers when used to excite large a-c generators and presents the results of tests made to determine performance under various operating conditions. The results cover preliminary tests that were made on a laboratory model in addition to extensive and more complete tests on an electronic exciter now installed in the Springdale generating station of the West Penn Power Company. The electronic exciter was designed to serve eventually as the main exciter for an 81,250-kva 3,600-rpm turbine generator just installed, but it is now supplying excitation to a 47,100-kva 1,800-rpm turbine generator. Switching arrangements are provided for exciting either unit from the electronic exciter or from an existing motor-driven exciter."
"The existence of peak voltages in the windings of many sorts of series transformers and reactors, when abnormal conditions force the flux density above saturation, has been understood in a qualitative manner for many years. This paper will derive means for calculating these voltages for the various combinations of magnetizing force and rate of variation. The close agreement between test and calculation over a wide range of magnetizing forces indicates the accuracy and general applicability of the method."
"The theory and design of a tunable bridge-type narrow-band rejection filter are given for the general case, considering elements with dissipation. Range of adjustment and effect of manufacturing variations are discussed with the help of impedance circle diagrams. Approximate attenuation formulas for various levels of attenuation are derived, and a convenient graphical method of studying performance is suggested. A formula for the effective width of a special arrangement of two filters in tandem is derived."
"The use of pilot-wire relays for protection of power transmission circuits usually requires a reliable pilot channel which is free of any induced potentials which may cause transient voltages to appear between wires even though they may be of relatively low magnitude. This is particularly true in the case of pilot relays using a sequence network in which a single-phasealternating voltage is applied to the pilot wires. Conventional methods of protection, such as those used on telephone circuits, are not suitable. As a result it frequently has been necessary to install special pilot circuits which are insulated for voltages far in excess of their normal operating voltage to insure reliable operation. This paper describes a method of protection which provides reliable and satisfactory operation of a-c pilot channels through low-voltage telephone-type cable, even though the cable may be subject to induced potentials high enough to operate discharge gaps."
"MILITARY RADAR systems by the score have been developed for such varied purposes as surface search, aircraft detection, height finding, gunfire control, range finding, and other wartime uses not as yet released from the classified categories."
"Methods and devices are described for testing microwave radar equipment in the radio frequency range from about 500 megacycles to 25,000 megacycles and at associated video frequencies. In general, the same instruments and techniques are applicable also in testing microwave communication systems."
"THIS PAPER presents a study of the performance of a motor-driven excitation set designed for large turbine alternators connected to modern power systems. This excitation set has been so designed that its performance, both steady state and transient, is essentially comparable with the usual direct-connected (shaft-driven) exciter even when the driving motor is receiving its voltage from the alternator to which the generator is supplying excitation."
"THE BUSSES and connected equipment in electric power stations sometimes are operated ungrounded. When a single insulation fault to ground occurs on a system of this type, the fault current is relatively small, the arc damage usually slight, and the faulted equipment in nearly all cases can be removed from service without relay action or service disturbance of any kind. However, in April 1942, faults developed simultaneously at two points 300 feet apart on the ungrounded 60-cycle 13.2-kv bus in the Holtwood station of the Pennsylvania Water and Power Company. This trouble resulted in severe arcing and damage to the bus structure before the faults were isolated."
"The grim uses of radar in war are giving way now to a peacetime role in navigation and obstacle detection. This article discusses the results obtained with military airborne radar as a basis for understanding both the possibilities and the limitations in the application of radar to reduce aviation hazards."
"IN a previous paper,1 the differential (harmonic) leakage of an integral-slot winding and squirrel cage winding was treated. It was shown that a squirrel cage rotor reduces the harmonics and thus the differential leakage of the stator. The influence of the number of stator and rotor slots, as well as of the pitch factor of the stator winding on the damping of the stator harmonics, was discussed. Also, it was shown that skewing of the rotor reduces the damping of the stator harmonics and, therefore increases the differential leakage of the stator. The investigation was made under the following assumptions:"
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Continuing a discussion of Mexican electrification which began in a preceding issue, part II evaluates the country's hydraulic, oil, and coal resources and comments on possibilities for future utilization in view of increased demand. The accessibility of these resources accents their importance in Mexico's growing industrialization, a trend which is being brought about through the co-operation of government and industry. The government's role is evident in comprehensive federal legislation which regulates all activities of the electrical industry from rate fixing to the establishment of standards for electric machinery."
"Citing the cultural education of an engineer as a continuing process, Dean Langsdorf tosses the responsibility to the national engineering societies. He opposes further dilution of engineering curricula which already require streamlining and intensification if, in the face of expanding technology, they are to meet effectively their obligation of assuring their graduates the requisite fundamentals."
"Single-phase motor theory is a somewhat controversial subject because two distinct single-phase motor theories, the rotary field and the cross flux theories, have prevailed for 50 years. The physical concepts of the actions taking place in the motor that are developed by these two theories are not altogether consistent with each other or with test results and so it seems that some action is in order to co-ordinate these two theories into a single one, with the elimination of the inconsistent elements of both. The proposition that the quadrature flux of the single-phase squirrel cage motor is developed by the amortisseur action of the squirrel cage is submitted as a suggestion along this line."
"Developments in airport lighting for combat purposes initiated a trend toward much higher candlepower for contact lights and much more expensive lighting equipment generally for commercial airports. The new tendency is a welcome departure from the all-too-common prewar practice of allotting only one per cent or less of the airport's cost for lighted landing aids in spite of the failure of radio to provide adequate control in heavy air traffic. A combination of improved lighting with radio is offered as the only feasible method of affording the pilot the necessary margin of safety for landing or take-off."
"Within the 80-foot concrete tower of the recently completed vertical wind tunnel at Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, aerodynamic tests which may save many dollars, working hours, and even the lives of pilots now are being conducted on future Army Air Forces airplanes which are still in the blueprint stage."
"With the South Carolina Section and the North Carolina Section collaborating as hosts, the sixth general conclave of the AIEE Southern District was held May 1416 at the Grove Park Inn, Asheville, N. C. The dual features of the meeting were a very active student conference with representation from 15 of the 18 Student Branches in the District, and devotion of a large portion of the technical meetings program to the problems of especial interest to the industrial south. Total verified attendance was 373, in spite of last minute cancellation of nearly 50 advance registrations as the result of uncertainty over the railroad transportation situation. Registration statistics are given in accompanying tabulations."
"The progress made in aeronautical electrical standards work since the fifth progress report (EE, Apr '46, pp 1734) and the status of AIEE participation as of April 24, 1946, are summarized herewith."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946 and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Copies may be obtained by mail from the AIEE order department 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N.Y., at prices indicated with the abstract; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the convention registration desk."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Two facsimile systems showing many advances over prewar models recently were demonstrated for the press in New York, N. Y. The Finch Telefax was on view at the American Newspapers Publishers meeting in the Waldorf Astoria, and the Hogan Faximile System was demonstrated in the laboratory of Radio Inventions, Inc. J. V. L. Hogan (M '20) is president of the firm manufacturing the latter equipment, and W. G. H. Finch (M '26) is president of Finch Telecommunications, manufacturer of the Telefax."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"This paper presents an explanation of the theory and explains the characteristics of an a-c adjustable-speed drive obtained by using a polyphase commutator regulator mechanically coupled to the shaft of a wound-rotor induction motor and electrically connected to its slip rings. The theoretical loci of the system current vectors with respect to the voltage vectors of the induction motor are developed in terms of the constants of the machines and the applied voltage. A method of determining the characteristics of the drive from no-load tests or from design data is presented. The characteristics predicted on these bases are in excellent agreement with those obtained experimentally."
"BY virtue of its axial symmetric geometry, the coaxial tubular bus possesses certain very desirable electrical and mechanical characteristics. Low inductance contributes to good voltage regulation. Reduced skin and proximity effects minimize line losses and average temperature rise under load. Axial-symmetric distribution of skin and proximity effects reduces current density distortion and attendant hot-spot concentrations, hence enables a greater current rating for a specified maximum copper temperature. As electromagnetic forces between conductors are eliminated largely, mechanical bracing against short-circuit forces correspondingly can be reduced. The nested conductors require less space for installation and a smaller supporting structure than they would if arranged side by side."
"Ocoee 3, a 1-unit 30,000-kva supervisory-controlled generating station of the Tennessee Valley Authority, has been in operation since April 30, 1943. An underground cable was selected for the control and telemetering channel, and neutralizing transformers were installed to protect against voltage rise resulting from transmission line faults. Instrumentation, controls, and station auxiliaries were designed particularly to safeguard the unattended equipment. Maintenance includes two or three inspections per week. The cost of supervision, operation, and maintenance is as low as $0.101 per 1,000 kilowatt-hours."
"The primary object of the work described here was to determine what properties of the tape and associated magnetic elements are responsible for the noise and signal output levels of magnetic recordings and, if possible, to display in specific equations the pertinent relation-ships connecting noise and signal levels with the physical properties of the tape and polepieces. In the course of the study, methods appeared for decreasing the noise and increasing the useful signal reproduced from magnetic tape. These methods and some of the use that Bell Telephone Laboratories and Western Electric have made of them are mentioned in the discussion. While some of the work described in this paper has implications for more than one type of magnetic recording process, perpendicular recording on tape1 is the actual subject matter dealt with. In every case discussed, the record medium was 0.050 inch wide and 0.0022 inch thick. Except where otherwise noted, a chrome-steel tape was used at a speed of 16 inches per second."
"THE NEED for more adequate discrimination by means of distance relays, between fault conditions and power swings has been heightened in recent years by the construction of longer transmission lines and by the transmission of larger amounts of energy over existing lines."
"The experience of the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois with metal-clad switchgear has been outstanding, both from the standpoint of reliability of operation and safety to personnel, two of the principal objectives sought by the engineers of the company when they pioneered this type of equipment. This equipment has been applicable not only to the voltage classes up to and including 15,000 volts, but also in the 33,000-volt class, of which the company has seven major installations which have been in service from 13 to 16 years. This report of experience with 33-kv metal-clad switchgear is offered as proof that development and use should be resumed and continued in what is undoubtedly a fertile field for the application of principles which are now generally accepted. It is not a detailed discussion of the design and construction of metal-clad equipment, but rather a factual record of progress already made and proved by 13 years of operating experience. Conclusions drawn from this report are that the main objectives sought after in the development of metal-clad type of switchgear have been obtained satisfactorily. Experience has demonstrated clearly its outstanding operating reliability as compared with the conventional open type, and its perfect safety record for operating and maintenance personnel has been made possible by the inherent safety features which are practical only in metal-clad equipment. If these and other factors which cannot be evaluated precisely are taken into consideration and if the further exploitation in the post-war period of materials and methods developed during the war is kept in mind, it would appear that there is no question about the continued development of metal-clad type of switchgear in all voltage classes. Repetitive manufacturing, standardization, and prefabrication are some of the most potent means of combating the continually rising cost of electrical station and substation installations. The electrical equipment manufacturers are applying these principles to a growing extent and are promoting their use throughout the industry. The principles, of course, are not new, the present movement being directed mainly toward a more intensive and wide-spread application. Neither the manufacturer nor the utilities can afford to neglect any application of these principles that can be justified economically."
"With the remarkable expansion of induction heating applications during recent years, a growing number of persons is being involved in the design and operation of induction heating equipment. While the general principle of induction heating is obvious to most, the concepts of certain important peculiarities such as skin effect, including its bearing on the intensity of heat generation, are not as widely understood. One reason for this state lies in the classic approach by partial differential equations1,2 involving operations with which many engineers interested in induction heating are not familiar. A previous paper by the author offered a new approach for the analysis of the induction heating effect by using concepts commonly applied to a-c engineering and not involving differential equations.3 A limitation of that paper consisted in the assumption that the radius of the charge will be very large in comparison with the so-called depth of penetration. It is the object of this paper to cast off this limitation and hence provide an analysis which is valid for any size of the radius of the charge and the depth of penetration. The generated heat is expressed in terms of rapidly converging series. The analysis is applied finally to the case where the charge is subdivided into a number of cylindrical rods. It is shown that for one certain radius of the individual rods, the inductor efficiency reaches a maximum. While in the case of a single (not subdivided) charge, the inductor efficiency cannot increase over a certain limit depending on the material of the charge, the subdivision of the charge removes such limitation, and inductor efficiencies can approach asymptotically 100 per cent for any material."
"THE mho relay unit was first used 15 years ago as the directional unit for an early-type reactance relay. Thus it can be said that mho applied to relays is a new term applied to an old principle. The mathematical justification for the term has been given in a paper1 describing the use of the mho unit in a carrier-current relaying scheme. The mho unit in its present form is a directional impedance unit whose accuracy is comparable with that of the reactance ohm unit used in a distance relay."
"Power circuit breakers for voltage services of 2,300 volts and above use either of two basic principles to complete circuit interruption. The more familiar types, oil breakers or compressed air breakers, complete their operation by maintaining a low resistance arc until the final current zero where interruption is completed. Magnetic air circuit breakers establish a high resistance arc prior to circuit interruptions which modifies the circuit constants before recovery voltage is established. The Magne-blast breaker falls in this second class of breakers. The treatment of the arc in this breaker to obtain a high arc resistance is explained in some detail. Also, design practices and operating characteristics of the final magnetic type breaker are reviewed."
"KNOWLEDGE of the short-circuit characteristics of d-c machines is an essential factor in the design of d-c electric systems having a large low-voltage machine capacity concentrated in a small area. This information is particularly important in the design of systems such as those encountered aboard ship where circuit breakers, fuses, relays, and other protective equipment must be so applied and co-ordinated as to provide a high degree of reliability and service continuity. Available information relative to d-c short-circuit currents has been limited to theoretical analyses based on formal solution of the differential equations of current flow and the machine inductance and resistance values. As a tool in the routine design of d-c systems, this information has not been adequate, particularly when estimates must be made of the effect of fault resistance, choice of machine construction, and so forth."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Discussion of paper 4658 by C. P. Potter and A. E. Frohardt, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, February section, pages 568."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4664 by P. H. Trickey, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 13941."
"Discussion of paper 4659 by A. G. Conrad, F. E. Brooks, Jr., and R. G. Fellers, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y. January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, June section, pages 3218."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4666 by G. E. Frost, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANS-ACTIONS, 1946, June section, pages 394402."
"Discussion of paper 4613 by B. O. Austin, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, February section, pages 5860."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 463 by C. K. Chappuis and Leonard M. Olmsted, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, January section, pages 1217."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4615 by Cyril G. Veinott, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANS-ACTIONS, 1946, February section, pages 8490."
"Discussion of paper 4654 by J. P. Girard and G. D. Adams, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, May section, pages 2416."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4623 by R. C. Taylor, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANS-ACTIONS, 1946, May section, pages 2637."
"Discussion of paper 4626 by E. S. Willis, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 1348."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4638 by A. R. van C. Warrington, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, June section, pages 37886."
"Discussion of paper 4648 by R. C. Jensen and R. A. Arnett, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, May section, pages 30713."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 4656 by K. W. John, G. W. Knapp, and W. A. Mosteller, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 21s25, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 12834."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 4670 by G. D. Floyd and J. J. Traill, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 1639."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 4630 by T. H. Long and G. D. McMullen, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 1469."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4631 by D. E. Wooldridge, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, June section, pages 34352."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4629 by T. H. Long, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, April section, pages 21620."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 468 by Herbert B. Dwight, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, January section, pages 225."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 4644 by J. E. Allen and S. K. Waldorf, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, May section, pages 298306."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4616 by the lightning and insulator working group of the AIEE committee on power transmission and distribution presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1945, February section, pages 706."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 4637 by Henry Peter Messinger and Thomas James Higgins, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, June section, pages 32836."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 4620 by W. F. Skeats and E. B. Rietz, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, April section, pages 22431."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 4619 by W. B. Buchanan and G. D. Floyd, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, April section, pages 199204."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4622 by A. P. Strom, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 11318."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4621 by T. E. Browne, Jr., presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 16976."
"Discussion of paper 4643 by C. H. Kreger, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, June section, pages 3608."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 4655 by R. C. Dickinson and Russell Frink, and discussion of paper 4642 by L. J. Linde and B. W. Wyman, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, April and June sections, pages 2203 and 38693."
"Discussion of paper 4645 by R. E. Marbury and J. B. Owens, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 1426."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4612 by Joseph M. Tymer, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 979."
"Discussion of paper 4641 by T. W. Dietz and G. M. Stein, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 1549."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 469 by Robert A. Wyant, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, January section, pages 2634."
"Discussion of paper 462 by A. C. Johnson, presented at the AIEE winter convention New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, January section, pages 811."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4667 by A. M. Zarem, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 1504."
"Discussion of paper 4669 by E. E. Lynch and M. E. Douglass, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. York, January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, March section, pages 1248."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 4617 by G. D. McCann, S. W. Herwald, and H. S. Kirschbaum, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, February section, pages 916."
"Discussion and authors' closures of paper 4677 by R. B. Bodine, S. B. Crary, and A. W. Rankin and paper 4674 by H. A. P. Langstaff, H. R. Vaughan and R. F. Lawrence, presented at the AIEE winter convention, New York, N. Y., January 2125, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, May section, pages 2907 and 24653."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"With the relaxation of military restrictions, information now is available concerning much enemy equipment including the German-developed V-2 rocket which was employed in the bombardment of England. Range control of the V-2 was provided by an integrating accelerometer which, under proper conditions, can be made to give a measure of the velocity at any given instant. By presetting this device and controlling the angle of the missile with respect to zenith, reasonably accurate guidance can be accomplished."
"Significant and controversial are these bold and frank comments of an AIEE past president, based on first-hand observation and study over a period of some nine months since the military collapse of Germany. Here is food for serious thought and a challenge to American policy and security. Comments and opinions on the subject are invited."
"The problem of retraining large numbers of war workers for peacetime pursuits confronts many industries today. During the war when industry was faced with the reverse problem, conversion to wartime production, the Federal Government provided aid through the Engineering Science and Management War Training Program under which war plant employees might take advantage of short technical courses offered by co-operating educational institutions throughout the United States. In the hope that industries reconverting to peacetime production might profit through similar methods, this article offers a survey of the University of California's experience with the war training program."
"Magnetic wire recording, which has been known since 1896, found many applications during World War II where the Armed Forces needed lightweight portable recording equipment which could operate under a wide variety of conditions. Although this method of recording has disadvantages in comparison with other more highly developed types employed today, a promising future is indicated."
"The engineer's relationship with management may be considered from three angles: the engineer as an employee of management, the engineer as an engineer, and the engineer as a candidate for managerial positions. However, as he moves further and further away from his slide rule up into the managerial brackets, he frequently finds that he is ill-equipped to handle the personal elements which enter into an executive position. Perhaps the solution is the inclusion of more of the so-called cultural and human relations subjects in engineering education."
"According to a recent report published by the British Intelligence Objectives Subcommittee, 550 yards of experimental 400-kv a-c line had been constructed in order to study corona loss in connection with a proposed 480-mile transmission of 600,000 kva from the Alps to Cologne. Tests showed that an arrangement of four conductors in parallel for each phase with 10-inch spacing between the steel-cored aluminium conductors would provide the maximum current-carrying capacity with the minimum of corona loss. Single-phase transformers with a 400-kv bushing out of one end and a 220-kv bushing for connection to a Petersen coil at the other, with lower voltage bushings at both ends, were to have been used. The air-blast circuit-breakers to be installed, rated at 1,000 amperes and 6,500 megavoltamperes interrupting capacity, had 14 breaks in series with capacitors for promoting equal voltage distribution between breaks."
"In the score of years since 1925, the expansion of the electric utility industry has been accompanied by deliberate and sustained reductions in fuel used and in the amounts of materials required to manufacture its equipment. Efficiency of operation with higher temperatures and greater pressures has provided the first saving, and improvement in design and interconnection of systems, the second. However, the author adds, the fuel economy curve is flattening out, and the time is ripe for a new point of attack of the problem."
"The Pacific Coast convention will be held in Seattle, Wash., August 2730, 1946, with headquarters in the Olympic Hotel. Arrangements are being made for a full postwar program of eight sessions, including a session which affords an opportunity for discussion on organization of the engineering profession; entertainment; sports; and inspection trips in a picturesque part of the Pacific Northwest. For the women there will be scenic boat rides and automobile sightseeing tours to the various points of interest about the city. The need to make hotel reservations early is stressed, as explained further under the heading, hotel reservations."
"Special attention is directed to the fact that the names of Institute members who are considered eligible for the AIEE Lamme Medal, to be awarded early in 1947, may be submitted by any member in accordance with section 1 of article VI of the bylaws of the Lamme Medal committee, as follows:"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its 62nd annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1946. It includes a general balance sheet and other statements, showing the financial condition of the Institute at the close of the fiscal year, and a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in Electrical Engineering."
"Recipients of the 1945 national prize awards for papers were announced by M. D. Hooven (F'44) chairman of the AIEE committee on award of Institute prizes at the annual meeting of the Institute, June 26, in Detroit, Mich. In the class of public relations and education the paper chosen was presented during the year 1944 when no award was made in that class. Owing to readjustments in the universities and colleges made necessary by the war, no papers were submitted for the national prize for Branch papers."
"Membership for life is granted by the AIEE to members who either have paid annual dues for 35 years, or have reached the age of 70 and paid dues for 30 years. A list of those who have become members for life during the preceding year is published annually in Electrical Engineering. Institute members who have attained this status since publication of the last list in the July 1945 issue are:"
"The following constitutes the annual report on Institute Section and Branch activities for the fiscal year which ended April 30, 1946. Similar information for three preceding fiscal years appeared in Electrical Engineering in June 1945, pages 2289; June 1944, pages 2245; and June 1943, pages 2645."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The Engineers Joint Council, representing five national engineering societies has combined with the American Book Center for War Devastated Libraries, Inc., in efforts to help restore engineering and other libraries overseas. The American Book Center, which has its headquarters in the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., will be the central handling point for volumes contributed through the engineering societies and will receive, sort, assign, pack, and ship the books."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers"
"The causes of dielectric loss in insulating oils and the means to reduce it to a minimum have always been important in high voltage engineering. In this study the relationships between the amount of impurities, which furnish a source of free ions in an oil, and the viscosity, which influences the mobility of the ions, on the one hand and the dielectric loss on the other are investigated. The results present some definite relationships between them and point out that in two oils of the same electrical purity, the one with higher viscosity will have lower dielectric loss."
"This paper describes a new timing relay for controlling relaying time on automatically reclosed circuit breakers on which inverse-time overcurrent relays are supplemented by instantaneous overcurrent relays. This device incorporates the advantages of instantaneous circuit breaker opening on the first, and in some cases the second, tripout to clear transient faults, and inverse-time opening on subsequent tripouts to obtain co-ordination with branch or sectionalizing fuses. It was designed for universal application on feeder circuits of the Oklahoma Gas and Electric Company system. Certain features which provide for optimum service reliability were incorporated in the design."
"MAGNET COILS present somewhat different insulation problems from rotating machines. This was recognized when separate magnet coil standards13 were set up by AIEE, National Electrical Manufacturers Association, and American Standards Association which permit higher maximum observable temperatures than do the rotating machine standards. AIEE Standard 1 states, How long an insulation will last will depend not only on the class of material used but also upon the physical support of the insulation and the severity of the physical forces tending to disrupt it. Following this line of reasoning, AIEE Standards 15 and 16 permit higher observable temperatures on magnet coils as shown in Table I. Work by Erikson4 indicates the desirability of separate consideration of magnet coils and suggests the possibility of higher operating temperatures even with organic insulation."
"THIS REPORT discusses the inductive co-ordination aspects of rectifier installations from the standpoint of effects on the a-c side and presents methods of classifying proposed installations into one of the three following categories: Category I. Very unlikely to cause important induction problems. Category II. Indeterminate. Category III. Very likely to cause important induction problems."
"Operating experiences and information gained over a period of years from the operation of a large group of mercury arc rectifiers have shown that, while rectifiers provide a very economical means of converting from a-c to d-c power, they are not entirely trouble free. The principal operating difficulty has been the seemingly inherent tendency for a rectifier to arc-back. This peculiarity has challenged both the designer and operator since it has been found that both contribute toward the solution. The present paper presents the features which have been found advisable for the operator to observe and control in order to keep the occurrences of arc-back at a minimum."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a method developed for determining the location of ground faults on an extensive 140-kv grounded neutral transmission system. This method applies particularly to ground faults in a network of two or more parallel lines and is based on a comparison of the magnitude of ground currents in the faulted circuit and in the unfaulted circuits. Since the relative distribution of ground fault current in a network depends only on the zero sequence impedance of the system, an analysis of ground faults by comparison is independent of generation, fault resistance, or whether one or two phases are involved to ground. The paper also describes the use of ground fault current curves in determining the critical conditions for relay selectivity and summarizes the results of five years of satisfactory experience with automatic oscillographs used in the analysis of faults and relay operations on the system."
"A modern Diesel-electric powered drilling equipment for drilling oil wells consists of several internal combustion engines driving d-c generators, which supply adjustable voltage power to the several d-c motors driving the various motions. This paper gives a description of the functions performed by the draw works, mud pumps, rotary table, and coring reel, and a typical arrangement of apparatus or elementary power diagram showing the main d-c circuits with the arrangement of drill-hoist contactors and manual transfer switches. In addition, there are related the general scheme of operation, strictly from the driller's point of view, without the details of how these functions are accomplished; the operating principles of the electrohydraulic governor that make this scheme of operation possible; as well as the various control features provided by the amplidyne excitation of the main generators. The electrohydraulic governor, a war development, is applied for the first time to Diesel-electric drilling rig equipment. This governor gives to the engines a degree of protection never before attained, by preventing the engine from being overloaded. The governor also permits running the engines at the lowest speeds consistent with the desired rig motion and not at full rated speed at all times as in the past. The electrohydraulic governor provides for engine paralleling without the driller having to pay any attention to the engine throttles. The merits of a-c versus d-c auxiliary drives are pointed out, and separate engine-driven auxiliary a-c generators are recommended instead of the usual practice of driving auxiliary d-c generators from the main engines. This gives a saving in first cost of auxiliaries conservatively estimated at 25 per cent, as well as gains in simplicity, sturdiness, and less weight."
"This paper presents an extension of the conventional method of calculating speed-torque curves for d-c series motors used with dynamic braking controllers, which permits determination of the stability limit with overhauling loads such as occur on crane hoists. It is shown that such stability limit can be increased by the addition of series resistance."
"DISTANCE RELAYS for protection against wire-to-wire, two wire-to-ground, and three phase faults on transmission lines have met with wide acceptance. However, the use of distance relays for protection against single wire-to-ground faults has been limited to relatively few installations. From the information available, it would seem that the Kansas Gas and Electric Company is one of the few companies using distance ground relays. The experience gained in the use of these relays over the past seven years has demonstrated their reliability and good operating performance."
"Single-anode pumped-type mercury-arc-rectifier tubes have been established in the 300-, 600-, and 900-volt field in the past few years, and as a result they have become the most important type of equipment for large power conversion at these voltages. The ignitron was the major development which brought about the change from multianode to single anode tubes in this low voltage field.1 Recently sealed ignitrons have been developed for very high voltages and lower currents.2 This paper describes high voltage pumped ignitrons which have been made available for power conversion in the 3,000-to 4,000-volt range. The major application for mercury arc rectifiers in this voltage range is for railroad service. Therefore, the requirements for railroad loading have been given special consideration in the design of the high voltage ignitron. Both rectifier and inverter characteristics were desired in one unit so that a maximum of flexibility could be obtained. The characteristics of combined rectifier and inverter operation are described. Accepted fundamental rectifier and inverter relationships are presented, and curves are included to aid in determining operating characteristics. The design and tests which led to the successful development of the high voltage pumped ignitron are discussed. Pumped ignitrons are compared with sealed ignitrons for high voltage applications so that the field of each can be better defined."
"Incorporated in the modern double-reduction motor and gear unit are many new design features which have made it an outstanding motor for the past five years. Oil lubrication is provided for all gearing and bearings in the oil-tight double-reduction gear unit. Special design constants, which have been developed as a result of many years of experience with high-speed motors, are used. Self-ventilation is successful on a high-speed motor and simplifies locomotive design. Specially insulated field coils provide for good heat transfer from the coils to steel and air. A small motor with a high-speed armature results in low copper loss and high efficiency at high tractive effort. A steep speed curve with a large amount of field shunting makes it possible to use all motors connected permanently in parallel. The motor is small, compact, and lightweight, which has made possible its use on a wide range of locomotives. Here is a small motor doing a big job."
"A method, using reduced-scale model installations, is developed for the laboratory determination of cable temperatures obtaining in the field. The theory of the method is given, followed by the description of three sets of experiments conducted to show the feasibility of the method. One set of experiments is concerned with a single-conductor cable buried directly in the soil of the model setup, and temperatures obtained are compared with computed values. Another set is concerned with a single-conductor cable in a model duct bank, and sheath and duct temperatures obtained are compared with those of field determinations in an actual field installation. The third set is concerned with a model three-conductor cable in a duct bank, and conductor-sheath temperature differentials are compared with field data. All tests show that the accuracy of the method is sufficient for practical purposes."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Discussion of paper 46-151 by A. J. Christopher and J. A. Kater, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS 1946 October section 670-4."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-132 by W. D. Cockrell, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detriot, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 617-22."
"Discussion of paper 46-113 Harold Chestnut, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 570-6."
"Discussion and authors closure of paper since it is the position of the optical system 46-128 by H. A. Adler and K. W. Miller, Figure 3. The zones of correction determinetsheraccuracy. lished in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 630-2."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-177 by W. H. Clagett and W. M. Leeds, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 27-30, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 729-34."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-173 by Lloyd F. Hunt, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 995-1000."
"Discussion and author's closure of the paper 46-163 by W. A. Codd, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detriot, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages, 694-8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-112 by Charles F. Dalziel, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in on this point. the second method as well as some of the AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 579-85."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-174 by W. A. Derr, W. A. Keller, and H. A. Hedke, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 699-705."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-109 by H. P. Dupuis and W. E. Jacobs, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 442-6."
"Discussion of paper 46-121 by W. N. Eddy and W. D. Fenn, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 576-8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-117 by H. A. Frey and J. M. Jesatko, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and pubislished in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 911-20."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-107 by H. Tyler Marcy, presented at the AIEE summer conventioh, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 521-9."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-103 by Andrew Gemant and Joseph Sticher, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section pages 475-82."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-130 by G. W. Heumann and W. P. Smith, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 454-7."
"Discussion of paper 46-146 by D. V. Edwards and E. K. Smith, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 640-3."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-114 by Herbert Harris, Jr., presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August of September section, pages 539-46."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-108 by R. A. Hopkins and H. J. Petersen presented at the AIEE summer convention, presented at the AIEE summer convention, published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 920-31."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-150 by S. W. Herwald and G. D. McCann, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detrolts Michn June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 636-9."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-108 by R. A. Hopkins and H. J. Petersen, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 920-31."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-172 by E. W. Knapp and Ben C. Hicks, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 735-40."
"Discussion and authors' closure oF paper 46-145 by B. W Jones and J. A. Scott presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 644-8."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-115 by L. F. Hickernell and C. J. Snyder, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 563-9."
"Discussion of paper 46-126 by R. Koller, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 597-604."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-175 by W. W. Lewis, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 690-4."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-136 by T. M. Linville, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 956-65."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-118 by Edwin J. Merrell, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 605-09."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-152 by J. B. McClure, S. 1. Whittlesey, and M. E. Hartman, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946 pages 939-45."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-176 by E. F. Miller and R. B. Miller, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28,1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTONS, 1946, November section, pages 751-6."
"Discussion of paper 46-166 by T. C. Lloyd and H. B. Stone, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detriot, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSCTIONS, 1946, December section, pages 812-18."
"Discussion of paper 46-156 by F. E. Murray and R. C. Jones, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 726-8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-160 John D. Piper, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, December section, pages 791-7."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-165 V. M. Montsinger and J. E. Clem, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, December section, pages 966-73."
"Discussion of paper 46-125 by K. P. Puchlowski, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946 and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 585-91."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-154 by F. M. Porter and J. H. Kinghorn, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946 pages 1020-81."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-137 by J. J. Riley and C. E. Smith, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detriot, Mich., June 24-28, 1946 and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946 December section, pages 852-60."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-161 by Thomas R. Putnam, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 757-61."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-140 by H. C. Steiner and H. N. Price, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 680-5."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-135 by J. D. Ryder and W. B. Boast, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, October section, pages 674-80."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-124 by J. T. Vaughan and J. W. Williamson presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 887-92."
"Discussion of paper 46-122 by H. R. Vaughan, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 2428, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, August-September section, pages 592-6."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-116 by C. N. Weygandt and S. Charp, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 1000-09."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-134 by 0. B. Vikoren, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 768-73."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-142 by W. G. Worcester and E. G. Doughty, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 946-55."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-180 by B. 0. Austin, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 27-30, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 741-5."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-189 by P. L. Bellaschi and L. B. Rademacher, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 27-30, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 1047-54."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-181 by W. G. Hoover, presented at the 46-181 by W. G. Hoover, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 27-30, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 1086-91."
"Discussion and authorsd closure of paper 46-182 by C. Concordia, S. B Crary, and F. J. Maginniss, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash. August 27-30, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS 1946 pages 974-87."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-196 by B. V. Hoard, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 27-30,1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 1102-14."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-200 by Lloyd F. Hunt, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 27-30, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 765-8."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-184 by M. M. Samuels, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 27-30, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 1065-73."
"Discussion and authors' closure of paper 46-104 by Graham Lee Moses and Julius J. Torok, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 412-16."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-83 by W. A. Wolfe, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, July section, pages 458-62. This paper also was presented at the South West District meeting, San Antonio, Tex., April 16-18, 1946."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-144 by F. L. Lawton, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 900-10."
"Discussion and author's closure of paper 46-186 by T. M. C. Martin, presented at the AIEE Pacific Coast meeting, Seattle, Wash., August 27-30, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 1054-65."
"Discussion operate and authors' closure of paper 46-157 by J. S. Johnson and Conrad Weil, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, November section, pages 705-10."
"Discussions and authors' closure of papers 46-170 and 46-171 by C. L. Schuck and E. W. Boehne, presented at the AIEE summer convention, Detroit, Mich., June 24-28, 1946, and published in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, 1946, pages 1028-45."
"When the war put an end to shipments of natural rubber from the Far East, it became evident that synthetic chemistry would be called upon to fill the gap in our supply of this strategic material. We know now how effectively the emergency was met. In less than three years the production of Buna S type synthetic rubber alone had risen to exceed our total prewar comsumption of natural rubber. Few, however, realize the magnitude of the effort and the extent of the cooperation between groups of experts that was essential for the achievement of this success."
"The desired characteristics for vacuum tubes for use in broad-band intermediate frequency amplifiers are primarily high transconductance, low capacitances, high input resistance, and good noise figure. These characteristics determine the frequency bandwidth, amplification, and signal-to-noise ratio attainable with such an amplifier. The maximum operating frequency is generally limited by the input resistance of the tube which decreases as the frequency is increased, and, in some cases, by the tube noise which increases with increasing frequency. Three other characteristics which are also important are small physical size, low power consumption, and ruggedness. The present paper describes how these characteristics are related to the performance requirements for intermediate frequency (IF) amplifiers used in radar systems and shows how the requirements were met in the design of the Western Electric 6AK5 Vacuum Tube."
"Formulas and charts are given which aid the design of right circular cylinder cavity resonators operating in the TE 01n mode, which yields the highest Q for a given volume. The application of these to the design of an echo box radar test set is shown, and practical considerations arising in the construction of a tunable cavity are discussed."
"Methods and devices are described for testing microwave radars in the radio frequency range from about 500 mc to 25,000 mc, and at associated video frequencies. In general, the same instruments and techniques are applicable also in testing microwave communication systems."
"This paper describes laboratory tests of certain carrier telegraph methods, to determine their relative advantages from the standpoints of signal speed, and sensitivity to level change, carrier frequency drift, interchannel interference, and line noise."
"Weathering of Soft Vulcanized Rubber.1 JAMES CRABTREE and A. R. KEMP. Two separate and distinct processes are responsible for the breakdown of soft vulcanized rubber when exposed to outdoor weathering  light-energized oxidation and attack by atmospheric ozone. The former is independent of stress and controllable to any marked extent only by incorporation of opaquing fillers. The latter affects rubber only when under stress and is checked to a considerable degree by addition of certain hydrocarbon waxes as long as the stress is static. The conditions affecting these processes have been investigated, and suggestions for accelerated aging are made on the basis of the findings."
"The aim of the Bell System is to give the fastest possible toll service consistent with costs. The aim of the Intertoll Trunk Engineer is to provide the proper number of trunks in each group to obtain that objective. His problem is to gauge the effect of his work on the overall speed of service."
"An Essential feature of radar is the generation, by means of an oscillator, of high-energy pulses of short duration, repeated many times a second. The energy for these pulses is furnished to the oscillator from a power supply in a variety of ways. One of the most widely used of these is the line type modulator in which a pulse-forming network made up of a series of condensers and inductances is charged from the power supply through a choke and is then discharged by a switch so that a substantially constant current will flow for a predetermined short time through the primary of a pulse transformer coupled to the oscillator. This switch is, therefore, an essential component of this type of modulator."
"Radar systems in current use radiate short bursts of energy developed by pulsing a high-frequency generator, usually a magnetron. One means of developing the requisite impulses employs a non-linear coil and is termed a coil pulser. Such pulsers are found in substantial numbers among the Navy's complement of precision radars. Most fire control radars on surface vessels are equipped with them, and all modern radar installations on submarines are so equipped for search and for torpedo control."
"The servo system is a special type of feedback amplifier, usually including a mixture of electrical, mechanical, thermal, or hydraulic circuits. With suitable design, the behavior of these various circuits can be described in the universal language of linear systems. Further, if the servo system is treated in terms of circuit response to sinusoidally varying signals, it then becomes possible to draw upon the wealth of linear feedback amplifier design based on frequency analysis."
"Computation of Interfacial Angles, Interzonal Angles, and Clinographic Projection by Matrix Methods.1 W. L. BOND. A way of setting up the general crystallographic axes a, b, c on unit orthogonal axes x, y, z is used to afford a matrix method of computing interfacial angles and zonal angles. It also affords a method of making clinographic projections."
"Late in the summer of 1940, a fire control radar operating at 700 megacycles per second was in an advanced state of development at the Bell Telephone Laboratories. The pulse power of this radar was generated by a pair of triodes operating near their upper limit of frequency. Even when driven to the point where tube life was short, the generator produced peak power in each pulse of only two kilowatts, a quantity usable but marginal. Although the triodes employed had not been designed for high voltage pulsed operation, they were the best available. This is an example of how development of radar in the centimeter wave region was circumscribed by the lack of a generator of adequate power and reasonable life expectancy. Moreover, the prospects of improvement of the triode as a power generator at these wavelengths and extension of its use to shorter wavelengths were not bright. Solution of the problem by means of power amplification was remote. A new source of centimeter wave power was urgently needed."
"For a number of years before the war a very intensive development effort was under way in the Army and Navy laboratories, and in several commercial laboratories, on the application of radio methods to the location of objects at a distance. The equipment which resulted was eventually called Radar equipment by the Navy and this term is now almost universally used. The urgent needs of the war have resulted in the very rapid development and extensive application of this new science during the last few years."
"The gas-discharge transmit-receive switch has become an accepted part of every modern radar set. Indeed, without such a device, an efficient single-antenna micro-wave radar would be nearly impossible. Many of the early radar sets made in this country employed separate antennae for the transmitter and receiver. The advantages of single antenna operation are so apparent as hardly to require discussion. The saving in space or, if the same space is to be occupied, the increase in gain and directivity of a large single antenna is, of course, apparent. But even more important, perhaps, is the tremendous simplification in tracking offered by a single antenna, particularly where a very rapid complex scanning motion is desired."
"Limitations imposed by other biological test methods have largely been overcome by using autoclaved top soil for the substrate and pure cultures of the decay organisms. The use of soil was the direct result of observations on the rapid decay of wood in contact with soil in laboratory termite colonies."
"When a crystalline substance is sawed, ground, lapped or polished, the crystal structure adjacent to the worked surface is distorted and ruptured. Since the selective diffraction of X-rays by a crystal is a result of the orderly arrangement of the planes of atoms of the crystal, disturbance of this arrangement is detectable by X-ray diffraction."
"In a modern communication system the leakance is generally quite small and can be neglected in making propagation computations."
"ABOUT twenty years ago, Bell System communication engineers felt the need for, and adopted, a new Transmission Unit, initially abbreviated TU but some five years later given the name Decibel, or db. This unit is now universally used throughout the communication world and is fundamentally a measure of the ratio of any two powers. Quantitatively, the number of decibels corresponding to the ratio of any two powers is 10 times the common logarithm of that ratio. If the ratio of the first power to the second power is greater than unity, the first power is said to represent a transmission gain with respect to the second power, or the latter is said to represent a loss with respect to the first power."
"Network Analysis and Feedback Amplifier Design.1 H. W. BODE. The material for this book was originally prepared as a text for an informal course at Bell Telephone Laboratories. It is the outgrowth of a research directed at the problem of designing degenerative feedback amplifiers to provide substantial feedback without instability. The solution of the feedback problem is, however, dependent upon certain propositions in general network theory which are applicable also to other situations. With the addition of other logically related material, this has made the book primarily a text on general network theory."
"The basic problem of providing constant speed past the scanning point in film machines is briefly reviewed. Two associated types of relatively simple film-drive filters are described. Both are based on the use of controlled compliance which promotes greater freedom from film and mechanical conditions. A new film sprocket is described which reduces the number of sprockets required per machine."
"This paper describes a completely new recording machine for 16- or 35-mm film having a minimum of weight and bulk with a maximum of simplicity and excellent basic performance. A new sealed light valve is used in a simplified modulator and optical system employing a prefocused lamp for variable-density recording. A microscope is available for observing the valve in the modulator, and photocell monitoring and other accessories may be added if desired."
"With the packaging materials now available it is possible for the manufacturer of photographic film to provide almost complete protection from unfavorable atmospheric humidities up to the time of use. Management of the film moisture content after the moisture impervious package is opened involves adoption of suitable techniques and in some cases the use of desiccants.  Several materials of outstanding interest as desiccants have been studied as to moisture capacity and rate of absorption under suitable conditions. The rate of moisture exchange as influenced by disposition of the film, the presence of membranes, circulation of air, maintenance of reduced atmospheric pressure, etc., has been measured.  Recommendations are made as to methods of minimizing moisture uptake, choice of desiccant, care of desiccant, utilization of material available in the field, and avoidance of the effects of overdrying."
"As part of its wartime standardization work, the Society of Motion Picture Engineers prepared rigid specifications for nine 16-mm test films to meet fundamental test and performance requirements laid down by our armed forces."
"The following discussion and interpretation of recent changes in the attitude of the courts and the Federal Trade Commission toward standardization was presented before the first meeting of the Conference Committee of Staff Executives of Member Bodies and Associate Members of the American Standards Association on March 7, 1946. The author is a recognized authority on the legal aspect of industrial standardization, and the editors of the Journal feel that this frank discussion will be of particular interest to members of the Society who are manufacturers, or who have participated in the 30 years of standardization history of the SMPE."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic or microfilm copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from The Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y., at prevailing rates."
"The Journal Award for 1945 has been made to Charles J. Kunz, Herbert E. Goldberg, and Charles E. Ives. Appropriate certificates were presented to them by President D. E. Hyndman on the evening of October 16, 1945, at the dinner-dance held during the Fifty-Eighth Semi-Annual Technical Conference of the Society. This award is given annually for the most outstanding paper originally published in the Journal of the Society during the preceding calendar year. The title of the paper designated for this award is Improvement in Illumination Efficiency of Motion Picture Printers, published in the May 1944 issue. The paper describes the application of condenser and reflector systems for 2 typical printers with which increased illumination efficiency is obtainable."
"Variable-density sound film recording is subject to intermodulation distortion in the low-frequency band which extends from the lower limit of the audible spectrum toward zero, but not to zero frequency. This distortion is the result of the Bromide Drag phenomenon and is in the nature of exorbitant gamma. Corrections may be made for gamma at any point in this exorbitant range, but only at the sacrifice of correct gamma for other frequencies.  The popular intermodulation method of distortion analysis uses 60 cps as a low-frequency component, which frequency lies in the exorbitant band. The data obtained thereby are representative of the exorbitant conditions and are misleading if they are taken to represent the entire recorded frequency spectrum.  The delta-db method of distortion analysis gives data representative of conditions in which the low-frequency component is zero frequency. The analysis shows, however, that the data are also representative of frequencies above the exorbitant band and, therefore, represent the general recorded frequency spectrum except for the exorbitant band.  Optimum processing specifications should be based upon data representing both conditionsoutside the exorbitant band, as indicated by the delta-db method (zero frequency), and inside the band, as indicated by the intermodulation method using several frequencies around 60 cps.  Either method may be used alone for processing control data after all conditions have been determined and are known to remain constant. Practice has substantiated the merits of the principles expounded here."
"An apparatus is described for the measurement of relative transmission of photographic objectives, consisting of a controlled light source, condensing system, lens mount, integrating sphere, photo cell, and meter. Transmission characteristics of 100 typical objectives are presented, together with a proposed standard method of calibration that will reconcile present practice and equipment with future problems involving low reflectance coatings and objectives designed with high index glasses."
"The U. S. Army has become the largest distributor of motion pictures in the world. This paper describes the system of exchanges which handled distribution and reviews the contributions made by motion pictures to the war effort.  The success of the Army film program is in large measure attributable to the cooperation given by the motion picture industry and the motion picture engineers."
"This paper is a description of a study of 2 types of output power tubes used to drive loudspeakers. Since the introduction of beam power tubes several years ago, engineers have not been in agreement that they gave comparable results to the low impedance triode type tubes. The comparison was made on 15 and 40 amplifiers. The results indicate how both types of tubes can be made equivalent and intermodulation curves on all amplifiers are shown. Signal-to-noise ratios are also given."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a new push-pull frequency modulated circuit in which the push-pull action is accomplished by varying the resonant frequencies of both the oscillator and the discriminator in opposite phase relation to each other. Modulation of the oscillator and discriminator is achieved through the use of 2 capacitors with a common plate and arranged in a push-pull circuit. Thus, if the common plate is the moving element of a vibratory system, this circuit can be used for measuring vibrations or for monitoring purposes.  One of the applications of the push-pull FM circuit is to calibrate recording heads while cutting phonograph records. Using this calibrator, it is possible to measure, without mechanical or inductive coupling, the actual frequency response of the cutting head under normal load, and to observe the input-output characteristics as well as the amount of distortion. It is also possible to use it for monitoring while recording."
"The wide range and controllable properties of Fiberglas thermal insulating materials when used as absorbents of airborne sounds are discussed. Tables of sound absorption coefficients are given for 6 frequencies from 128 to 4096 cps and for 24 different combinations, weights, and thicknesses of materials. Curves are shown analyzing the relative absorption at different frequencies of the different materials based on density, thickness, and fiber size.  Sound isolation blankets made of a newly developed superfine glass fiber show remarkable acoustical efficiency when used for aircraft sound insulations. Their potential application to other uses when materials and research facilities are available is discussed. Some data are also given evaluating the influence of surface treatments and enclosing materials and methods.  The paper is a compilation and analysis of available data but does not represent a complete evaluation since much further work is needed as a result of properties discovered in war applications."
"A recently designed variable equalizer providing suppression and emphasis in 3 frequency bands, adjustable by means of 3 controls, and based on a different philosophy, is described. The principle features include, (1) zero insertion loss, (2) small change in apparent insertion loss as equalization is varied, and (3) more pronounced effects for equivalent changes in equalization."
"Our physical senses are not capable of absolute qualitative or quantitative measurement but they indicate by comparison only. Their reaction to harmonious sounds is an emotional or artistic experience not measurable by ordinary means but definitely established as a psychological entity. Conventional theater or auditorium loudspeakers do not reproduce the emotional effect created by a live orchestra and it is proposed that these systems which are highly directional be replaced by another system with nondirectional characteristics in which reverberation from a multitude of separate loudspeakers replaces or even enhances the original sound picture. The physical difficulties involved in constructing such a system are bridged by the use of a radio frequency carrier for signal distribution."
"The items appearing in this section were submitted December 7, 1945, by members of the Technical News Committee, who welcome and will consider items of current technical interest from any member of the Society.  Additional information concerning these items, or the equipment and processes discussed, may be obtained by communicating with the general office of the Society, Hotel Pennsylvania, New York 1, N. Y."
"Because of head-and-tail development effects, sensitometric exposures of the standard type cannot be wholly relied upon to give a true indication of picture contrast. A method is described whereby sensitometric exposures of unusual form can be used to establish processing techniques for making dupes. Good correlation with visual judgment of quality of a standard picture is obtained."
"Ferricyanide-type bleach solutions for removing silver in certain monopack color processes become relatively inefficient upon the accumulation of but a few per cent of ferrocyanide ion. A method is given for the rapid determination of the state of exhaustion of such bleach solutions, based on colorimetric estimation of the ferrocyanide concentration. The method is sufficiently reliable for processing control, and equipment common to motion picture laboratories is adaptable."
"This paper covers the use of a tone track for automatic control of music and effects background in rerecording."
"This article outlines the underlying reasons for the need of new and modern test equipment for properly servicing theatrical sound reproducing equipment with the minimum expenditure of time. A detailed description is given of a modern test kit designed to fill this need, with photographs of the kit and schematic diagrams of its special instruments."
"Previous varifocal lenses used two or three movable components which had to be shifted against each other. This movement was necessarily nonlinear and therefore had to be achieved by nonlinear cams. This presented many mechanical difficulties and it was nearly impossible to obtain an accurately focused image over the entire range. In addition, the shifting of the movable components against each other caused numerous aberrations.  The new varifocal lens has only one movable barrel, and the compensation of the image movement is achieved solely by optical, and not by mechanical means. Therefore, the lens gives a well-focused image sufficiently free from aberrations at all positions."
"This paper describes a new type of Selsyn interlock selector switch wherein six-pole, five-position rotary switches utilize a combination operating motion. Position selection is obtained by rotary motion and contacting by plunger motion."
"A sensitometer which gives an intensity-scale exposure has been developed as an aid to the control of photographic processing conditions. The illumination is modulated by a photographic step tablet of 21 steps in which the exposure increases by increments of $\\sqrt 2$. Positive films are exposed to an incandescent lamp operating at 2850 K, while with negative films, dyed gelatin filters are inserted in the optical system to approximate sunlight quality. A pendulum mechanism furnishes a 1/10-sec exposure time for positive and negative films. Where longer exposure times are needed, as, for example, with photographic papers, an additional manual shutter is provided. The instrument gives highly reproducible results for process control but is not calibrated in absolute units."
"The problems of television entertainment in motion picture theaters are discussed from the exhibitors's standpoint, including present equipment available, location in the theater, scheduling of programs, and the economic considerations. The author wishes to emphasize that his comments in no way reflect the opinions of Loew's Incorporated or any of its officers or executives. He offers the following paper as his personal thoughts on a widely discussed subject."
"The production of films for the Navy's Special Training Devices involved a large number of special problems peculiar to this work, in addition to all the usual problems of film production. These special problems were caused by the urgency of war, the conditions under which the films were used, the necessity for maximum realism, and the need to provide for assessing the student's work."
"A completely new variable-density modulator utilizing a three ribbon push-pull valve is described. The entire valve is sealed by the force of the Alnico V permanent magnet on the Permendur pole pieces. Signal is applied to the center ribbon and noise-reduction currents are applied to the outer ribbons. True class A push-pull operation is obtained from the two component single ribbon valves by the use of an inverter prism which aligns the modulating and noise-reduction edges of each aperture.  An anamorphote condenser lens is used to eliminate lamp filament striations at the valve ribbon plane. An anamorphote objective lens gives a 4:1 reduction of the valve aperture in the vertical plane at the film and a 2:1 reduction along the length of the sound track. A meter is supplied to measure exposure as well as setting up bias. A photocell monitor is supplied and a blooping light for indicating synchronous start marks.  Mathematical analysis of the exposure produced by the modulating ribbon is appended as well as a similar analysis of the four ribbon push-pull valve which the new valve supersedes."
"A splice is a little thing; and being little, it has been given but little attention. If we are to take heed of the advice of our Scotch friends, we must remember that many a mickle makes a muckle and pay more attention to our splices."
"A brief description of the plot, buildings, and equipment of New York's newest motion picture studio operated by the RKO-Pathe Corporation."
"The hardening action of aluminum and chromium upon gelatin is explained on the basis of the formation of chemical compounds between the metal ionr and gelatin protein molecules. The metal ions must possess a positive charge in ordes that they may combine with the negatively charged carboxyl groups. The factors which affect the degree of combination are discussed in detail for both aluminum and chromium, the most important being the pH values of the solutions and the presence of competing anions.  Aluminum fixing baths harden at pH values between 3.5 and 6.0, with the pH of maximum hardening dependent upon the complexing anions that are present. Data are presented that permit selection of the most suitable formulas that can be used under given operating conditions.  Ion migration experiments and other tests are detailed which indicate that chromium fixing baths lose their active hardening properties when the charge on the complex chromium molecules becomes zero or negative. Combination of positively charged chromium and gelatin carboxyl groups is relatively independent of chromium concentration. Complex chromium molecules of zero charge are lightly held by the gelaatin and cause hardening only during and following the drying of the gel.  Chromium fixing baths harden gelatin at pH values from 3 to 6, with the pH of maximum hardening depending upon the sulfite-to-chromium-molal ratio and the age of the solution. Bisulfite ions form complex ions with chromium and increase the rate of hydrolysis of the chromium ions, thereby tending to cause loss of the hardening properties of the solutions with age. By limiting the pH to 4.0 and using a molal ratio of sulfite to chromium less than 2:1, the active hardening properties of a chromium fixing both are at least partially retained. Other conditions are presented under which the hardening properties are also maintained.  Hypo and silver are retained in washed films by both aluminum and chromium if the complex metal molecules still possess a positive charge after combination with the gelatin occurs. The pH values of the solutions and the presence of complex-forming anions are factors which influence the formation of the desired monovalent complex metal ions."
"A method is described and formulas given to determine mathematically the relative angular displacement and film velocity ratios in the regular Geneva movement as used in 35-mm motion picture projectors."
"Some pictorial evidence of all motion pictures produced should be preserved. Bulkiness of material, however, and expense of handling makes preservation of all motion pictures in their entirety impracticable. A solution may be found in the use of film strip which would preserve one frame of each important scene.  The Library of Congress proposes to preserve a considerable part of the motion pictures produced. Considerations in selection policy include possible uses to be made of such a collection, the avoidance of repetitions matter, and the public acclaim given such material in the form of both critical opinion and box office returns.  The collection will be world-wide in scope and will include both 35-mm and 16-mm film. The motion picture industry is invited to cooperate in creating a national film library on the theory that such a library will be mutually advantageous to all concerned government, education, research personnel, procedures, and others."
"A description is given of the equipment devised to train gunners to hit fast-moving targets. The more important and novel features are discussed. The trainer not only reproduces for the observer any desired environment and target, but also correctly simulates conditions of fire in a way that otherwise could only be found in actual combat."
"The picture pickup devices film, television pickup tube, and eye are subject ultimately to the same limitations in performance imposed by the discrete nature of light flux. The literature built up around each of these devices does not reflect a similar unity of terminology. The present paper is exploratory and attempts a unified treatment of the three devices in terms of an ideal device. The performance of the ideal device is governed by the relation $$scene\\ brightness=constant {(signal\\hbox{-}to\\hbox{-}noise\\ ratio)^{2}\\over picture\\ element area\\times quantum\\ efficiency}$$  The three devices are shown to approximate this type of performance sufficiently well to use it as a guide in treating their common problems. Simple criteria are derived for characterizing the performance of any one device as well as for comparing the performance of different devices. For example, quantum efficiency is used to measure sensitivity; the signal-to-noise ratio, associated with a standard element area, is used to measure both resolution and half-tone discrimination. The half-tone discrimination of the eye governs the visibility of noise in the reproduced picture and, in particular, requires that pictures be photographed or picked up at increased scene brightness when the brightness of the reproduction is increased. The observation and interpretation of visual noise are discussed."
"Only five per cent of the capital invested in the motion picture industry is in studios and distribution facilities. Ninety-five per cent, aggregating a total of $1,900,000,000, is invested in motion picture theaters and their equipment. This staggering investment is in the hands of the exhibitor. He needs technical advice.  The Society of Motion Picture Engineers has built up the necessary body of technical knowledge; but the exhibitor cannot follow the Society's work in detail because he is equally harassed with many theater problems. The Society should arrange to segregate and collect those items of information appearing throughout its Journal which would be of direct help to him. These could then be published in handy reference form for dealing with theater projection problems. There is no other single aid to good projection that could be more helpful."
"This paper is an analysis of the essential factors governing the most desirable dynamic frequency response of an RCA variable-area sound recording channel, and includes a study of the most suitable location of the various equalizers employed in the system. It consists of five parts: (1) Derivation of equalization characteristic for the RCA sound-on-film recording channel; (2) Review of effort equalization and of relative spectral energy distortion in electronic compressors; (3) Recommended recording channel equalization; (4) Experimental work; (5) Conclusions.  By dividing the paper into these interrelated parts, the different phases of the subject can be studied more conveniently than if no such subdivisions were made. Also, the fifth part contains the results and recommendations reached in the first four parts."
"Two unit direct-radiator loudspeakers may be constructed in many different ways. In order to determine some of the characteristics, a number of experimental designs were built and tested. As a result of these experiments, it appeared that the duo-cone loudspeaker, consisting of two coaxial, congruent, separately driven cones, possessed many constructional, theoretical, and experimental advantages. Consequently, a detailed theoretical and experimental investigation of the duo-cone loud-speaker was carried out to determine the optimum values for the constants of the system from the standpoint of the following characteristics: pressure response, directional pattern, distortion, and transient response. The results of these investigations are included."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic or microfilm copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from The Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y., at prevailing rates."
"The following symposium on the production and significance of the present-day newsreel was one of the discussions in the series of popular subjects arranged by the Atlantic Coast Section of the Society to promote a wider knowledge of motion picture industry techniques and practices. Newsreel operation in peace and war and a rsum of the details of production are described by staff members of Movietone News."
"The concentrated-arc lamp is an arc lamp provided with permanent electrodes which are sealed into an argon-filled glass envelope. The light source is a sharply defined luminous disk on the end of a specially prepared zirconium oxide cathode. The radiation has a gray body distribution with the superimposed atomic spectra of zirconium and argon. In the various sizes of lamps new made the light-emitting spot ranges from 40 to 100 candles per sq mm in brightness and from 0.003 to 0.06 in. in diameter.  Small-sized lamps furnish a close approach to a point source and have application in optical testing and demonstrating. Medium-sized lamps make increased detail rendition and depth of focus possible in microscopy and the photographic enlarger. Large-sized lamps are a pplicable in the field of projection."
"The optical design of high-speed cameras can be improved by considering the results of a systematic analysis of the various optical aberrations which arise with the rotation of the polygonal refracting prism."
"A new method for the quantitative chemical analysis of hydroquinone and metol is suggested that is more rapid and, in some cases, more accurate than previous methods.  Molecular hydroquinone and methyl p-amino phenol are extracted from the developer at pH 8.0 to 8.5 with methyl acetate. The extract is dissolved directly in water and titrated with hydrochloric acid to determine metol, and then with iodine at pH 6.5 to 7.0 to determine the sum of the metol and the hydroquinone."
"A method of analysis for Elon and hydroquinone in developers is described involving the use of methyl ethyl ketone as the extracting solvent. Tests showed it to be a better extracting solvent for Elon and hydroquinone than methyl acetate or ethyl acetate. Analyses made employing methyl ethyl ketone with the U-tube extraction method showed it to have the necessary accuracy and reproducibility for use in production control."
"The Special Devices Division of the Navy's Office of Research and Inventions conceived the idea of projecting the image of a solid model on a screen. For this particular trainer it was desired to project an airplane model on a spherical screen. Moreover, the image itself had to be movable so as to be positioned at any point on the spherical screen. Among the many problems which had to be overcome were depth of field, as in microphotography, the level of illumination, as in all epidiascopes, and finally the wide range of magnification.  Many optical combinations were computed and tested, as well as a variety of light sources and condensing designs. The most suitable combination was adopted and built into the first model."
"Reproduction of the sound recorded on sound film is usually accomplished by means of a narrow beam of light thrown upon the film in a direction perpendicular to that in which the sound track is moving. The fluctuations in the light flux passed through are converted into sound. With this method a noise results which is caused by the fact that part of the light passed through is intercepted by specks of dust, scratches, etc., on the sound track, especially when the film has already been used several times. This article describes a method of counteracting this noise in cases where the sound is recorded as so-called amplitude writing. The beam of light is replaced by a series of equidistant light spots moving with great velocity perpendicular to the sound track. In addition to the theoretical fundamentals of the method, a practical form of application is also discussed."
"Motion pictures are not realizable as such until they are perceived by the brain through the eye. The manner in which the eye operates is dealt with, particularly those functions having to do with perceiving objects as solids. The intelligent employment of motion picture taking equipment now in use, in making it conform to the requirements of the eye, can result in an important contribution to three-dimensional perception from the screen. Some 15 aids in promoting the illusion of depth are dealt with in this paper."
"It is the purpose of proper lighting to mold the dimensions, transmit the plane, and give to motion pictures the necessary mood and beauty. The screen image is a modified light reflection of reality, and light is the main source of photographic construction. This paper deals with the all important necessity of successful production, the exposition of lighting as a method. The theory and its application in practice are discussed. The employment of the principles of illusion in achieving photographic presentation is considered."
"A simplified sound film theater reproducer is described. The machine holds the film under constant tension and has a minimum of moving parts."
"The following article describes a new design of film reproducer which has brought the flutter content to a minimum, and which will maintain its low flutter rate regardless of ordinary wear and tear. Other unique features embodied in the design are a new optical system, rugged construction and ease of maintenance."
"Industrial standards are by nature not static rigid limits that once established must be adhered to religiously for all time. They are subject to change as are the changing times and so must be reviewed, revised, and brought up to date periodically, if the industry that prepared them is to continue to look on them with favor."
"The membership of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers grew during 1945 from 1676 to 1966. This increase is consistent with the trend during the war years. While it is a healthy, normal growth, the Committee feels that in 1946 it could be materially accelerated. To a large extent the new members acquired during the last several years have consisted of men in the Armed Forces engaged in motion picture activities. However, it is obvious that there are still many competent engineers and scientists working in our industry who are not members and who undoubtedly would like to become members if they knew the requirements of admission."
"To pass upon all applications for membership applications for transfer and to review the Student and Associate membership list periodically for possible transfers to the Associate and Active grades, respectively. The duties of each committee are limited to applications and transfers originating in the geographic area covered."
"The name of this association shall be SOCIETY OF MOTION PICTURE ENGINEERS."
"In accordance with the provisions of Administrative Practices of the Society, the regulations of procedure for the Journal Award and the Progress Medal Award, a list of the names of previous recipients, and the reasons therefor, shall be published annually in the JOURNAL as follows."
"The cash records of the Treasurer were audited for the year ended December 31, 1945, by Sparrow, Waymouth and Company, certified public accountants, New York, and are in conformity with the above report."
"Foreign language releases of American motion picture films were discussed by W. A. Pozner of MGM International Films Corporation, New York, at the meeting of the Atlantic Coast Section of the Society on February 13. The meeting was held in the auditorium of the Museum of Modem Art, New York."
"This paper describes a method for the calibration of the effective f/stop value of a camera lens in terms of the light transmitted by the lens. Owing to light losses within a lens, the f/value determined in this manner will normally be numerically larger than the values obtained from the geometry of the lens. However, stop values based on transmission are of considerably greater value to a cameraman than values based on apertures.  An interrupted, collimated beam of light falls on the entrance port of an integrating sphere. The lens to be calibrated is centered over the opening and the light output from the sphere measured through a stable a-c amplifier equipment. A calibration curve is then obtained for the equipment wherein metal plates with holes of known diameters are placed over the entrance of the sphere in place of the lens. The effective aperture of the lens is then defined as the size of opening which will pass the same total amount of light as the lens under calibration. This method avoids the use of secondary standards and should be capable of duplication in any laboratory."
"The 3 new Ansco Color Films which are designed for producing full color motion picture release prints are described. These films are (1) Ansco Color Type 735 (Camera Film), (2) Ansco Color Type 132 (Duplicating Film), and (3) Ansco Color Type 732 (Release Film). Methods for making second generation dupes, special effects, lap dissolves, etc., are discussed, and the procedure for printing sound tracks is outlined."
"Two considerations are involved in the sensitometric evaluation of reversible color film; we are interested in determining the gray-scale characteristics of the material, as well as its faithfulness of color rendition. Equations have been derived relating the equivalent densities of the 3 layers to the color densitometer readings. The 3 curves showing equivalent densities as functions of log exposure indicate speeds, contrasts, maximum densities, and color balance of the film. Color rendition problems are investigated using the principles of colorimetry.  The equivalent densities of a reproduction depend upon the spectral sensitivities of the material as well as the spectral characteristics of the light source and color sample; the color of the reproduction, however, depends not only upon the equivalent densities but also upon the spectral characteristics of the dyes and of the projection source. A typical problem is that of the effect of change of contrast upon the color renditions. Unit contrast, although giving lighter reproductions, involves saturation errors which are prohibitive. A contrast of 1.5 is found to more nearly balance the errors of lightness, hue and saturation."
"In view of the use of dye image sound track on new-type color film, a phototube has been developed with characteristics suitable for sound reproduction from these films as well as from ordinary silver tracks. It is a gas-filled, high-sensitivity phototube for use in standard reproducing equipment. The maximum spectral response occurs in the blue blue-green region of the spectrum. Details of construction, sensitivity, characteristic curves, spectral response, frequency response, and life are presented."
"The introduction of new color emulsions to the industry makes it necessary for the sound engineer to investigate problems in connection with the recording and reproducing of quality tracks on this new medium.  This paper is a discussion of the results of some preliminary tests made with variable-area tracks on Ansco reversible monopack color film. The tracks were processed in exactly the same manner as for picture and therefore are of dye composition.  Three specific methods of printing are discussed. Quantitative measurements of tracks containing modulated and constant-amplitude tones reproduced with the new gas-filled blue-sensitive and the ordinary red-sensitive phototubes are given."
"A new phototube designed to provide optimum performance when used in reproducers with films having standard black-and-white silver sound tracks, or with color films having either dye or edge-treated sound tracks, has been developed in the RCA laboratories.  Some results of laboratory tests and field observations when the new phototube is substituted for the standard red-sensitive 868-type phototube are discussed."
"The following paper, reprinted from Electronics, describes a photoelectric system which feeds a bank of stylii producing on Teledeltos paper a recording of camera shutter-opening area plotted against time, for testing both iris and focalplane shutters. Direct-indicating accessory shows per cent deviation from rated shutter speed.  The editors of the Journal feel that the methods and equipment outlined here will be of timely interest to members in the motion picture industry and allied fields."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals Photostatic or microfilm copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from The Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y., at prevailing rates."
"This paper consists of an introduction describing the history of dubbing technique, a section describing the importance of sound perspective, and a detailed description of the dubbing method used by M-G-M International Films Corporation."
"The Society of Motion Picture Engineers is an international engineering organization composed of a group of individuals associated in a general partnership to conduct a business, paying no salaries to officers or members, but operating on a nonmonetary principle to recommend engineering procedures; to guide, to some extent, research and development; to encourage improvement; and to lead standardization within the motion picture industry. It enjoys all the normal legal privileges of a nonprofit organization."
"This paper is a discussion of technical things to be accomplished if motion pictures are to remain the best form of entertainment presentation at competitive cost. It includes ways and means of better utilizing the developments of World War II, also suggested usages of some of these developments."
"The paper covers design and operating considerations for two foreign-dubbing and post-synchronization studios recently built on top of the Music Building of the Warner Brothers lot in Hollywood, California. After describing constructional details to provide satisfactory acoustical conditions in the rooms, the paper concerns itself with the technique of adding foreign dialogue to completed pictures and dubbing in replacement lines to photographed sequences which, originally, were too noisy to permit the recording of intelligible speech."
"This paper describes how these two picture-reproducing techniques can work together with growing advantages to both, rather than engaging in bitter rivalry as erroneously anticipated."
"In the course of the Navy aviation training program, a projector had to be designed to project the image of a target vessel on a curved cyclorama screen, and to make this projected image perform all the real and apparent motions of an actual battleship, as seen from the cockpit of a maneuvering aircraft.  The projected image had to wander all around the horizon. It had to become larger and smaller under due consideration of the angle of depression corresponding to that particular range. Also, the projected target had to be able to make all kinds of turns and maneuvers to simulate actual combat conditions. To achieve all this a special nonintermittent 16-mm film projector for variable speed and variable magnification was built, and is described in the following paper."
"Editing film with its constant splicing and movements through moviola, synchronization, and projection machines subjects the prints to severe wear and damage. Splices and repairs must be made speedily and accurately. Time also is an important factor in meeting the release date.  This paper describes a new type of splicing machine which does not use cement, heat, or require scraping of film."
"This paper describes a recording transmision system in a single, compact, lightweight unit, capable of excellent performance together with reliable and simple operation."
"An absolute and physically sound method developed at Bausch & Lomb is described for the photometric calibration of lens apertures.  Essentially the method consists in comparing the total flux from a depolished opal glass aperture with the flux through a given lens at a definite stop opening when focused on the opal glass aperture. An integrating sphere is used to collect the flux in the two cases and readings are made proportional to the flux with two matched barrier layer photocells. The theoretical development and some numerical results are given."
"A film which is specially adapted for photographing images on the P-4 monitor tube surface has been prepared. Optical sensitization is adjusted to yield peaks of sensitivity within the blue to yellow spectral region corresponding to the emission of the P-4 screen. Resolving power of the film has been found of controlling importance when used in 16-mm size and this factor has affected the choice of emulsion for this purpose. The film may be employed either as a negative or reversed."
"The expected reproduction characteristics are examined for the cases where film is included as one step of the television process. Features of performance to be expected from both negatives and prints as image sources are predicted from average characteristics of elements of the television system. A dynamic test procedure for the investigation of the over-all reproduction curve involving film and television is described. Actual tests confirm the theoretical prediction that a negative film with a rising shoulder characteristic may provide superior television images."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic or microfilm copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from The Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y., at prevailing rates."
"When dupe negatives are employed to make large releases on 16-mm positive, 3 successive printing operations are normally involved in arriving at the release print. That is, the master positive, dupe negative, and release print are made in order. Since each printing operation is attended by some degree of quality degeneration, it is desirable to reduce the operations to a minimum.  In the application described, the first printing is eliminated by rerecording to direct positive on 16-mm film. The amplifier channel feeding the direct-positive recorder is suitably equalized and compressed for 16-mm projection conditions, and bridges the channel used to make the normal rerecorded negative for 35-mm release. A 32-mm release negative is then made on a nonslip printer from the 16-mm direct positive."
"This paper is a case history of the manufacture and distribution of 35-mm motion picture projection and sound equipment under wartime restrictions as imposed by War Production Board regulations. It tells about the difficulties and problems which were encountered and overcome so that the Armed Forces might obtain all of the equipment needed, with a limited quantity for our civilian theaters. The paper also discusses the reasons why our manufacturers cannot now produce as much new equipment as will be needed for replacements, and makes recommendations for future planning."
"The commonest sources of contamination of motion picture film in processing laboratories are discussed, and suggestions are made for preventing foreign matter finding its way onto the surface of the film. The tacky-dish technique and other methods of detection of dirt sources are described, and examples are given of surveys made in actual Hollywood laboratories.  The film handled in processing laboratories can be contaminated by dirt associated with the outside air used in the laboratory, by personnel, by mechanical equipment, or by processing solutions. It has been found that when there are complaints about dirt, etc., a systematic investigation usually reveals the source of the trouble quickly. This is particularly true if quantitative measurements are taken. These data allow one to construct a flow sheet which indicates the place where dirt is entering the system. The new tools used for this purpose are the smoke recorder, the tacky-dish, and the method of lifting samples. The Greenough microscope is a most useful and almost indispensable adjunct.  The choice of air filtration systems and the proper kinds of uniforms are also discussed briefly."
"A new recorder is described which produces direct recorded 16-mm buzz track film of exceptional accuracy. The track has a dense center portion to reduce ground noise and the edge modulations form a continuous exposure with the center portion."
"This paper describes the permanent magnet type of Duplex loudspeaker and its use in theater public address systems. Its efficiency and frequency response is shown. Special types of baffles for the sides of the stage and above the screen are described. Because of its high efficiency and wide angle of distribution and extreme frequency range along with its small physical size, it provides a 2-way horn system with many advantages over those in present use."
"High-speed motion pictures, high-speed still pictures, special recording devices, and color photography have all played important parts in the design and engineering program of the Army Air Forces. This paper outlines some of the more important applications."
"Aerial Kodacolor has been found suitable as a cure for trace entangled, illegible, oscillographic recordings. A ***in. width film is available that in combination with filtered light beams is productive of distinctly differing color traces at recording speeds up to 20 in. per sec."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic or microfilm copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from The Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y., at prevailing rates."
"High-speed motion picture photography has played a very important part in the development of machines and working devices by providing a convenient means for analyzing the behavior of moving parts. A wide angle high-speed motion picture camera has recently been designed. The camera takes pictures at rates up to 3500 per sec and has a 40-degree field of view. This field of view allows the camera to photograph a 71-ft field when 100 ft away. The problems of design and applications of the camera are discussed."
"This paper describes the improved methods of cataloguing and filing motion picture film. While very compact, the film catalogue system permits very rapid location of a single frame of the desired shot."
"During the discussion period of the meeting of the Atlantic Coast Section of the Society held on December 13, 1944, in New York, F. G. Albin gave an interesting account of a study by which anomalous intermodulation results were traced to chemical drag. With this discussion as a background, it was possible to recognize the effect easily when encountered in a different manner; while purely qualitative the direct demonstration of an effect previously detected by indirect means appears to be of interest."
"This paper discusses data and observations made with a loudspeaker system outdoors with regard to sound transmission as affected by such factors as wind, temperature, and humidity. Other data are given on measured and computed sound pressure distribution characteristics of multiple element radiators."
"A machine is described by which defective splices, dirt, and pops are detected before running the film through a regular sound reproducer."
"As a supplement to other types of meters for measuring voltages of fluctuating amplitude, one was developed which integrates the voltage being measured over a chosen interval (a few seconds), and at the end of the interval indicates the average value that has existed. The laboratory model of the meter is described and its operation explained. Some possible applications to sound engineering are suggested."
"This survey covers phototemplate methods now in use in the Southern California airframe industry. These methods are concerned with the photographic reproduction of original engineering line drawings. Although the methods outlined are most extensively used in the manufacture of aircraft at the present time, they can be readily adapted to other fields where the rapid, accurate, and economical reproduction of engineering information is required. Engineers in the airframe industry are certain phototemplate methods will be indispensable in meeting postwar competition; it is thought other industries with similar line reproduction problems will find these methods indispensable to their post-war operations. Accordingly, working details on the following procedures, which have been proved by heavy production use, are given for the information and guidance of engineers: excitation, camera; and reflex methods; other satisfactory but less extensively used methods; and practical methods for applying gelatin-silver-halide emulsions to surfaces at the work site. The survey concludes with a table giving comparative cost and production data on the 3 major methods."
"The editors present for convenient reference a list of articles dealing with subjects cognate to motion picture engineering published in a number of selected journals. Photostatic or microfilm copies of articles in magazines that are available may be obtained from The Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., or from the New York Public Library, New York, N. Y., at prevailing rates."
"This standard applies to all air circuit breakers with interrupting rating over 10,000 amperes as follows: A. Air circuit breakers 1500 volts or less alternating current and 3000 volts or less direct current. Special purpose air circuit breakers for the control of generators, rectifiers and for heavy duty applications, in addition to meeting these standards generally have other requirements not yet standardized. B. All field discharge breakers comprising air circuit breaker contact elements with field discharge contacts added, of any ampere rating single pole or multipole. C. Air circuit breakers assembled as integral units in supporting and enclosing housings of insulation material for voltage ratings up to and including 600 volts alternating current, 250 volts direct current. D. Air circuit breakers, when in individual enclosures usually built of steel for separate mounting."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The subject of the Electrical Properties of Matter is so general and broad in scope that one reviewing it is immediately faced with the problem of what material to include and what to reject. This sorting-out process is to some extent influenced by the personal equation and reflects the reviewer's own interest. In writing this section of the Digest, an attempt has been made to place the emphasis on the physical aspects of dielectric behavior and on the relation between dielectric behavior and structure. The various aspects of microwave technology are also stressed in view of the newness of this field and the growing interest in dielectric investigations at microwave frequencies."
"During 1946 sons very interesting results on ceramic insulation problems were released which, for security reasons, were held back during the war years. Furthermore, investigators who visited Europe immediately after cessation of hostilities reported new developments which are currently published by the U.S. Department of Commerce."
"The end of the war and the lifting of travel restrictions has made possible a larger number of scientific meetings. The Committee on Chemistry of the National Research Council had its first meeting since the start of the war, at which a great many papers were presented on dielectrics. The American Chemical Society also had a symposium on electrical insulating materials at Atlantic City. New Plastic Insulators was the topic of discussion at the 19th meeting of the Electrochemical Society."
"During 1946, although the available quantity of natural rubber increased, the rubber industry in this country consumed very large quantities of synthetic. The use tor the year was 275,000 tons of natural rubber, and 750,000 tons of synthetic. The actual rate of use of natural rubber changed rapidly during the year."
"Capacitors - Their Use in Electronic Circuits1 - M. Brotherton. This small (104 page) volume contains a description of the electrical, physical and chemical properties of impregnated paper capacitors as well as their various applications in electronic circuits. Besides this most of the major improvements in the manufacture of capacitor in recent years are described briefly."
"Principal contributions to the literature on insulating oils that appeared in 1946 are reviewed briefly in the following text."
"This current volume marks the tenth annual review or the literature on dielectrics. It therefore seems fitting to give an account of the organization and functions of the Committee on Chemistry and Physics of the Conference on Electrical Insulation and to name some of the men who have been responsible for carrying out these functions."
