" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A paper has been published presenting the results of study of the tonal-range preferences of radio-broadcast listeners when listening to a system whose transmission characteristics were essentially uniform at all frequencies within the transmission band. The present report covers a new series of experiments designed to ascertain the preferences when listening to a system whose transmission characteristics are such as to compensate for the change in the response of the ear with loudness level. In addition, the effect of employing a reproducing system of entirely different components than those used in the original work was determined. The results of the study pertain to single-channel listening using present-day program pickup techniques. The main conclusions are as follows: (1) Most listeners do not prefer a wide range even when a fully compensated system is used. (2) Most listeners choose about the same bandwidth with either a compensated or an uncompensated system. If anything, most prefer a slightly narrower range with a compensated system. (3) Most listeners like bass and dislike an excess of high frequencies in music. In speech, they dislike sibilance. (4) Other changes in the reproducing system-the transcription reproducer, the amplifier channel, and the loudspeaker-did not influence tonal-range preferences. It may be (although it seems doubtful) that such slight residual distortions as existed in the reproducing system are enough to make listeners dislike wide range. But this hypothesis can be tested only when new methods are found to reduce further both electrical and acoustical distortion."
"This paper describes tests made on an experimental broad-band microwave f.m. repeater. A superheterodyne receiving unit is used with a microwave reflex-oscillator transmitting unit to form a repeater. An experimental setup for testing this repeater in a circulating-pulse system is described. Oscillograms showing the performance of the repeater on a multilink basis are discussed."
"A general analysis based upon information theory and the mathematical theory of probability is used to investigate the fundamental principles involved in the transmission of signals through a background of random noise. Three general theorems governing the probability relations between signal and noise are proved, and one is applied to investigate the effect of pulse length and repetition rate on radar range. The concept of \"generalized selectivity\" is introduced, and it is shown how and why extra bandwidth can be used for noise reduction. It is pointed out that most noise-improvement systems are based upon coherent repetition of the message information either in time or in the frequency spectrum. It is also pointed out why more powerful noise-improvement systems should be possible than have so far been made. The general mechanism of noise-improvement thresholds is discussed, and it is shown how they depend upon the establishment of a coherence standard. The reason for and the limitation of the apparent law that the maximum operating range of a communications system, for a given average power, is independent of the type of modulation used is then explained. General ways in which improvements in range of radar and communication systems may be made are also discussed. The possibility of using extra bandwidth to reduce distortion is pointed out. Finally, some possible relations of this work to biology and psychology are described."
"A two-stage feedback video amplifier is analyzed on the transient and steady-state bases, and a simplified design procedure is developed for each approach. Using the transient response of the amplifier to a step-voltage input as a basis, design curves have been prepared which allow determination of the necessary amplifier parameters when either the rise time (10 to 90 per cent of final amplitude) and the per cent transient overshoot, or alternatively, the per cent transient overshoot and the net gain, are specified. The effect of changes in-transconductance and resistor values on the output wave form is discussed. The low-frequency distortion of the input wave as a result of the interstage-coupling network is also considered, and a relation for the increase in the effective interstage time constant is derived. The steady-state response of the amplifier is examined in considerable detail, particular emphasis being given to provide an analysis which integrates with the transient study. It is found that an amplifier can be uniquely detemined by means of design curves, provided the overshoot in the steady-state characteristic and the frequency for 3-db attenuation, or alternatively, the midband gain and the overshoot in the steady-state characteristic, are known. In addition, the improvement in steady-state low-frequency response is determined."
"Performance characteristics for a good power amplifier in the 30- to 500-Mc. region are discussed and some tube design considerations are presented. It is shown that tetrodes inherently self-neutralize the radio-frequency feedback due to the plate-to-grid capacitance. This self-neutralization frequency may readily be shifted by simple circuit modifications. A comparison of neutralized triodes and neutralized tetrodes in the limiting frequency range is made, and tetrodes are shown to be inherently more stable as well as providing circuit advantages. Two new transmitting tetrode tubes are presented, one of which delivers 100 watts at 500 Mc."
"It has been shown by Bouwkamp and deBruijn that the directivity of a linear current distribution of fixed length may be made arbitrarily large. By a slight extension of their arguments, the same conclusion is demonstrated for a two-dimensional current distribution and for a distribution of current on an infinite strip."
"Webster's simple bunching theory is extended to include the simultaneous oscillation of a reflex klystron at two or more frequencies. General expressions for the power and electronic admittance are derived that show the intermodulation effects of the oscillations upon each other. It is shown that in the presence of a vigorous low-frequency oscillation, oscillations may be obtained simultaneously at a higher frequency if the transit time is (n+1/4) r.f. cycles. The \"normal\" oscillations obtained for (n+3/4) r.f. cycles are shown to be usually unstable in the presence of the low-frequency oscillation. An analysis is given of the power and electronic admittances obtained when the oscillation frequencies are exactly in the same ratio as two integers. The theory is found to explain the intermodulation effects previously reported by the author."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Communication between two places on the surface of the earth by reflecting radio waves off the moon is considered. Each terminal of the circuit must be in a direct line from the moon. Frequencies above about 50 Mc. should be suitable for penetrating the ionosphere at all times and at all angles of incidence to reach the moon. If the moon has a perfectly smooth reflecting surface, signals of all types, including wide-band television, could be utilized. If the moon has a perfectly diffuse reflecting surface, transmission would be limited to telegraph or teleprinter operation and, possibly, narrow-band telephone service. Transmitting powers now available would seem to be adequate."
"A study is made of certain factors affecting tolerance assignment in the production and operational stages of an electronic system. The procedure adopted is first to review very briefly some of the fundamentals of the statistical control of quality and the assignment of valid, economical production tolerances, and second to describe how the principles may be applied in the setting of some operational tolerances for an electronic system. The advantages to design and development derived from a knowledge of how tolerances, both productional and operational, are assigned, and how they combine statistically, are discussed."
"Propagation tests at frequencies between 3000 and 4000 Mc. are described. The effect on the received signal of changes in the index of refraction of the atmosphere are discussed, and means are suggested for minimizing signal variations with particular regard to the application of microwave-relay communication systems. Theoretical data is given on diffraction at these frequencies."
"A detailed description is given of the design features embodied in oscillator cavities and a single-antenna r.f. radiating system which enables simultaneous transmission and reception over an integral but highly portable radio set operating from 2200 to 2400 Mc. Interference-free amplitude-modulation communication is shown to be obtainable at these frequencies with exceedingly simple circuits."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes an amplifier circuit which yields very low noise factor, consisting of a grounded-cathode triode followed by a grounded-grid triode. The combination is entirely noncritical and provides the low noise factor of a triode with the high amplification and stability of a pentode. Noise factors averaging 0.25 db at a carrier frequency of 6 Mc. and 1.35 db at 30 Mc. have been achieved. Typical circuit details are given."
"Consideration is first accorded to the basic problem of the mixture of two colors of given luminosities. It is shown that a simple geometric construction will enable determination of the point on the chromaticity diagram corresponding to the mixture for any values of relative luminosities of the two component colors forming the ingredients of the mixture. The method is next expanded to consider the case of color reproduction by the three-color process using three primaries. Laws governing the amount of luminosity contributed to a color mixture by each of the three primary components are deduced and shown to be of simple type. Comparison of the results of choice of different sets of primaries are discussed and illustrated. The performance of equiluminous primary systems, such as have been proposed for sequential color television, is examined critically. The color-fidelity limitations inherent in such a system are demonstrated and discussed. The luminosity demands of each primary in a three-color television system are next examined, using the geometric method of analysis. For two given primary systems (those known as primaries A and primaries C, respectively), curves are shown indicating the contours of maximum luminosity demand of each primary when functioning in the reproduction of the full gamut of reproducible colors on the chromaticity diagram. It is shown that the maximum luminosity demand of any primary does not necessarily occur during the reproduction of white."
"A series of parabolic approximations has been obtained for portions of the Chapman distribution and its product with the collisional frequency. By their use, an improved approximate solution has been found for the \"true\" and the group height of reflection, and for the absorption in the region, under conditions of (1) vertical incidence, (2) wave frequency greater than the maximum collision frequency and less than the critical frequency for the region, and (3) with the earth's magnetic field neglected. These improved analytic approximations are compared with the usual parabolic approximation and with numerical approximations obtained by other workers."
"The principal aims of this paper are twofold: (1) to discuss and interrelate the various equivalent circuit representations of a general 2N-terminal waveguide structure that are obtained on different choices of terminal planes; and (2) to describe a precision method for measuring the circuit parameters of such structures. Basic to both of these considerations is a tangent relation introduced by Weissfloch to describe and measure the input-output behavior of a four-terminal waveguide structure."
"Expressions for the radiation resistances of end-fire and collinear arrays of half-wave dipoles are obtained in terms of circular functions in a form convenient for computation. No mathematical approximations except for a Fourier representation of the field of a single half-wave dipole are used. The first integral theorem of Sonine and an integral representation of the Bessel function due to Hansen are involved in the integration of the normal component of Poynting's vector. Results computed from the new formula for the radiation resistance of an n-element parallel array in which the spacings and successive phasings of the dipole elements are 180 degrees (bilateral end-fire) agree closely with those of Pistolkors, who used Brillouin's e.m.f. method; they are a little less than the figures of Bontsch-Bruewitsch, who numerically integrated Poynting's vector. Calculations for the radiation resistance of an n-element collinear array using the new formula are compared with those of Bontsch-Bruewitsch, with which they are in satisfactory agreement. The new formula is also used to compute the radiation resistance of an n-element unilateral end-fire array (i.e., an n-element parallel array in which the spacings and successive phasings of the dipole elements are 90 degrees)."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A significant change is taking place in the appearance of the control rooms of modern broadcasting studios. Only a few years ago this key point in the origination of a radio program was cluttered with racks and cabinets filled with audio gear. Today, the modern control room presents an air of spaciousness, as all equipment is out of sight within a small, functional, desk-size control console. In accomplishing this, no sacrifice has been made in performance, ease of operation, or accessibility. In fact, the modern control console provides many conveniences and facilities not present in the older installations. This paper discusses the considerations involved in the design of this modern type of broadcasting-studio audio control console. A number of new and novel features, not employed heretofore, are described. Many of the fundamental ideas and methods presented are applicable to services other than broadcasting."
"This paper reports results of a study showing that it should be feasible to restrict considerably the range within which radio signals may be received after reflection from the E layer of the ionosphere. This is accomplished by proper choice of operating frequency and by using a relatively simple directive array beamed vertically upwards. Other types of arrays, and other operating frequencies, are discussed for comparison."
"A system developed by R. V. Pound for frequency-stabilizing a microwave oscillator is discussed. The frequency range of the Pound stabilizer is considered, and a change in the microwave circuit is described which increases the usable frequency range of the stabilizing circuit. This new circuit is discussed in detail, and a graphical method of obtaining the frequency versus voltage characteristic is presented. The effect of harmonic distortion in the output of the stabilizing circuit when the microwave oscillator is frequency-modulated is discussed, and the amount of the distortion is evaluated."
"The effect of external signals on an amplitude-stabilized oscillator is discussed, and it is shown (a) that \"pulling effect\" is usually nonexistent, and (b) that an apparent synchronizing effect observable experimentally is due to a totally different phenomenon. Differences between these results and those given by Adler for different conditions are pointed out and explained."
"By exciting a harmonic of the Y′ wave in a -18.5°-rotated X-cut quartz plate, the electrodes of the elementary halfwave sections being electrically connected in parallel, and by choosing for each half-wave section the ratio ls′/ly′> 1, an appreciable reduction in inductance can be obtained; e.g., tenfold or more. With regard to disturbing frequencies, it will be useful to choose this ratio in the neighborhood of 1.8."
"By operating the grid of a triode at a positive potential it becomes a virtual cathode discharging electrons with uniform initial velocity, and thus a recent theory by Jaffé becomes applicable. The positive-grid characteristics of a number of radio receiving tubes are determined and matched with those determined from theory. Agreement, satisfactory under given conditions, is found in the region of low plate voltages. Departure of the experimental curves from the theoretical ones is discussed. Practical tubes tested do not, by any means, correspond to the ideal conditions of the theory: the electrodes are not plane; the electrostatic field is not homogeneous; secondary emission from the grid is present; contact potentials exist; and there is always a velocity distribution among the electrons. Nevertheless, the investigation points a way toward a better theory of the triode."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Electronic circuits of the \"frequency-counting\" type furnish, in response to a sinusoidal signal of frequency ω/27π, a continuous signal proportional to ω. It may then be expected that, within certain limits, if the frequency ω is modulated, this \"continuous\" signal output will reproduce the modulation. In this paper are studied, first, the validity of this principle of detection of frequency-modulated waves, with observations on the subject of detection in general, and second, the methods employed for carrying into effect the electronic counting."
"This paper discusses the properties of a communication system obtained by the use of a single microwave oscillator as both transmitter and beating oscillator of a superheterodyne receiver. The oscillator is stabilized in frequency by an electronic circuit at the frequency of a high-Q cavity and frequency-modulated about this stabilization frequency. The resultant communication sets are capable of very simple duplex communication in pairs, and evidence that he is being received at the other station is given to the operator initiating communication. An application to communication from ground to aircraft, utilizing the very large number of channels available in the microwave region, is discussed. A booster station for a relay link, based on the same principles, is suggested, and an experimental version of the duplex microwave communication set is described."
"The matrix equations for the triode in the grounded-cathode, grounded-plate, and grounded-grid connections are derived for linear operation. The nonbilateral characteristics of the networks are pointed out, and a table relating matrix elements is calculated on this basis. The formula for the gain of an amplifier is derived for one stage and then for m identical stages. Two examples are given which illustrate the advantages of the matrix method."
"The problem of a helix-type traveling-wave amplifier tube, under certain simplifying assumptions, is solved as a boundary-value problem. The results indicate that the presence of the beam in the helix causes the normal mode to break up into three modes with different propagation characteristics. Over a finite range of electron velocities one of the three waves has a negative attenuation, and is thus amplified as it travels along the helix. If the electron velocity is too high or too low for net energy interaction, all three waves have purely imaginary propagation constants; no amplification occurs. Consideration of the beam admittance functions shows that, during amplification, the electron beam behaves like a generator with negative conductance, supplying power to the fields through a net loss of kinetic energy by the electrons. Curves are shown for a typical tube, and the effects of beam current and beam radius are indicated. The initial conditions are investigated, as are the conditions of signal level and limiting efficiency. In the Appendix a simple procedure for computing the attenuation constant is given."
"A method is outlined whereby a given attenuation curve is approximated by the addition of a finite number of semi-infinite slopes, each of which in turn is closely approximated by the attenuation curve of a Butterworth function. These functions therefore constitute a set of approximation functions for impedance functions. The set is extended by the addition of Tschebyscheff functions, which seem more appropriate for the approximation of curves with filter properties. The method avoids most of the labor normally involved in the numerical solution of approximation problems and the calculation of impedance zeros and poles. It seems especially suited for cases of rather smooth attenuation curves extending over a wide range of frequency. A short indication is given of how to apply the same method to the approximation of resistance, reactance, and phase functions."
"The response of a many-stage amplifier to a unit step of voltage is to be calculated. From this, the response to rectangular pulses may be inferred. In order to simplify the calculations, it is assumed that the pass band is narrow compared to the center frequency so that a low-pass equivalent circuit may be analyzed, and its behavior will describe sufficiently accurately the behavior of the amplifier."
"Theoretical curves are shown of the electric field in the forward direction and in the backward direction for a center-driven half-wave dipole in the presence of a parallel center-tuned parasite of the same length and radius. The ratio of the electric field of the two-antenna array to the field of the driven unit alone at constant power is given as a function of the distance b between the antennas in the range from b = 0 to b = λ0, for both the forward direction (the parasite is a reflector) and the backward direction (the parasite is a director). The total reactance of the parasitic antenna is used as a parameter in the form X22= Xs2+ X2where Xs2= Xs1, is the self-reactance of the parasite in the presence of the identical, driven dipole and X2is the tuning reactance at the center of the parasite. Values for which curves are shown are X22= 20, 10, 0, -10, -20 ohms and X22= Xs2or X2= 0. Reactances and resistances used are those of the first-order King-Middleton-Tai theory."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"This is a revised version of an address delivered at the Annual Banquet, 1948 IRE National Convention, New York, NY, USA, March 24, 1948. The author notes, this is not the occasion to speak of international relations, but it is perhaps appropriate to remark that in the field of radio we have a very great part to play together, and hopes and trusts that in it we shall lose no opportunity of cooperating to the full."
"An important difference between the underwater weapons of World War II and their predecessors was the use of electronic devices both in the weapons and in the techniques for their development and evaluation. Some of these techniques have now been made available, of which four are described; namely: (1) a recording accelerometer which gives the time-acceleration curve for a missile dropped at high speed into the water; (2) acoustic instrumentation used in the ranging of torpedoes; (3) a system for recording very low-frequency acoustic waves; and (4) a system for telemetering back information from a free weapon operating under water."
"The behavior of an a.v.c. amplifier, following a sudden change of input level, is analyzed on the basis of the following assumptions, which are justified in the case of many practical a.v.c. amplifiers: (1) the open-circuit voltage developed by the rectifier is a linear function of the decibel output level of the amplifier; (2) the decibel gain reduction in the controlled stages is a linear function of the gain-control voltage; (3) only one resistance-capacitance filter section is important in delaying delivery of the rectifier output voltage to the gain-control points. It is shown that the last condition is desirable from the standpoint of stability. The analysis shows that, following a sudden change of input level, the fraction (1-1/e) of the decibel gain change required to reach a new equilibrium occurs in (RC)/M seconds. RC is the time constant of the filter section specified in assumption (3), while M, a dimensionless \"flatness factor,\" is defined as the decibel change of input level required to produce a 1-db change of output level, under equilibrium conditions. Further, M = 1 + K1K2, where K1is the rectifier voltage increase per db increase of amplifier output, and K2is the db gain reduction per volt of control. If the change of input level is sufficient in magnitude to cause amplifier overload (or \"underload\"-stoppage of rectifier action), the control voltage changes with the time constant RC until the overload disappears. Overload may greatly increase the time required for gain readjustment."
"This paper gives the results of horizontal microwave angle-of-arrival measurements made at a location on the King Ranch, a few miles south of the Naval Air Station at Corpus Christi, Texas. Small deviations of the angle of arrival in a landward direction from the geometric path were noticed at nearly all times. Sixty per cent of the measurements showed angular deviations less than 0.015°, and 90 per cent showed deviation less than 0.03°. The angular deviation is directly proportional to path length if constant gradient persists over the path. Under this condition, deviations greater than 0.10° will be expected, 10 per cent of the time, on a path 23 miles long. The measured angular deviations show a general correlation with the measured horizontal gradient of index of refraction. Meteorological soundings showed overwater ducts present nearly all of the time, with a maximum difference of approximately 50 M units between the surface of the water and the 38-foot level."
"Interference between different radio circuits is an old problem, one which in the past generally has been solved by trial and error and by hand tailoring (special filters, etc.). With the general increase in the usage of radio communication, however, the amount of potential interference is greatly increased. This paper will be concerned principally with the v.h.f. problem. There is generally a large difference between transmitting and receiving power levels. As a result, spurious radiations, spurious responses, and lack of sufficient receiver selectivity may in many instances cause interference. Situations are described in which such interferences are likely. In mobile systems interference can occur if the interfering station is close enough to \"capture\" it from the desired signal. This, in turn, depends upon the selectivity and spurious response of the receiver and the amount of spurious radiation from the transmitter. The problem can be approached in a statistical manner. The types of spurious radio behavior which are common causes of interference are discussed. Sample measurements are given to illustrate the relative magnitude of the various modes of behavior. Formulas are given which permit computation of the frequency of the disturbances. A method is described for making charts suitable for a given type of equipment from which the spurious frequencies can be read directly as a function of the operating frequency."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper presents a new principle in wide-band amplifier design. It is shown that, by an appropriate distribution of ordinary electron tubes along artificial transmission lines, it is possible to obtain amplification over much greater bandwidths than would be possible with ordinary circuits. The ordinary concept of \"maximum bandwidth-gain product\" does not apply to this distributed amplifier. The high-frequency limit of the distributed amplifier appears to be determined by the grid-loading effects. The distributed amplifier provides means for designing amplifiers either of the low-pass or band-pass types. The low-pass amplifiers can be made to have a uniform frequency response from dc to frequencies as high as several hundred Mc using commercially available tubes. The general design considerations included in this paper are: The effect of improper termination of transmission lines; methods for controlling the frequency response and phase characteristic; the design which provides the required gain with fewest possible number of tubes; and a discussion of high-frequency limitations. The noise factor of the amplifier is evaluated. Practical amplifiers, designed according to the principles described in this paper, have been built and have verified the theoretical predictions. Experimental work will be described in a forthcoming paper."
"After we introduction, a short description is given of the equipment developed before 1940, followed by a survey of the principles of the modern equipment. The way in which the automatic tuning in the receiver in accomplished is described in detail. A summary is given of the advantages of the modern equipment with respect to the earlier art. In an appendix, some theoretical considerations are given with respect to the automatic tuning control; particularly, the conditions for a stable circuit are derived."
"A method of measurements of high accuracy has been developed for investigations of telegraph signals from high-frequency stations. Very exact time-interval measurements were obtained at echo signals on distant high-frequency transmitters within the frequency range between 10 and 20 Mc, presuming definite ionospheric conditions which are limited to a few hours daily. The time interval of a signal circulating completely around the earth manifests itself as a constant value of 0.13778 seconds. It seems to be quite independent from the radio frequency used, and further, from the daily and seasonal conditions; and no changes could be perceived during the course of three years. By the occurrence of the indirect signals which reach the recording place along the opposite great-circle path after a measurable time interval later than the direct signals, exact measurements have been possible on such high-frequency transmitters more than 1000 kilometers away. For these cases, the errors were ±25 kilometers from the true values of the geographical distances. A strange multiple-path phenomenon occurred on telegraph signals at less-distant stations regarding the principal signal, which is split into the signal which arrives first, the socalled direct signal, and into one or more retarded signals. It has been found and explained that no exact determination of distances is possible for transmitting stations which are less than about 1000 kilometers from the recording place."
"As the beam current in a traveling-wave tube is increased, the local fields due to the bunched beam become appreciable compared with the fields propagating along the circuit. The effect is to reduce gain, to increase the electron speed for optimum gain, to introduce a lower limit to the range of electron speeds for which gain is obtained, and to change the initial loss."
"A formula is derived to give the variation in received voltage when an elliptically polarized antenna is rotated in a plane ransverse to the direction of propagation of the incident elliptically tolarized wave. It is shown that a circularly polarized antenna will pot receive any of its transmitted energy which is reflected from a nighly conducting smooth surface. Conditions that must be satisfied ho obtain an omnidirectional circularly polarized pattern are derived. Experimental results are given."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The development of the use of distributed constants and of discontinuities, in lines of fixed length, for the design of resonant circuits at frequencies between 300 and 3000 Mc is discussed. Various types of these circuits and their characteristics are shown with an indication of their advantages and disadvantages when used as variable frequency elements."
"This paper embodies some of the results of a study undertaken because of the lack of substantial agreement among colorimetric determinations made from cathode-ray-tube screens by television manufacturers in the United States. The ICI (International Commission on Illumination) system of color specification is described, and is applied to the visible light produced by cathode-ray screens. A survey was made of the principal colorimetric methods now in use by television manufacturers. These methods have been evaluated in terms of how closely their inherent characteristics meet the criteria of the 1931 ICI Standard Observer. The necessity for standardization of colorimetric measuring equipment is pointed out. Suggestions are offered as to the manner in which such standardization might be achieved."
"This paper describes the development and construction of a modified ring- or stepping-type counter capable of operating at a megacycle rate. Two special features are described: the input-pulse commutator, and the method of interstage coupling. Application to electronic digital computing work is discussed briefly."
"The cathode-coupled negative-resistance circuit is considered at medium, low, and high frequencies. The effects of supply-voltage variations are also treated. It is found that the more common types of dual triodes are capable of developing a negative resistance of the order of 1000 ohms. It is also found that these tubes are useful as oscillators well into the vhf range with this circuit. The assumption is made that amplitudes are sufficiently small to permit the use of linear tube parameters. It should be noted that frequently this is not the case unless some means of amplitude control is provided."
"The simple theory of the symmetrical plane triode has been applied to the calculation of the change in plate current as a function of motion of the grid and cathode. For perfect symmetry, the first-order approximation gives zero change in current. The second-order expressions are evaluated and show that an output signal may be expected having twice the vibration frequency. A description is given of equipment for vibrating a tube for test, measuring the amplitude of vibration, detecting very small resonances of tube parts, and studying the wave form of the electrical output. Experimental studies have been made on tubes to determine the mechanical origin of several different forms of electrical output. In some cases, individual tubes which exhibited particular forms of microphonism have been opened up, the structure altered, and the tube operated under vibration in an evacuated bell jar. In this way, the mechanical origin of particular forms of microphonism were determined quite definitely. A few general comments are given regarding tests for microphonism, and the design of tubes."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Data obtained from the Rutherford scattering experiment are used to present a simple picture of the structure of the atom. This picture is shown to be in agreement with the experimental findings on the electrical nature of matter. On the assumption that the particles which make up the nucleus (neucleons) are neutrons and protons, a \"building-up\" of the various atoms is explained and a system of nuclear nomenclature is developed. The model of an atom as a central nucleus of neutrons and protons surrounded by outer shells of electrons is found to fit in with the results of many physical and chemical experiments. In particular, the results of experimental spectroscopy yield quantitative agreement with certain calculations made on this atomic model. Bohr's theory of the hydrogen atom is developed in simple terms and the equation for energy level in the H-atom is derived. Excitation and ionization of atoms are described in terms of the Bohr model of the atom."
"The energy spectrum of frequency-modulation noise is computed for different ratios of signal to noise. Numerical values are given for some simple filter amplitude characteristics. The theory is based on the Fourier concept of noise and treated in three steps: no signal, signal without modulation, and modulated signal. The result is given in the form of a series, and it is shown that this development is convergent. The suppression of the modulation by noise is also discussed."
"Past investigations in the field of ionospheric-meteorological correlation are reviewed, with special emphasis on ionospheric characteristics correlating with barometric pressure. An attempt to verify past correlations involving pressure has been made with negative results. However, a new correlation is presented between the time-of-occurrence of the maximum F2critical frequency during a single day and the average daily barometric pressure."
"A new audio oscillator of the phase-shift type is discussed. The oscillator can cover continuously the entire audio-frequency range, and tuning is achieved by varying but one element of the feedback network. The theory of the new principle and a description of the oscillator are given."
"A systematized set of radiation patterns of rectangular electromagnetic horn antennas have been measured and are shown as a function of electric and magnetic plane flare angles and radial length of the horn. A total of two hundred and fifty patterns are included for representative flare angles from zero to 50°, and radial lengths from zero to fifty wavelengths. This set of patterns reveals many characteristic properties which may serve as a guide in the design of electromagnetic horn antennas."
"An infinite plate of dielectric material is taken as the prototype of nonmetallic waveguides. The Green's function is found for the case in which the electric field is parallel to the surfaces of the plate. The solution is set up as a Fourier integral, which is then replaced by a complex contour integral. There are but a finite number of real poles, the residues at which correspond to the propagating modes in the metallic guide. An integral around a branch cut gives a wave radiating into space, which is the analog of the attenuated modes of the metallic guide. The modal field distributions are discussed for the plate and for circular rods. The surface fields are not small, but they are attenuated transversely at rates of 28 db per radius and higher; a system using a dielectric guide would be at least fairly well shielded. The nonmetallic guide should be useful wherever a low-cost flexible conductor is needed and imperfect shielding can be tolerated."
"Measurements were made of the emission of oxide-coated cathodes on six chemically different metal wires over a period of 500 hours. An empirical emission equation was employed which was found to be as accurate as the conventional Dushman equation and to be simpler to use. It was found that the logarithm of the emission constant A′ varied as the sum of the apparent work function times a constant, and the constant B."
"Inclusion of the hydrostatic pressure term, with constant temperature, in the electron force equation of a diode is shown to give a way by which the effect of Boltzman's relation for a retarding field disappears as the field becomes accelerating. Thus, one equation holds from the cathode surface through the potential minimum to the anode. As a result, one may deduce the usual temperature-limited emission formula for maximum current, the space-charge-limited characteristic, and the transition region from one to the other. Some remarks on this, from the standpoint of transport theory, are included."
"Extensive manufacture and use of quartz-crystal units for radio communication, instrumentation, control, and detection purposes was responsible for new investigations to improve all phases of piezoelectric units and devices. A small part of the total work included development of circuit arrangements and instruments for accurately measuring the electrical constants of crystal units. This paper describes precision methods of high-frequency radio measurements as used successfully on quartz-crystal units and applicable to other types of units having Q's and impedance ranges up to several million or higher."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Telephone service was made available experimentally in 1947 to passengers aboard certain railroad trains operating between New York, N.Y., and Washington, D.C. Communication between these trains and the telephone network is effected through radio stations of the urban mobile telephone services of the Bell System. This paper describes component parts of the train telephone system, results of radio coverage tests on the routes involved, and devices employed to control two-way transmission. Special features of the installations which differ from previous mobile installations and some results of the experimental operation are pointed out."
"The requirements of television antenna and rf distribution systems for apartment houses are discussed. Amplifiers and distribution networks are described which supply boosted signals of all available stations on their original carriers to all receivers in an apartment house."
"A class-B modulator has been devised to assure a broad pass band having uniform gain with quite low distortion and noise level. Unique features include (1) a cathode follower, (2) no modulation transformer, and (3) broad-band feedback."
"A frequency-modulated exciter which incorporates a quartz-crystal discriminator for center-frequency stabilization of the modulated oscillator is described. The unit was designed as the exciter for a frequency-modulated broadcast transmitter. The frequency-stabilizing circuits are the unique portion and are described in detail. Circuit simplicity is attained by operating the discriminator at the modulated-oscillator frequency, thus eliminating heterodyning and mixing circuits. A special bridge circuit, operating on the modulator bias, maintains the average frequency at the midpoint of the discriminator. Performance and stability of a completed unit are briefly discussed."
"The cathode-coupled amplifier circuit is used as a clipper with some advantages over the conventional pentode and diode types. An analytical solution is obtained for proper operating conditions to give the desired size of output pulse, allowable range of input voltages, bias values for symmetrical clipping, and the like. Regenerative feedback is shown to give considerable improvement in the clipping action, and design methods for obtaining optimum clipper performance are outlined."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"The addition of static capacitors for power factor correction on the 4-kv distribution circuits of the Chicago, Ill., system has resulted in the operation of generators at power factors close to unity during light load periods. This introduces a problem of generator stability at low levels of excitation. It is the purpose of this paper to present the results of a study on the behavior of the generators on the Chicago system during these light load periods, and to show to what extent capacitors may be added to the system without resorting to capacitor switching. The paper shows that loss of generator field presents the most serious problem in the operation of generators during such light load periods. The results of this analytical study indicate that the generators on the Chicago system may be operated safely at high power factors."
"This interim report was prepared by the Project Committee on Relay Bibliography of the AIEE Relay Committee in order to make immediately available this information to the entire industry. Previous to the last published bibliography on this subject, this material had been available only to the membership of the relay committee annually and to the industry at 10-year intervals. However, it was believed by the committee that the publication of such data should be made at three-year intervals in order to place the information in the hands of all interested parties before such information should become obsolete. The \"Bibliography of Relay Literature, 1927-1939,\" and the \"Bibliography of Relay Literature, 1940-1943,\" were published in pamphlet fonn and also in AIEE TRANSACTIONS, volume 60, 1941, pages 1435-47, and volume 63, 1944, October section, pages 705-09, respectively. The articles listed in this bibliography (1944 to 1946) include all those appearing in the AIEE Transactions on Electrical Engineering as well as most of the chief technical publications of the world from January 1944 through December 1946. The listing of these articles is subdivided into several sections, depending upon the general substance of the article."
"This paper has set forth the principles which pertain to the elimination of frequency instability and harmonic radiation from diathermy equipment, illustrating the application of the principles with an actual model. In this way it is hoped that emphasis will have been placed on the manner of obtaining the results as well as on the principles. The problem of high frequency harmonics requires facility with high frequency techniques."
"An electronic amplifier for d-c measurements is described in which the zero is stabilized by the use of a contact type of modulator vibrating at 60 cycles per second. The gain is stabilized, by over-all d-c feedback, to a small fraction of one per cent. Circuits and precautions are described which have been used to adapt this type of amplifier to the measurement of contact potential drop, thermocouple electromotive force for infrared gas analysis, electromotive force of glass electrodes for pH determination, and current from capacitors resulting from leakage and absorbed charge. The relation between noise from thermal agitation and the system response is discussed."
"In the rolling mill screw-down pre-positioning control system discussed in this paper, the use of electronic-balance detectors and anticipators permits higher screw-down motor speeds without loss of accuracy in the final positioning of the rolls. The electronic-balance detectors replace polarized contact-making ammeters while balance anticipators permit the introduction of slow-down motor circuits for accurate stopping. This latter feature could not be provided so readily by the earlier control method. A new system of schedule panels on which one or more complete rolling schedules may be preset is a definite and important improvement over the earlier design. In the new panels, it is necessary to locate only two plugs for each pass per schedule while in the older method employing cords, it was necessary to locate both ends of two cords, making four connections per pass per schedule. Freedom from the complicated network of cords makes the set-up procedure more rapid and certain."
"The induction machine of this frequency changer has demonstrated its ability to start and carry rotating machine induction loads requiring 140 per cent of the kilovolt-amperes of the induction machine to start them without benefit of capacitive excitation. A-c amplidynes are used for automatic voltage regulation of the induction machine. D-c amplidynes are used for regulating the load through the frequency changer. So far as the authors are aware, this is the first commercial installation of this type to incorporate these features."
"The effect of the magnetic field distribution upon the iron losses of transformers is represented in practical formulas for the examples of core- and shell-type single-phase punching cores, and of the 3phase core-type core. This computation furnishes as much as 13.5 per cent lower core losses, as compared with previous conventional methods. In another application, it is shown that a widening of the yokes permits only a relatively small reduction in losses."
"The basis is presented for a more accurate interpretation of the results of physical type tests to measure the thermal aging of insulation together with a more accurate method of applying the results of such tests to predicting insulation deterioration in practice. Since the observed physical changes during thermal aging are the result of internal chemical changes in organic material, it is shown that the theory of chemical reaction rates can be applied to analyze experimental data on aging. The approximate 7 to 10 rule for the temperature coefficient of deterioration rate is replaced by a more accurate theoretical expression. Various examples of insulation life tests are analyzed using the graphical methods outlined in the paper. The chemical rate theory interpretation of thermal aging offers a more satisfactory method for extrapolating the results of limited aging tests of insulating materials so they can be applied to predicting amounts of thermal aging in high temperature cycles."
"A limited number of inorganic insulations has been available to the designer, as compared with the variety of organic materials on the market today. The development of terratex, a thin, totally inorganic paper-like sheet, fills a gap in the inorganic insulation field. Laboratory tests and four years of service experience indicate that its excellent high-temperature characteristics and other properties may be utilized wherever it is advantageous to use inorganic insulation."
"The differential equations of two idealized models of the arc column proposed by previous writers have been combined into a composite model whose behavior approximates that of actual a-c power arcs in circuit breakers and fuses near a critical current zero for arc extinction. An extensive series of curves are presented showing, for this model, the variation with time just before and after current zero of arc resistance, arc current, arc power, and dielectric strength of the arc space under certain simplifying assumptions for three different forms of circuit recovery voltage. These quantities are expressed in terms of prior arc current and voltage and of a characteristic ``time constant'' which depends upon the physical conditions imposed upon the arc. The model curves are compared with oscillographic measurements. The usefulness of such models in aiding the understanding of arc behavior in circuit interrupters and in correlating and making extrapolations from interrupting data is pointed out."
"1. On 250-volt and 125-volt a-c circuits, arcing faults are unstable and will extinguish themselves within two cycles or less even when initiated by four number 8 copper wires on a bus with 4-inch spacing. On buses with less than 4-inch spacing, it would be expected that the arc would have more of a tendency to stabilize itself. 2. About half of the line-to-line arcing faults on the 500-volt circuit were unstable and extinguished themselves. 3. The magnitudes of the first-half-cycle values of current are dependent upon the means of initiating the fault. In using a relatively small wire for the initiating means, the current as compared to the bolted-fault current decreases as the circuit current level is increased. On the 500-volt circuits, the results of the copper bar and steel bar tests indicate that a factor of 0.9 might be applied to the bolted symmetrical current for systems whose bolted-fault currents are in excess of 40,000 amperes and a factor of 1.0 for systems whose bolted-fault currents are less than 40,000 amperes. On 250-volt circuits, the factor appears to be smaller. 4. On 500-volt circuits, the sustained currents may be less than 0.8 of the bolted symmetrical currents."
"Equivalent circuits are developed for the various types of salient-pole synchronous and asymmetrical induction machines, expressed along the physical direct and quadrature axes (cross-field theory). The torques again are found by a direct measurement of power. The networks of all types of machines are found as special cases of that of the ``primitive'' machine. All equivalent circuits along the physical axes are derivable from those along the hypothetical symmetrical component axes (revolving-field theory) by a real transformation. Although the latter types of networks have already been published previously, they are reproduced here for comparison with the new networks and for a unified tensorial treatment of rotating machines and their equivalent circuits."
"This paper attempts a detailed study of the characteristics of a three phase commutator armature with six adjustable brushes per pole pair. As the brushes are being shifted, the effective number of turns per phase, phase resistance, phase leakage reactance and flux shape, change considerably. These values are being derived as a function of the brush spacing angle and, with the help of the Goerges diagram, the resulting flux shapes are being determined. Furthermore, the change of leakage reactance with varying armature speed is being discussed. The principles of the derivations are general and may be applied to any similar problems."
"Filamentary thermionic gas tubes, when operating with the anode and filament voltage inphase, exhibit a marked temperature gradient along the filament. When the magnitude of the anode and filament currents are of comparable value, the resulting nonuniformity in filament temperature may be sufficient to cause short tube life and unreliable operation. This condition is not corrected appreciably by any special arrangement of anode current return connection to the filament circuit. By operating the tube with the anode and filament voltages in quadrature,1 approximately double the value of current permissible under the inphase operating condition may be conducted before the same temperature difference results."
"Operating records indicate that rectifiers equipped with the latest improvements can be expected to perform as follows: 1. Arc-back rate of less than 1 or 2 arc-backs per rectifier per year. 2. Average ignitor life exceeding 5 years. 3. Service life on rectifier tank exceeding 5 years, without reconditioning."
"Railroad electrification is now being considered in several sections of the United States. Questions regarding choice of power supply, design and cost have prompted an analysis of these problems on a two-track railroad of moderate traffic density. The scope covers features from utility supply to locomotive pantograph, including conversion apparatus, substations, and transmission, Locomotives are not included. A 330-mile section of railroad is used with trackage and traffic density closely resembling an acutal case. A-c and d-c power systems are analyzed and compared. The a-c system is single-phase 25-cycle, with 24-kv trolley and 72-kv feeder-to-trolley voltages. Rotating frequency changer sets are used for conversion, supplying loads resulting from motive power equipped with single-phase motors, with or without power-factor corrective equipment, or with motor generators. The cost of conversion apparatus is considered separately, as it might be financed either by the railroad or utility. The d-c system uses 6-kv trolley voltage, with supplementary feeders. Metal-tank mercury-arc rectifiers are provided for conversion. Wood poles support all electrical circuits in both cases. Traffic densities are considered for 1940 and 1944 levels, the latter 57 per cent greater than the former. Cost estimates are based on 1939 price levels. The results show: 1. Traffic density is one of the controlling factors of cost of railroad electrification, but reasonable cost per annual thousand gross ton-miles can be obtained for a railroad handling moderate traffic. 2."
"The 75-mile single-phase 11-kv electrification of the Cascade Mountain division of the Great Northern is described briefly and the comparative performance of steam and electric locomotives is given, indicating the ability of the electric locomotive to handle 6 times the number of ton miles per hour formerly handled by steam locomotives. Mixed operation, using steam, Diesel-electric, and electric locomotives in the same trains, during the war, is described, and comparative costs of operation and maintenance for each type of motive power are given. The superior advantages of the motor-generator type of electric locomotive are set forth. Further extensions of this electrification are shown to depend on cheaper electric power costs, without restrictive demand rates. The future of electrification, in general, is shown to be closely associated with standardization of system by manufacturers, and the possible coordination of motor-generator type locomotive apparatus and equipment with that of other generator type motive power."
"As the ultimate generating capacity of Grand Coulee Dam is approached, designers of high voltage circuit-interrupting devices are challenged to produce circuit breakers capable of interrupting faults far in excess of the present maximum standard rating of 3,500,000 kva. An oil circuit breaker designed for extra-heavy are rupturing duty is described in this paper. Results of varification tests made in the laboratory are compared with those obtained on subsequent field tests at Grand Coulee Dam. The close correlation of circuit breaker performance in the field and laboratory confirms the accuracy of the laboratory method of testing. With successful correlation up to 7,500,000 kva and laboratory tests simulating still higher rupturing duty, there is now a sound basis for design of oil circuit breakers with a rated interrupting capacity up to 10,000,000 kva."
"If terminals, suburban lines, and open-pit mining developments are excepted, the electrification of heavy haulage on the North American continent has progressed rather slowly for the past 15 years. In the meantime, and particularly postwar, European countries definitely have announced their decision to make extensive additions to their electrified railroads. Similar decisions have issued from other countries. No doubt, there is a satisfactory reason for this slowing down of electrification in North America. Based on the thorough and efficient operating methods followed by the railroads of North America, it may be concluded that economics may play some part in this ``slowdown.'' Possibly the first cost of electrification is too high; if so, how can this first cost be reduced, or be made comparable to installations involving other motive power? It cannot be said that the high first cost of electrification is entirely due to the cost of the overhead distribution system. But, it can be said that the overhead system, as a part of the electrification plant, may contribute to high costs. It is not conceded that unfavorable first costs of electrification are the deciding factor in favor of some other mode of transportation, but a reduction in the first cost of electrification certainly will place the electric locomotive in a more favorable place. This paper describes some of the new overhead equipment, also system and structure designs, that have been developed in very recent years."
"The requirements of the United States Bureau of Reclamation for 230-kv circuit breakers at Grand Coulee Dam which would far exceed present-day standard circuit-breaker ratings, required field tests to check the performance of standard circuit breakers in order to predict the required designs for higher ratings. Standard 3,500 megavlt-amperes (mva) low oil content impulse- and tank-type oil circuit breakers were tested on the meximum capacity available of over 7,000 mva. Usually satisfactory performance was observed under all test conditions indicating that standard circuit breakers of these types incorporatting modern methods of arc interruption, will require but little change to adapt them to the Grand Coulee Dam requirements for ratings of 10,000 mva."
"This new frequency-type telemetering system combines continuous measurement and fast response with high accuracy and stability of calibration. It uses as a translating means an alternating electric signal whose frequency is directly proportional to the measured quantity. This signal originating in a contactless transmitter can be used to modulate or key carrier-current channels of conventional fixed frequency types. It is the frequency of this signal rather than its magnitude which is detected by the receiver and converted without moving parts into a proportional direct current sufficient to operate a conventional indicating or recording instrument. This system in its basic form was developed to telemeter a-c watts, vars, volts, and amperes. Auxiliary equipment is available to permit telemetering practically any other electrical or nonelectrical quantity."
"Tests of a representative sample of this circuit breaker were made on the system of the Bonneville Power Administration in order to provide an opportunity for American manufacturers and operating engineers to study the operation of this circuit breaker in interrupting faults and line charging currents. A single pair of interrupting contacts in open air, ease of contacts visual inspection, maintenance and replacement attracted much attention and favorable comment, particularly from operating engineers. The circuit breaker successfully interrupted fault currents in about six cycles (average) as compared with three cycles of fast oil circuit breakers of American manufacture. Interruption of line charging current, although successful, was accompanied by many restrikes. It is hoped that these tests and the analysis of the test data will facilitate development of an American circuit breaker which will retain the favored features of the European prototype but will be faster in interrupting fault currents and practically free from restrikes in interrupting line charging currents."
"The continued increase in remote indication of electrical and nonelectrical quantities in this country and abroad has taxed the ingenuity of the engineer to provide new systems and auxiliary devices to meet their needs. One of the better known devices used for remote indication of electrical and nonelectrical quantities is the torque balance telemeter. The successful use of this telemeter has suggested the development of two pieces of auxiliary telemetering equipment which greatly broadens the field of application for this telemeter as well as serving to augment the general field of telemetering. These new devices, known as the load injector and the converter, working in conjunction with the torque balance telemeter provide the additional functions of signaling, and the totalizing and integrating of a telemetered quantity."
"Solutions of some of the problems arising in the development of a broad-band signal generator are presented. Three internal cavity, reflex klystrons are used to cover the frequency range. Attenuator and wavemeter designs in coaxial radio-frequency cable are discussed as well as attenuator calibration and accuracy of output power as read from a panel control. The method of pulsing the klystrons is described with emphasis on the problems involved in obtaining very short rise and decay times."
"A series of electric locomotives of varying capacities can be constructed from standardized components suitable for switcher, freight and passenger services. Superior operating characteristics are attained while reducing first and operating costs as compared with existing motive power."
"Duquesne Light Company placed in service on October 26, 1947, the largest kilovolt-ampere and highest voltage-series capacitor in the world, to improve voltage regulation and alleviate voltage flicker at a large steel mill and on the line serving it. The capacitor has a nominal rating of 10,000-kva and was installed on a 66-kv line. It was built by the Westinghouse Electric Corporation. This paper presents the calculated results of system studies made prior to the authorization of the series capacitor and the reasons for selecting the series capacitor. In addition, the results of staged tests showing the starting of a large induction motor and the energizing of the power transformers at the load with the capacitor in service are included. The improvement in utilization voltage is also shown."
"This paper describes the design and layout problems encountered in the construction of a substation for the largest series capacitor installation in operation to date. Companion papers1,2 cover the application and equipment design of the series capacitor."
"This paper describes a method for indicating to the locomotive engineman the condition of the circuits controlling the electropneumatic brakes which are now in widespread use on high-speed passenger trains. The apparatus consists of a Wheatstone bridge so arranged as to insure the operation of the bridge itself as well as to indicate the condition of the electropneumatic brake circuits. Calibrated dials indicate the number of vehicles in the train. This equipment is proving to be a useful tool in making terminal tests, and assist in determining the location of any change of resistance of the train line wire circuits which may occur. It also provides a convenient means for indicating to the engineman while en route, any change which may occur in the train line circuits. All parts of the equipment are designed to provide the ruggedness essential for long life on locomotives."
"To correct for voltage regulation and light flicker on the 66-kv line supplying arc furnace and steel plant load, a series capacitor of 500 amperes continuous rating and 13.5 ohms was installed. This series capacitor was built with three groups of standard 2,400-volt 15-kva capacitor units connected in series per phase with each group being protected by its own by-pass gap and automatic switch. This is the largest and the highest voltage series capacitor so far installed."
"This is an analysis of the relations between the mechanical parameters and the electrical parameters as measured at the terminals, of a permanent-magnet movable-coil instrument, or other similar electromechanical device, the movable coil of which is free to oscillate, and the circuit of which may consist of any network of resistors which in general may be unknown. It is shown further that by measuring the apparent resistance, inductance and capacitance at the terminals by a special bridge and oscillator and the current per unit deflection, that the values of the undamped period, specific damping coefficient, moment of inertia, and spring stiffness can be computed regardless of the character of the instrument circuit resistor network, or whether it be known or unknown."
"Through the use of improved materials, manufacturing techniques, and designs, a series of exchange-area loading coils has been provided which is equivalent electrically to the superseded types but requires one-third less copper and has considerably smaller over-all dimensions. Similarly, 3-coil toll cable loading units have been provided with a saving of one-half in both copper and core material, with a small sacrifice in electrical behavior as compared with superseded types. The reduced size of the new coils and units, together with improved assembly arrangements, made possible a 65 per cent saving in the volume and weight of the cases housing them."
"The instrument mechanism is expressed in terms of an equivalent electric network, and the apparent electrical parameters determined by a-c bridge methods. The extracted parameters are: the apparent series resistance, the apparent damping resistance, the undamped period, and the periodicity at which the phase angle of reactance to the shunt resistance is -45 degrees. From these the periods and damping coefficients can be calculated. By including the d-c deflection sensitivity of the instrument the moment of inertia and the restoring torque gradient also can be calculated."
"The first major high-voltage pipe-type installation in this country to be installed without any stop joints and the first in which the cable was shipped without the conventional temporary lead sheath was placed in service in June 1947, by New Orleans Public Service, Incorporated. This installation incorporates a number of novel design features of unusual interest. The paper describes these features and reports the results of tests and studies carried out in connection with this installation."
"Paper or plastic tapes with a magnetic coating, as well as solid metal ribbons, have a wide field of use in magnetic recording. Magnetic properties, frequency response, signal-to-nioise ratio, output level, sensitivity, and erasability of a number of different tapes are compared. A newly developed coated material has a balance of these properties which makes it especially suitable for high quality magnetic recording."
"A new erase head structure has been devised for use in magnetic recording. This new head provides, at reasonable power inputs, much more intense erasing fields than were possible previously and thus makes the use of magnetically harder media feasible. This head is excited by a single conductor in the erasing gap. The gap conductor is energized by a single turn secondary winding of a transformer. Greater efficiency is achieved through the resulting reduction in head flux for a given magnetomotive force applied to the medium. Also, improved thermal characteristics increase the power handling ability of this head."
"The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate some graphical methods for finding the transient response of a control system. A simple position follow-up system is considered for convenience although the method is applicable in the same form for higher order systems or those in which only empirical frequency data is known. The basic procedure is to find the roots of the differential equation which correspond to the exponential transient terms which dominate the response. Doctor Profos1 of Switzerland points out that the plot of the function which describes the system from error to output is a function of a complex variable of which frequency is the imaginary part and damping is the real part. The Nyquist plot is thus one line of a conformal map with the root of the equation being the value of the variable which makes the function equal to -1. Any line of plot can be calculated for systems with known functions with essentially the same ease as the Nyquist plot by use of some graphical tricks. The amplitude of any transient term is determined from the plot once the root is known by use of a theorem of operational calculus. The development possibilities of the subject seem to be very great as suggested by several topics not yet investigated."
"Ethylene diamine tartrate (EDT) crystal filters were developed to replace the earlier quartz type channel filters in the broad band carrier telephone systems, because of the threatened scarcity of quartz. These new filters give performance comparable to that of the earlier design. The growth of the EDT crystals from seeds and their fabrication into crystal units for use in filters are covered in companion papers on ``Design and Performance of Ethylene Diamine Tartrate Crystal Units''6 and ``Growing Crystals of Ethylene Diamine Tartrate.''7"
"The carrier system described was developed by the Western Union Telegraph Company for use with microwave radio relay circuits. Thirty-two voice-band communication channels, each 3,000 cycles wide, are derived in the frequency range 4 to 147 kc. Tandem stages of group modulators maintain a high degree of spectrum efficiency and eliminate the necessity for crystal filters. A crystal-controlled harmonic carrier supply insures the frequency stability required by narrow-band frequency-modulation telegraph circuits."
"This paper describes the filters developed for use in subdividing a frequency band of approximately 150 kc into 32 voice bands, each 3,000 cycles wide. A system of modulation in which each successive stage carries twice the number of voice bands found in the preceding stage reduces to six the total number of different frequency bands requiring separation by means of filters. Economy in cost and mounting space is attained through use of filter types which minimize the number of inductive elements required. Highly stable powdered iron cores are used in all inductive elements."
"The proper operation of ignitrons and other mercury-pool cathode tubes of conventional design may be impeded where these tubes are subjected to vibration, tipping, or rapid acceleration. These factors would, in general, be present in installations in electric locomotives, ships, or military tanks. In some cases arc-backs or of the mercury. Many of the uses of the mercury-pool cathode tubes are predicated on the copious electron emission of mercury. It has been the aim of the research described in this paper to obtain a cathode which retains the tremendous emission capabilities of mercury and yet is mechanically rigid so that jarring or tilting of the tube does not affect the operation of the tube."
"The general solution method of power network analysis grew from the systematic investigation of the effects of changes in a power system being analyzed by mathematical methods. The investigation led to an improved method of computing load-flow studies by which successive approximations converging upon precise answers could be carried through without the solving of simultaneous equations, a method so flexible that changes in loads, ratios, phase shifts, or even the circuit offer no difficulties. The general solution, by taking advantage of a previously computed solution when computing a new solution, is particularly adapted to the computation of a family of solutions for a particular network. Investigation of the effects of changes indicated that the effect of a change in loading, transformer ratio, or phase shift upon any particular network answer could be closely approximated by multiplying the change by a coefficient. Similarly, the effect of a change in value of a circuit element, or the effect of a new circuit element added, upon any particular network answer could be approximated by multiplying a constant by a coefficient. This paper is concerned with the computation of the complete set of coefficients describing the effects of any loading, transformer ratio, phase shift, or circuit change upon any flow, voltage, or phase angle. The complete set of coefficients is termed in this paper the ``general solution'' to the network."
"Applying Kirchoff's circuit laws to a conventional four-arm rectifier bridge, an expression is derived for efficiency in terms of R (effective reverse resistance of one arm), F (effective forward resistance of one arm), and L (ohmic load resistance). Knowing that R and F can be kept constant by separate adjustments of input voltage and temperature of the cells enables us to maximize efficiency, E, with respect to L. The optimum value of L turns out to be √RF, the geometrical mean of forward and reverse resistances. This value of L yields Emax = [(q - 1)/(q + 1)]2, where q = √R/F. Further analysis shows that √R/F = VR/VF for optimum L, where VR and VF are corresponding values of reverse and forward voltage drops, so that Emax is expressible in terms of VR and VF alone. Three families of curves are given to illustrate manipulation of the simple empirical data required, resulting in a final plot of Emax versus temperature for various current densities in the cells. An important feature of the process depends on the interesting analytical result that for maximum efficiency the reverse and forward losses are equal, making it possible to correlate values of VR and VF. Because the empirical data involved are strictly applicable only when R and F are not appreciably affected by previous values of VF and VR respectively, a modified technique is suggested in which data are observed only when optimum L is in the circuit."
"An instrument is described which uses radar techniques to make a survey of terrain. Distances are determined by measuring the transit time of pulses of light traveling between the instrument and a retrodirective reflector placed at the point whose relative position is to be found. Angles are measured by adjusting the position of the optical transmitter to obtain a maximum pip on a cathode-ray tube."
"The d-c output voltage of a typical power rectifier has more ripple than the output of a d-c generator. The ripple increases as the number of rectifier phases is decreased. It also increases as the rectifier voltage is reduced by phase retard. The voltage ripple affects the performance of d-c motors in the following respects: 1. Heating. 2. Commutation. 3. Speed regulation, particularly when current is discontinuous. D-c motors constitute the major part of the load of general purpose power rectifiers. It is a matter of experience that d-c motors in the fractional horsepower and small integral horsepower ranges must be derated when they are operated over a wide speed range from rectifiers with voltage control. The factors which result in derating of these motors are present to a very limited extent in general purpose rectifiers, which usually have six or more phases and are seldom operated with more than 15 per cent phase control. Hence little consideration has been given to the derating of motors connected to such rectifiers. In recent times the extension of controlled rectifier drives to d-c motors in the range of 100 horsepower or more has raised the question of modifying the rating of these larger motors when operated from rectifiers with phase control."
"The performance of induction-type frequency converters is reviewed. A design method is given, based on the equivalent circuit. The current locus, with varying loads, is derived."
"Close co-operation with the Navy during the war in working out solutions for rapid improvement of pre-war standards of protection and control of low-voltage distribution circuits, gave the group that developed these circuit breakers an enviable background of experience to fit them for the program just discussed. The results of their efforts have been outlined and can be summarized by saying that industry is offered a new circuit breaker in which high inrush and momentary currents are easily handled, with an increased contact life. Accurate and proved timing elements have been provided giving a variety of desired time-current characteristics. A wider application on motor and other repetitive duty high inrush current circuits is assured by longer contact and mechanism life and accurate delayed tripping obtained with the fluid displacement timing elements. Dependable selective operation can be obtained without the additional expense of current transformers and relays. Contacts and coils which will stand the high momentary currents, while tripping is delayed with an accurate mechanical timing device, make possible dependable selective operation, so unquestionably proved on the Navy's major ships."
"The circuit breakers designed in 1913 for sectionalizing the 11/22 kv 3-wire trolley and feeder circuits on the New Haven Railroad electrification had become inadequate by 1936 because of limited interrupting capacity to clear line faults fast enough to insure system stability and reliability. Although these were never designed to handle the entire fault interrupting duty, space and weight limitations in the switching stations and supporting structures ruled out their replacement with modern circuit breakers of conventional design adequate for faster fault clearing. The application of modern interrupters to the original circuit breakers, together with the redesign of tanks, operating mechanism and supporting frames (with spring supports), produced a circuit breaker of approximately the same over-all dimensions and weight which by high-power laboratory tests proved to be adequate to interrupt the entire fault current (instantaneous rms symmetrical) as determined by a-c network calculator studies of the system. These studies were also the basis of application of instantaneous overcurrent relays for fault clearing by the line circuit breakers, of which there are over 500, making this system one of the largest installations with this type of relay protection. An analysis of the network calculator studies, the tests of the redesigned circuit breaker, and the operating results with their application are here reported."
"Data on dielectric strength, resistivity and power factor are presented for a high-tension porcelain, a zircon porcelain celain and an alumina porcelian. Additional data on mica and fused silica taken from the literature are included for comparison purposes. The temperature range covered in the experimental work extends from 25 to 1000 degrees centigrade. When the logarithms of the dielectric strength, resistivity or power factor are plotted against the reciprocal of the absolute temperature, two straight lines of different slopes result in each case. The intersection of these two lines define a transition temperature between the disruptive and thermal regions of electric breakdown. An interesting feature of this investigation is the discovery that the transition temperatures as determined by the dielectric strength coincide approximately with those determined by resistivity or power factor. The transition temperature gives some indication of the maximum temperature beyond which the material should not be used in practice. Considerable advantage of zircon and alumina porcelains over high tension porcelain for high temperature applications are indicated. The data are discussed in the light of existing conduction and electric breakdown theories."
"New standards* for the accuracy of feeder voltage regulator control devices will provide much needed performance specifications. A working knowledge of their provisions will be an important aid for distribution engineers."
"Simple and direct methods are presented for ascertaining the magnitude of errors which arise from the dynamic limitations of instrument movements, and which appear in records obtained with recording instruments. Charts are given from which the a-c steady-state response may be obtained directly from the undamped natural frequency (or period) and the relative damping. These two basic constants of a particular instrument may be measured readily by the simple test methods described. Proper damping is emphasized, and certain techniques are suggested by which the frequency response may be improved beyond that obtainable with optimum damping. A simplified analysis of servo-actuated recorders suitable for application work also is included. The methods and the use of the charts presented are illustrated by means of numerical examples."
"Standardization in Mexico extends back over a considerable number of years. In 1926 the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce prepared a National Electrical Code which has been influential in guiding Mexican progress ever since. In recent years, standardization in a broad field has been an important activity of the Ministry of National Economy which in 1943 established the Direction General de Normas, (DGN). Under the initiation of DGN and with the co-operation of Mexican industry and professional organizations more than 100 standards have been adopted to guide Mexican federal government purchases, covering a wide range of commodities."
"Provides both a Subject and Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"At the outset it should be said that the utilization of electric power in the mining of copper ore as in many other branches of engineering requires only the application of sound electrical engineering knowledge, with particular attention applied to some of the special problems involved. It is well known to members of the Institute, and of the electrical engineering profession in general, that each industrial operation involves special features differing somewhat with the various processes, and so it is with the subject of copper mining. It becomes necessary, in order to illustrate specific principles, to restrict ourselves to the mining of one type of ore. It is our belief that many of these special problems arise in processing sulphide ore and the following outlines this interesting process together with descriptions of equipment and discussion of some of the problems involved."
"The final selection of welding equipment must have the following considerations: 1. The ability of the equipment to weld the specified material. 2. The cost of the equipment. 3. The voltage regulation imposed on the supply system by various types of machines. 4. The cost of reinforcement of the present supply system versus the cost of the machines and their correction devices. 5. The total of machines involved and their diversity factor. 6. The rate of production of one system versus another keeping in mind the limitations of each system and the number of machines involved. The a-c single-phase machine is generally found the most economical if the power supply is adequate, if not, a complete study must be made of the total installation and the power system before recommendation of any certain type of machine and its correction device versus power-system reinforcement."
"The rapid growth in power system size and interconnection over the past 30 years has greatly increased the problem of isolating faults. Standards of service have increased, making necessary greater reliability, and higher speed of operation. Innumerable relaying devices and schemes have been developed to meet the more exacting requirements. Some have been designed for special situations and others apply to basic situations which occur on many systems. It is these latter which it is hoped to discuss in this paper."
"Large welded plate steel spiral casings with plate thickness up to 2 5/16\" for operation under heads up to 435 feet have been manufactured in recent years. On some casings both the shop joints and the field joints were welded without stress relieving by annealing. After three to five years operation there has not been a single case of a weld failure. Other intricate turbine parts such as coverplates, discharge rings, speed rings, Francis runners and impulse wheel buckets have also been fabricated out of welded plate steel. There has been an increase in the use of stainless steel to resist pitting, erosion and corrosion, resulting in reduced maintenance costs. Newly designed self-lubricating bearings and carbon ring seal rings have simplified trouble and failure."
"A review is presented to show the historical development of measuring techniques and the need for practical equipment and methods to test rubber insulated cables. A new concept for equipment design is presented together with descriptions of recently developed commercial testing units suitable for such application. Design of new and novel terminal and electrode apparatus is also discussed. The use of this apparatus for investigation of rubber insulated cables is described, together with data obtained from laboratory and production tests."
"Experience with conductor joints and clamps in a large transmission system is outlined with particular reference to aluminum-aluminum and aluminum-copper connections. Three investigations are described in which outdoor exposure tests were made on live-line tap clamps, U-bolt clamp connections between ACSR (aluminum cable steel reinforced) and copper cable, and various types of sleeve joints in ACSR. During the exposure period of five to seven years, they were subjected to a load cycle, and periodically, measurements of electrical resistance were made. Following the exposure, specimens were examined for corrosion, and subjected to heat runs and short-circuit current tests. Live-line tap clamps of the screw type were found superior to spring type. Preferred material for clamp surfaces in contact with ACSR was aluminum. Coatings of zinc or tin on bronze clamps retarded corrosion of the ACSR strands. In U-bolt clamps serious corrosion of ACSR strands occurred where they contacted clamp parts of copper, even though the copper was coated with zinc or cadmium. Aluminum separators between copper cable and ACSR maintained the lowest resistance and caused least corrosion. The use of No-ox-id lessened corrosion especially where dissimilar metals were in contact. Hydraulically-compressed sleeve joints in ACSR were superior to those pressed with hand tools or twisted sleeve joints. The resistance of twisted sleeve joints was affected more than compression joints by variations in type of filler. The application of these and other observations to field practice is discussed."
"The \"Linascope,\" an electronic fault locator is described which uses an echo-ranging method for determining the location and nature of transmission line faults. This device has been used on open-wire telephone circuits for the location of various fault conditions, including open and short circuits, and high-resistance joints. Tests have been performed on high-voltage transmission lines which were removed from service for the purpose. Artificial faults applied at distances as great as 300 miles were detected. Open and short circuit faults are readily observed. Transposition points give slight echoes. The equipment has been used for inspecting live lines. In this application a high-frequency pulse is used which is coupled to the line by means of a high-voltage coupling capacitor. It is intended to use photographic recording gear with this instrument for the continuous inspection of live lines, in order to locate transient faults such as occur with lightning flashover of live-line insulators."
"By supporting the weight of a watt-hour meter disk magnetically, a bearing system is achieved free from high-unit pressures and, hence, free from the fundamental cause of wear. The magnetic arrangement employs two concentric magnets of ``cunico,'' the inner attached to the top of the shaft, the outer attached to the meter frame. In a meter having other design innovations co-ordinated with the magnetic suspension it promises to give virtually maintenance-free operation and long life."
"A protective network for sensitive relay contacts can be expected to extend reliable operation to several million cycles of operation. This result is to be achieved only if the sensitive contact circuit current is limited. Peak current transients on closure are shown to be the critical factor rather than the system voltage as popularly supposed. A 120 volt d-c sensitive contact circuit is considered safer and easier to protect than a comparable 24-volt circuit. It is shown that inductive loads can be successfully protected to values of almost two times that permissible for a resistive load with the type of protective system under consideration. Design procedure is given for a 2-circuit polarized relay protection system estimated to weigh less than eight ounces. It is suggested that available polarized relays when used with the subject protective system will provide power sensitivity, acciracy, and reliability in excess of that available from comparable electronic amplifier equipment."
"Bolted bus connections between bare aluminum and copper, with an electrotinned and flowed finish, will provide a low-resistance joint which will be reasonably stable even under extreme conditions of elevated temperature and corrosive attack. While the use of a compound, Penetrox ``A,'' will greatly improve and stabilize the contact conditions, the combination of aluminum and copper (electrotinned and flowed), will form a satisfactory electric connection even when made without the use of any compound."
"A knowledge of the performance of electrical instruments in the presence of magnetic fields is of importance to their intelligent use. The present paper describes: a study of this problem as applied to portable voltmeters, ammeters and wattmeters; and a brief survey of such magnetic fields as might be found around certain laboratory or small-plant equipment. Only portable direct -and 60-cycle a-c instruments were studied; panel-and switchboard-type instruments, presenting problems of their own were not included."
"The effects of temperature and operation time upon the production of noxious gases from silicone insulated electrical equipment under conditions of simulated submarine service are reviewed and some of the general problems of toxicity of burning insulation are discussed."
"The determination of the dynamic characteristics of arc discharges lasting for less than two microseconds, and recent developments in the application of hydrogen thyratrons to stroboscopic light sources are reported. It is pointed out that electrical circuit conditions prevalent in single flash or low repetition rate gaseous discharge lamp systems are considerably different from those existing in high repetition rate, multiple-flash circuits. Improvements in multiple-flash systems are described and their synchronization with high-speed cameras which use internal optical shutters is explained. Certain electrical features of a recent high-speed motion picture system utilizing synchronized flashlighting are reviewed. The need of further research and development on gaseous flashlamps is indicated."
"The increasing use of electric apparatus on aircraft has brought about the need for rather large sources of electric power for these planes while they are on the ground without engines running. The development of these ground power units from the original storage batteries through the makeshift postwar era to the present highly specialized units is traced in this paper. Units from 5 to 60 kw now are used for this purpose. These units consist of portable engine driven sets as well as induction motor driven units for use in the hangars. These units must all be equipped with special voltage controls and with complete radio interference suppression. The larger units are furnished with a great variety of portability, some being self-propelled. These units must be built in 12, 28, and 120 volt direct current as well as 120-volt 400-cycle alternating current."
"The effective resistance and inductance of 3-conductor shipboard power cables are measured at frequencies up to 800 cycles per second. The effects of conductor spacing, steel armor, and adjacent magnetic materials are described. The results indicate that the effective resistance is increased greatly as the conductor separation is reduced and that both the steel armor on the cables and other adjacent magnetic materials increase the effective resistance and inductance of the cable."
"A practical method is developed for obtaining analytical expressions to represent the steady-state electromagnetic characteristics of a d-c generator. The terminal voltage of a separately excited d-c generator can be computed as a function of steady-state conditions of excitation, load, and speed when certain physical and empirical constants of the machine are known. The analysis leads to equations which can be applied to the condition of self-excitation. Applications of this mathematical tool to several aircraft generators indicate an accuracy approximating that of physical measurement when hysteresis effects are neglected."
"The determination of reactance of large conductors in steel pipes or conduits has not been susceptible of practical computation but is required for estimating the voltage regulation of pipe cable systems. The present paper gives the results of tests made by Electrical Testing Laboratories (ETL) under the auspices of the Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association, on cables from 750,000 to 2,500,000 circular mils. These data have been supplemented by data from other sources, extending the lower limit of size to 4/10 American wire gauge. Empirical formulas have been developed to include all intermediate sizes and spacings. These formulas are based on the principle of deriving a self-GMD (geometric mean distance) from the a-c/d-c resistance ratio, and using an augmented axial spacing to allow for the magnetic effect of the pipe."
"A simplified procedure for the calculation of short-circuit currents was presented in earlier reports1,2 which has been found to be generally satisfactory. It is intended for general use by the industry as a simplified method of approximating the magnitude of fault currents; however, other more rigorous methods should be used where required."
"Representative types of fog insulators are classified according to design principles. The general conclusion is that each type has inherent limitations and that a completely satisfactory solution of the problem is still to be found. The mechanism of leakage surge flashover is examined. Continued research into methods of establishing a voltage gradient by resistance means is recommended. In such research, leakage surge counters promise to be a useful tool. A description is given of surge measuring equipment and of results obtained on the group of outdoor tests."
"This paper describes design engineering considerations involved in the application of 68 carrier current terminals at 25 locations used to establish the major portion of a 6,500-mile telemeter and automatic load-frequency control system. Both telephone-line and power-line carrier equipment is used with the latter predominating and consisting of four general types: keyed continuous wave; multitone amplitude modulation; multitone frequency modulation; and frequency shift. The quantity and direction of power flowing in 17 major transmission tie lines between the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) and surrounding power systems are telemetered an average distance of 172 miles to an operating office where tie-line loadings are totalized. Based on this net interchange quantity, deviation. from-schedule control signals, on a time-duration impulse basis representing kilowatts, are sent by a frequency-shift powerline carrier system to a total of 12 hydroelectric plants, to automatically regulate the governors of generators in response to load and frequency changes on the tie lines within the limits set by scheduled water releases which are co-ordinated with other objectives of the TVA. Two separate master control carrier channels are used with one serving seven and the other eight hydroelectric generating plants. To provide operating flexibility, three hydro plants are common to both carrier control channels."
"Feeder voltage regulators when properly applied will permit the optimum in economical design of power supply systems. The system designer must recognize definite relationships between the available range of regulators and the required voltage variations imposed by voltage drops in the subtransmission system, substation transformers, distribution feeders, and distribution system beyond the feedpoint. Since the effective range of regulators is reduced by inaccuracies in their control equipment, it appears justifiable to specify regulators with a total error of ≠ 1 per cent."
"Plans for the future development of the company call for a continuation of operation without regulators as a general practice. By co-ordinated development of the system as a whole, it will be possible to avoid the use of regulators, except as temporary crutches for a few weak spots. Installation of switched capacitors to control voltage on feeders or busses helps not only the local feeders or busses, but also the higher voltage systems supplying them. The cumulative effect of many individual installations is quite appreciable. As a contrast the feeder voltage regulator controls only the voltage beyond its location and adds its reactive burden to the system supplying it."
"Functioning in response to integrated deviation from a tuning fork-controlled standard frequency, and biased by deviation from scheduled tie-line load as telemetered to this location, this improved load-frequency control equipment provides continuous comparison of system frequency and tie-line load with their respective scheduled values. This continuous comparison, in conjunction with strict proportionality between deviation and correcting effect on the prime mover governor speed level adjustment, has proved in several years of service to be beneficial in minimizing governor and inlet valve movement and hence wear, as compared with the periodic intermittent correcting impulses used in earlier types of frequency controllers, even of the integrated-deviation type. The use of integrated frequency deviation as the quantity to which the controller responds inherently eliminates frequency deadband, but the tie-line load controller retainsi an adjustable deadband to render it oblivous of inevitable minor oscillations in tie line loading."
"Careful examination of contacts operated under conditions in which bridge erosion predominates shows that, despite a gross transfer of material from anode to cathode, the explosion of a molten bridge leaves a small crater in each contact. The diameters of such craters are believed to be those of the molten bridge just before rupture and they vary with current and with resistivity of the contact material in the expected manner. Although for some materials the bridge has equal diameters in the two contacts, in other cases it is asymmetric, that is, the diameters in the two contacts may differ considerably. Results of bridge erosion tests suggest that a transfer of material in the direction of the smaller end of the bridge is associated with such asymmetry. By pairing two materials which differ in natural bridge diameter, an artificial asymmetry is created. The transfer tendency of such a combination is called here asymmetry transfer and is shown to be self-limiting, because the act of transfer causes the gaining electrode to become similar to the losing electrode, thereby removing the driving force which causes the action. The concept of self-limiting transfer is developed, whereby it is shown that a condition of zero net transfer will result if contacts are operated under conditions so that, (a) asymmetry transfer is greater than the resultant of other transfer forces acting on the contacts, and (b) is opposite in direction to that resultant."
"This paper presents the results of an extensive investigation of the magnetic properties of solid stainless steel specimens. The analysis includes direct and alternating current magnetization curves, hysteresis loops, eddy current losses, and hysteresis losses. These tests were performed over a temperature range of -70 degrees to 600 degrees Fahrenheit. A discussion of the difficulties that might be encountered using stainless steel in magnetic circuits is inclued."
"Generators and tie lines experience damped natural oscillations in response to load changes or other disturbances. The magnitude and duration of such oscillations is considerable when contemplating system-wide load division by means of accurate time control. A computing servomechanism is considered herein for high-speed resolution of phase angle conditions, whether oscillating or not, into a steady load order proportional to the causative load change. Transfer function analysis is included as an essential step in determination of stability of the proposed control system. Such analysis offers a clear picture of the related performance of computer, governor, penstock, turbine, generator, and tie line."
"The performance of an induction motor on low-frequency voltages is readily predictable by means of the relations shown in Appendix I. We find from these relations that full torque is available from the motor providing the impressed frequency is at least equal to the slip frequency at which this torque would normally occur. The change in speed from full load to no load under the foregoing conditions is approximately the same as under normal operating conditions. Small high-speed machines can be effectively employed in generating the voltages needed for low-frequency operation. Although the generating system which we have described is best suited to supplying one frequency, a selection of frequencies and speeds can be obtained by simultaneously switching the relatively low current exciting circuits to provide the necessary change in circuit constants for different frequencies. Speed control in the manner described is particularly useful in applications requiring several induction motors to be started either individually or simultaneously without immediately accelerating to a high speed. This feature is required in printing press and other drives where a number of individual units are flexibly interconnected. The ease with which these units can be arranged in various combinations is greatly enhanced if they can be individually driven. Ordinary wound rotor induction motor control does not provide the required slow threading speeds and the use of individual gear shifting or other mechanical speed changers complicates the mechanical system. The use of a low-frequency power source is one solution to this type of problem."
"An analysis is presented of the theory of operation of mercury-arc equipment for converting 3-phase power of commercial system frequencies into single-phase power of a frequency of the order of one kc for use in induction heating and melting applications. Mathematical relationships are derived to show the effect of both low -and high-frequency communication and the frequency response of the grid phase angle control on the high-frequency output voltage and regulation. The self-tuning characteristics of the circuit are analyzed and a comparison is made between its response and that of a motor-generator set to changes in the load circuit inductance. Some practical considerations are discussed in connection with the installation and operation of mercury-arc frequency changing equipment of several hundred kilowatts rating for induction melting service."
"Conventional test methods are not sufficiently accurate for the measurement of heating transients in transformer windings when high or rapidly changing temperatures are involved. For resistance measurements made after shutdown, the accuracy is increased by improved methods of evaluation which may be based on a cooling curve or on a single test point. These calculations are somewhat laborious, and are limited in accuracy and usage. For this reason, suitable connections are described for testing winding temperatures with d-c bridges throughout any load cycle, with or without the application of a-c line voltage. This technique applies to the factory test of single or polyphase transformers and will measure the temperatures in two or more windings simultaneously. Test results of temperature transients obtained by this new method are included in curve form."
"This paper deals with some of the electrical and mechanical engineering problems encountered in developing large power air-blast circuit breakers. The characteristics and adaptability of the axial blast and cross-blast types of circuit breakers, and the reason for utilizing part of the latter principle for the design of large, indoor, medium voltage power circuit breakers will be discussed. A brief review of circuit interrupting phenomena, resistor application, air flow conditions, as well as general dimensions and outline, will be given. Finally, analysis and test data will be submitted indicating the possibility of further development of the high power cross-axial blast circuit breaker. That is a circuit breaker in which the contacts part at right angles to the blast, while the arc is immediately attenuated in the axial direction of the blast so that interruption occurs as in an axial-blast circuit breaker."
"Flashover of suspension insulators on steel tower lines, traceable to an accumulation of dirt followed by a deposit of moisture, has been the source of numerous outages of high-voltage transmission lines. The aim of the investigation described in this paper was to determine means of increasing the insulation level of existing lines under fog and dirt conditions. Methods were developed to simulate, in the laboratory, the conditions of dirt and fog which cause flashover of insulators in the field. Using these methods, a study was made of the phenomena of flashover of contaminated suspension insulators. The benefits to be derived from lengthened strings and the superiority of special fog-type units with increased leakage distance were determined. Other means of reducing the hazard from dirt accumulation are suggested."
"This paper presents a discussion of the problem of line insulator contamination by dust and the subsequent performance of the insulators in fog-laden atmospheres. A pioneer investigation of the subject carried out by the Department of Water and Power at Ryan High-Voltage Laboratory of Stanford University is described. Although the investigation was conducted in 1929, the information gained is still recognized as pertinent to the operation of transmission lines today. The quest for a trouble-free insulator for dust and fog areas still goes on while, in the meantime, periodic high-pressure water-stream washing of insulators, which followed the 1929 study of the problem and now is quite common practice, is an essential maintenance function to present operation."
"Large iron ore beneficiation plants introduce new problems of distribution and utilization of electric power in the iron mining industry. The selection of voltage levels for generation and main distribution, large and small motors, is based on a study of installed cost system reliability and efficiency. A modern load center system of distribution of a-c and d-c power for a large plant unit is demonstrated."
"Wood poles and crossarms of overhead electric lines may become ignited and damaged when the surface of the insulators and wooden parts become contaminated by industrial dust and upon the occurrence of certain atmospheric conditions. A study was made in the laboratory of all the factors which might contribute to the causes of pole fires. Conditions of dirt and fog and also burning of poles similar to occurrences in the field were reproduced. An explanation of the causes of pole fires was found and finally a simple and effective method of preventing the burning was developed."
"The determination of the proper conductor size to carry a given power load on cables installed in steel conduits or pipes has been subject to assumptions which were not too satisfactory. The Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association engaged the Electrical Testing Laboratories to conduct a research project to large conductors installed in steel pipes. This paper reports the results of the research and gives suggested values of ratio of a-c to d-c resistance for conductor sizes up to 2,500,000 circular mils. It is felt that more accurate and uniform calculations of current carrying capacity of cables in conduit in air, or in pipe in the ground can be attained by use of the a-c/d-c conductor resistance ratios set forth herein, than by assumptions used previously, and therefore the data reported herein will be of benefit to both the manufacturer and the power user."
"Provides both a Subject and Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"ONE of the extremely important corollaries of the theory of relativity promulgated by Einstein in 1905 is the principle that all forms of energy possess inertia, which most commonly is associated with matter. Thus a body that contains heat energy should have somewhat more mass than an otherwise identical but colder body. Similarly, a hollow box with perfectly reflecting internal walls has more mass if radiant energy is streaming back and forth within these walls than if the radiation is absent."
"The automatic electronic computer is the result of years of evolution in the field of calculating machines. At present the field is developing so rapidly that a machine may become obsolete between the time it is designed and the date of its completion. Applications for high-speed calculators are increasing rapidly as the characteristics of the machines become more well known."
"The observations of the author, recently returned from a trip abroad to attend the 1947 International Electrotechnical Meeting at Lucerne, Switzerland, indicate that engineering development is making fairly good progress both in England and on the continent of Europe. However, material shortages and the disturbed economic situation in general still present serious obstacles."
"A new mechanical demand register using a Geneva-type mechanism to accomplish both the timing of the demand interval and the resetting of the pointer-pusher has eliminated the energy storage spring with its design and maintenance problems."
"JUST 50 years ago, in the year 1897, Professor J. J. Thomson made the pronouncement, based on clear-cut experimental evidence, of the separate existence of elementary negatively charged particles — electrons. It was in the same year that Guglielmo Marconi succeeded in radio transmission across the Bristol Channel, a distance of nine miles. These events, in a tangible way, highlighted the foundations on which electronics was to be erected: namely, the elementary particles upon which it is based and the external forces or fields produced by these particles in motion. The phenomenal developments in electronics in the intervening years mark the emergence of the science and the associated nation-wide industry of electronics with all the privileges and responsibilities which go with maturity, privileges and responsibilities which have been acquired with growth and expansion"
"For several years data have been collected on electrostatic effects at low humidities. Sufficiently consistent results have been obtained to make the studies valuable to the cotton processing and textile industries."
"A critical analysis of voltage conventions and double subscript notations reveals that great confusion in electrical engineering literature is caused by the lack of uniformity in designating voltages and potential differences. A possible set of standards is offered for consideration."
"The closing discussion of the subcommittee on reactive power of the AIEE Standards committee upholds its original decision to recommend the change of the arbitrary sign of inductive reactive power from minus to plus. The majority of comments received on the original proposal have sustained the subcommittee's opinion."
"This report is supplemental to a previously published Engineers Joint Council report which presented and analyzed the results of a preliminary survey of employer practice regarding engineering graduates. The present report increases the scope of the survey by the inclusion of the results of various additional questionnaires."
"The Spectroradiometer is an instrument recently developed at the Lancaster plant of the RCA tube department of the Radio Corporation of America. It is used to measure such optical properties of luminescent materials as color, visual efficiency, peak energy, build-up and decay of fluorescence and phosphorescence under continuous and discontinuous excitation, flicker, stability, photoconductivity, and infrared quench and stimulation effects."
"This electrical essay is presented for the recreation of the reader. The author's question is: Is the reasoning true or false?"
"A survey of the development and practice in the power generation field indicates that, in spite of wartime limitations, changes and improvements have taken place in recent years."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE winter general meeting, Pittsburgh, Pa., January 26–30, 1948, and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Members may obtain copies by mail from the AIEE Order Department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstracts; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the meeting registration desk. Prices of copies to nonmembers will be twice those for members, less five cents for mailed copies."
"Plans are practically complete for the winter general meeting which is being held this year in Pittsburgh, Pa., January 26–30, 1948. Full advantage has been taken of this location as “mining and steel” will be the theme for the industry sessions. A broad program covering practically the entire range of Institute technical activities has been co-ordinated with inspection trips to various industries. A general session will be held on Wednesday morning with a feature talk to interest many members. At this session the Edison Medal will be presented. The smoker and dinner-dance will be held as usual. In addition a special womens' program will be arranged. Headquarters for the meeting will be in the Hotel William Penn. Room reservations should be made early."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"PAMPHLET reproductions of author's manuscripts of the numbered papers listed in the program may be obtained as noted in the following paragraphs."
"WITH deep sorrow, the board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers records the death, on September 1, 1947, of William Elgin Wickenden, 58th president of the Institute, and an outstanding leader in engineering education and related fields."
"A meeting of the District committee on Student activities for AIEE District 2 (Middle Eastern District) was held under the auspices of the AIEE Student Branch at the Case Institute of Technology, Cleveland, Ohio, on November 14 and 15, 1947. Members of this committee are the Student Branch chairmen and the counselor of each Student Branch in the District, plus the District vice-president and the District secretary. The meeting was open to all Student members and other AIEE members who wished to attend."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of November 20, 1947, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"As it has been proved that so much of the groundwork of technical committee projects is accomplished within the subcommittee, it is fitting that a delineation of the structure and personnel of these important subgroups follow the explanation of the main committee structures and organization (EE, Oct '47, pp 1006–11 and 1031–35)."
"With the completion of ten years of service to high school students contemplating entering the engineering profession, the New York Engineers' Committee on Student Guidance announces expansion of its services to cover greater territory in the metropolitan district. To carry on this additional work, the committee, which is composed of representatives of the American Society of Civil Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, the AIEE, and the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, operating under the auspices of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development, is seeking new recruits from the engineering profession. Present committee personnel stands at about 80, but it is necessary to increase this number if the expanded service is to be maintained successfully. The committee originally served high schools of New York City only."
"The Professional Engineers' Registration Act of the State of Washington was revised during the 1947 legislative session. This was the first change made in the engineers' registration act since the law first was passed in 1935."
"With “production for peace” as its keynote, the 68th annual meeting of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers was held in Atlantic City, N. J., December 1–5, 1947. The onward march of industry toward new and better products, more efficient methods, and greater economy of production, and the engineers' part in that progress, was the subject of many of the 80 technical sessions which featured some 240 authors and speakers. This 68th meeting of the ASME presented a marked contrast to the group of a few hundred engineers who constituted the membership nearly seven decades ago, when the society was formed. ASME membership now stands at more than 23,000."
"The first issue of Applied Mechanics Reviews, a new monthly engineering and scientific journal devoted to reviewing current world-wide literature in the field of applied mechanics, is scheduled to appear in January 1948. Cosponsors are the American Institute of Mechanical Engineers, the Engineering Foundation, the Illinois Institute of Technology, and other organizations. The business address is the Engineering Societies Building, 29 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Professor Glenn T. Seaborg of the University of California, Berkeley, Calif., co-discoverer of plutonium, man-made source of atomic energy, has been awarded the William H. Nichols Medal of the New York section of the American Chemical Society for 1948."
"The National Research Council again is offering a number of opportunities for advanced study and research in the natural sciences. Fellowships for the academic year 1948–49 are being announced under a series of programs financed from various sources, but administered under fellowship boards established by the NRC. These are in addition to fellowships in the medical sciences announced separately."
"Peru — New Radio Station. The Ministry of Public Education in Peru has inaugurated a radio station which will be operated by the ministry through the Director of Technical Education in the boys school, Colegio Industrial Estados Unidos. Regular evening broadcasts began on September 1. The station, known as OCX4C, operates on 6,000 kc with a power of 200 watts daily from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. (Foreign Commerce Weekly)."
"“The Cherokee Project.” The planning, design, construction, and initial operations of the Cherokee Dam and Reservoir (near Knoxville, Tenn.) are discussed in detail. The seventh book of a series of technical reports of the Tennessee Valley Authority, it may be procured from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. United States Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C, 1946, 411 pages, 138 illustrations, cloth-bound, 9¼ by 6 inches, $1.50."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers. Mercury Lamps in Industry. (Y-729) This folder tells a story of mercury lamps as a production tool. It states the facts about using mercury lamps for industrial lighting in medium and high-bay industrial interiors where frequently they are used because of their high light output. The booklet also contains physical and electrical specifications of the AH-9 (3,000-watt) and AH-1 (4,000-watt) mercury lamps. Copies of the booklet may be obtained from the General Electric Lamp Department sales district offices."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The demonstrated performance and reliability of industrial electronic controls have enabled them to compete with older schemes of regulation. Three typical successful applications of electronic equipment are discussed here."
"Radium, once most fabulous and costly substance on earth, is faced with technological unemployment. Artificial radioactive materials produced by nuclear scientists at lower cost can be “tailored” to meet the need at hand. This is the third in a series of articles developed by the AIEE nucleonics committee."
"Does patent consciousness interfere with co-operation between industrial and university research laboratories? The author takes the stand that our patent system, by protecting the inventor, opens the door to the free interchange of ideas which are so necessary to rapid scientific progress. This is one viewpoint on an important and controversial topic."
"Simplicity of equipment required and adaptability of the process to 8-millimeter as well as 16- and 35-millimeter film are among the advantages claimed for magnetic recording of sound on motion picture film. Experimentally converted conventional projectors that can be used as recorders also are described."
"LEAKAGE REACTANCE has been the subject of discussion in the technical literature from time to time since the adoption of alternating current for the generation and utilization of electric power. In the beginning it was customary for the designer to estimate the number of leakage lines per ampere inch of the embedded portion and end connections of the windings and multiply these by the respective lengths to obtain the reactance. Early writers treated this subject under the title of magnetic dispersion and took account of its effect through the use of a leakage coefficient. About the leakage coefficient R. E. Hellmund writes: The chief reason for determining this value is, however, the fact that it fixes directly the excellence of a motor in almost every respect and, therefore, the values obtained for this factor form a direct means for determining the relative merits of various designs. If properly designed a motor will always be better the smaller the leakage coefficient. The leakage coefficient no matter how it is defined is always the ratio between the effects of the leakage field and the main field."
"DEVELOPMENT of the electric power industry in China is a rather slow process. In 1936, the consumption of electric energy per capita was only about 4 kilowatt-hours. Industrial development of the country, as well as the living standard of its people, is largely dependent upon a cheap and abundant supply of electricity. Therefore, China is sparing no effort in building up its electric power industry at once."
"Although vibration problems are covered in detail by many textbooks, practical examples of field work serve to point out methods of approach for correcting unbalance."
"A SIMPLE METHOD for accurately measuring voltages present on high-voltage systems during both transient and steady-state conditions without modifying the conditions producing the voltage to be measured has been developed."
"A motion picture camera that can take more than five million pictures a second has been described before the Optical Society of America by Doctor B. O'Brien, director of the Rochester Institute of Optics at the University of Rochester, N. Y. Taking motion pictures at such speeds by conventional means is very difficult because of the mechanical and optical problems involved."
"Application of series capacitors to distribution circuits involves several factors that must be considered carefully if the installation is to operate properly. A careful analysis of the conditions under which the series capacitor is to operate must be made; maximum and momentary current and by-pass provisions for excess currents must be considered."
"The eniac is the only electronic large-scale general-purpose digital computing device now in operation. Its speed of operation compares favorably with other electric and mechanical computers. Developed under wartime pressure, it has been of value not only in producing results but in pointing the way toward improvements for future designs."
"An a-c potentiometer of the rectangular coordinate type has proved acceptable from both the standpoints of reliability and accuracy in circumstances where utility and ease of obtaining measurements rather than precision were the primary considerations. The potentiometer was constructed for general electrical measurements where indicating meters are unsuitable or objectionable."
"IN UNDERTAKING a general overhaul of a mercury arc rectifier at periodic intervals, the problem of interior cleaning of the tanks always has been a troublesome one. The tank in use usually has accumulated considerable contamination of loose material eroded from the elements of the rectifier. In addition to a dirty condition of the mercury pool, a quite hardened black slick scum may cover a large area of the tank walls. After removing all the interior parts, past practice has been either to sand-blast or wire-brush the tank walls and bottom in an effort to furnish a clean tank for the introduction of the new mercury needed for further operation."
"An important innovation in AIEE meetings is being inaugurated in 1948 by several of the national technical committees of the Institute. These are to be known as AIEE conferences."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The choice of the city of Mexico as the site for the 1948 AIEE summer general meeting, June 21–25, provides not only an opportunity to study at first hand the technical problems and developments of a colorful and storied country, but it offers also a perfect chance for a vacation with a foreign flavor in this famed “land of contrasts.” The city, which has a population of more than two million, is located on a plateau surrounded on all sides by the beautiful mountains bordering the Valley of Mexico, including the snow-capped peaks of Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl. Its location in this sheltered valley and its altitude of 7,481 feet above sea level are responsible for an ideal climate, which even in the summer is an invigorating and welcome escape from the heat generally associated with that season."
"A regular meeting of the AIEE board of directors was held at the Congress Hotel, Chicago, at 9:30 a.m., November 5, 1947, during the Midwest general meeting of the Institute."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of December 18, 1947, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"Previous issues of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING have carried information regarding the new AIEE committee structures. An explanation of the main committee organization (EE, Oct '47, pp 1006–11), the list of officers and committees with their personnel (EE, Oct '47, pp 1031–35), and the scope and personnel of the power group subcommittees (EE, Jan 48, pp 106–09) have been covered."
"More than 50 scientific papers on new techniques, and new advances in the electron microscope itself, were reported December 11–13, 1947, at the first international conference of the Electron Microscope Society of America which was held in Philadelphia, Pa. Leading electron microscope research specialists from England, France, Holland, India, Australia, and Canada, as well as many parts of the United States, were among the 250 scientists attending the sessions. Some of the subjects of interest to electrical engineers are reviewed briefly in the following paragraphs."
"The annual report of United Engineering Trustees, Inc., for the year ending September 30, 1947, recently was submitted to the AIEE and other participating societies."
"New ASRE Secretary. M. C. Turpin, acting secretary of the American Society of Refrigerating Engineers since June 1947, was elected secretary of the society at its 43d annual meeting in December. He had been sales manager in the merchandising department of Westinghouse Electric Corporation, in its Washington office, for 15 years, although he was connected with the company since 1909. For many years he was engaged in the preparation of technical literature and articles for the trade press for Westinghouse, first editor of the company's house organ, president of Electric Institute of Washington, member of the Washington Board of Trade, and also charter member and chairman of the Baltimore-Washington section of the ASRE. Besides his activities as secretary of the society, he is also secretary of all ASRE technical and standards committees."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Titus G. LeClair (F '40) chairman of the Washington Award Commission, has announced the selection of Senator Ralph E. Flanders of Vermont as the recipient of this year's award (1948). The Washington Award is made annually to an outstanding engineer, a citizen or resident of the United States who has ably served human needs. It was established for the purpose of promoting a better appreciation by the public for able work accomplished by engineers for the public welfare and encouraging among engineers themselves a broader understanding of their opportunities for public usefulness."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers. Sound Information. Bulletin, 4 pp. Presents information widely used in the design of sound equipment in a brief form. The contents include a table showing impedance versus decibel loss, with values calculated for impedance mismatch, minimum “T” loss, and bridging-pad loss. Also included are data on mixer circuits showing circuit diagrams and applications. The Daven Company, 191 Central Avenue, N. J."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"“Make the 1948 summer general meeting an exciting vacation in colorful Mexico.” This theme is seconded vigorously by the author who gives a first-hand account of what to expect on a holiday in Mexico."
"A portable signal analyzer, for testing the signals on telegraph lines while in use, is a valuable aid in maintaining reliable service. Direct interpretation of recorded data eliminates valuable time previously lost in detailed analysis and calculations."
"Diesel-electric locomotives now in service using resonant-circuit relays demonstrate the stability of settings and reliability of operation of the new speed-responsive device for acceleration control."
"Modernization of distribution systems requires engineering analysis to compare what is being done with what might be done. Often there is neither time nor manpower available when major enlargements are being made to make the extensive studies which seem advisable. Other investigations should be undertaken on a national basis by all the parties involved."
"Some interesting results of a survey which polled engineering graduates of June 1947 on conditions of employment were announced recently by New York University's college of engineering, Bronx, N. Y."
"“Atomic power” depends upon the possibility of producing a chain reaction, analogous to that of burning, which will be self-sustaining. Only when the fission of uranium was discovered did nuclear energy become of engineering concern. This is the fourth in a series of articles developed by the AIEE nucleonics committee."
"A modern airplane may include as many as a hundred devices requiring electric power. The development of electric systems for aircraft and the present status of electric auxiliary-power systems will determine to a great extent the kinds of systems that will be used tomorrow."
"Light flicker and voltage regulation resulting from an intermittent arc furnace load have been corrected by the largest series capacitor in existence. The design, installation, and protection of this unit presents interesting and unique problems."
"New design concept permits economical hysteresis fractional-horsepower motors which are comparable in size and efficiency to the more common induction motor. The smallest of this type, only one inch in outside stator diameter, is reputed to be the smallest a-c synchronous motor built in the United States."
"SEVERAL AIR-LINE accidents during the winter of 1945–46 focused attention on the need for some means of electronically “seeing” obstacles and avoiding them. At this time there was no satisfactory air-borne radar. Working in close conjunction with an air-line industry electronics laboratory, air-line flight engineering personnel held conferences to decide what operating requirements were needed of an air-borne electronic device to provide simple and easily interpretable cockpit presentation of collision information. The standard polar-plotted information available in the APS-10 radar was selected. The narrow-beam scanning of the APS-4 was used to confine the energy to essentially a narrow horizontal slit in the plane of flight, spilling a minimum amount of energy downward."
"Time-tested basic principles coupled with new frequency techniques, new materials, and refinements in well-known principles have been used to build a new frequency-type telemetering system which combines continuous measurement and fast response with high accuracy and stability of calibration."
"With extensive review of tests made during the past 25 years plus the results of certain self-conducted tests as its basis, the AIEE Standards committee subcommittee on conduction in stationary contact surfaces recommends various changes in the present Standards for permissible temperatures on electric contacts. These recommendations, together with pertinent abstracts of present Standards, are presented herewith for the purpose of obtaining comments and criticism."
"High speed communications between all major points in the United Airlines system are being effected by means of a new communications switching center installed at Chicago."
"Presentation of the 1947 Edison Medal to Doctor Joseph Slepian (F '27) “for his practical and theoretical contributions to power systems through circuit analysis, arc control, and current interruption” was made on Wednesday, January 28, during a general session of the 1948 AIEE winter general meeting at Pittsburgh, Pa. AIEE President Blake D. Hull presided at the session, at which the history of the medal was recounted by AIEE Director J. F. Fairman (F '35) representing S. M. Dean, chairman of the Edison Medal committee, and the medalist's career was outlined by M. W. Smith (F '42)."
"THE EDISON MEDAL was founded in 1904 by associates and friends of Thomas A. Edison who desired to commemorate the achievements of a quarter of a century in the art of electric lighting, and in particular the prominent part played in those achievements by Mr. Edison himself. As the most effective means of accomplishing this object, they established a fund, the proceeds of which are to be used to prepare a gold medal and certificate to be awarded each year to a resident of the United States or Canada for meritorious achievement in electrical science, electrical engineering, or the electrical arts."
"WE HAVE BEEN hearing much about the “sonic wall.” Electrical science, too, has had its barriers, not so spectacular perhaps, but none the less real. About 1920 it became evident that if lightning protection were to keep pace with the rapidly expanding power systems, some new principle would have to be employed. The limit to the abilities of the electrolytic arrester about had been reached. Then, as power systems continued to grow, the ability of circuit breakers to interrupt the enormous potential short circuits seemed faced with a stalemate. Again, as engineers in the early '30's were struggling to convert the attractive mercury-arc-rectifier principle into economical, reliable, heavy-power devices, their efforts appeared hopelessly blocked by the phenomenon of arc-backs that had defied explanation."
"THAT A MAN with my particular kind of talents, abilities, and personality should win a high engineering honor may seem very remarkable. Particularly is this the case for the Edison Medal, where the emphasis naturally would be put on achievement in practical invention, the founding or furthering of new industry, or the advancement of applied technology. The dominant interest of my youth, and the kind of formal education it led me to acquire, certainly did not presage distinction in such fields."
"TECHNICAL PAPERS previewed in this section will be presented at the AIEE Great Lakes District meeting, Des Moines, Iowa, April 1–3, 1948, and will be distributed in advance pamphlet form as soon as they become available. Members may obtain copies by mail from the AIEE Order Department, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at prices indicated with the abstracts; or at five cents less per copy if purchased at AIEE headquarters or at the meeting registration desk. Prices of copies to nonmembers will be twice those for members, less five cents for mailed copies."
"Plans substantially are completed for a very interesting conference on electron tubes for instrumentation and other industrial applications to be held at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa., March 29–30, 1948. The conference is divided about equally between informational talks on this and related subjects and discussion periods, particularly on specific tube types, in which it is hoped that many of those attending will participate."
"Arrangements have been made for a 3-day meeting of the AIEE Great Lakes District to be held in Des Moines, Iowa, April 1–3, 1948, with headquarters in the Hotel Fort Des Moines. Six technical sessions will be held at which a number of papers will be presented covering a variety of subject matter: electronics, electric heating, network analysis and measurements, switchgear, a symposium on nucleonics, rotating machinery, heavy current busses, computer, and an optical radar for surveying. In addition, there will be a Student session at which papers will be presented by the Students. A banquet will be held on the first evening with a smoker and entertainment to be held on the second evening. Special entertainment has been arranged for the visiting women consisting of a tea, sight-seeing tour, and dinner."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Order forms for AIEE PROCEEDINGS, and abstracts of the papers included, have been published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING as listed below. Each section of PROCEEDINGS contains the full, formal text of a technical paper including discussion if any, as it will appear in the annual volume of TRANSACTIONS. PROCEEDINGS are issued in accordance with the revised publication policy that became efiective January 1947 (EE, Dec '46, pp 576–8; Jan '47, pp 82–3), and arc available to AIEE Associates, Members, and Fellows."
"When plans were announced a year ago for the holding of the 1948 AIEE winter general meeting in Pittsburgh, many and diverse were the estimates of probable attendance, estimates ranging all the way from 1,000 to a “optimistic” 2,500. The final verified registration figure was and might have been even greater if more people had been able to obtain hotel accommodations. Official headquarters for the meeting were on the 17th floor of the William Penn Hotel where a variety of meeting rooms and halls provided facilities for a continuous succession of parallel committee, technical, and conference sessions. This was the second time since 1924 that the AIEE's big winter meeting has been held outside the city of New York, it having been held in Philadelphia in 1924 and again in 1941. The 1949 winter general meeting is scheduled again to be held in New York City."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of January 15, 1948, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"A standardized examination, similar to the 25,500 experimental tests given on a nation-wide scale last year, may become an entrance requirement of American colleges of engineering as a result of increasing acceptance of a Measurement and Guidance Project begun in 1943 by the Engineers' Council for Professional Development in co-operation with the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching."
"The selective sequence electronic calculator recently completed by the International Business Machines Corporation, New York, N. Y., is a general purpose machine which combines electronic speed, vast memory capacity, and high flexibility. Memory capacity, an inherent limitation for large scale computer, is supplied by three methods. Eccles-Jordan circuits are used in the electronic memory unit to provide storage of 160 decimal digits. An additional 3,000 decimal digits are immediately available in the relay memory unit. The remainder of the 400,000-digit storage capacity is supplied by punched tapes."
"Eta Kappa Nu, national honorary electrical engineering society, presented six recognition awards for the years 1942–47 during the AIEE winter general meeting which was held in Pittsburgh, Pa. Recognition awards were presented to six outstanding young electrical engineers, and 15 young men received honorable mentions. The presentations were made at a dinner which was held on Monday, January 26, 1948, in the Hotel William Penn."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Illinois Institute of Technology now is accepting applications for the 1948 Westinghouse fellowship in power systems engineering, it has been announced by Doctor W. A. Lewis, dean of the graduate school. An award of $1,500 and free tuition for three semesters of full-time intensive training leading to a master of science degree in electrical engineering is made to the successful applicant. Candidates must have a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from an accredited engineering college. The award will be based upon personal qualifications, interest, and scholarship."
"Games Slayter, vice-president in charge of research and development of Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, has been chosen to receive the 1948 Industrial Research Institute medal presented for outstanding contribution to the field of industrial research. The Institute, composed of 93 companies representing diversified types of industry throughout the nation, cited Mr. Slayter for his leadership in the development of glass fibers and their commercial application. The medal was presented during the winter meeting of the Institute at Rye, N. Y. A previous recipient of the award was Doctor Willis R. Whitney (A '01) organizer of General Electric Research Laboratory."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"By John F. Rider and Seymour D. Uslan. John F. Rider, Publisher, Inc., New York, N. Y., 1947, 160 pages, paper-bound, pocket size, 99 cents. This book was written for the man lacking technical or engineering training. An understanding of vectors will make reading of articles on technical developments in radio and electronics easier for those lacking technical training, thereby assuring authors greater latitude in the preparation of technical articles."
"1947 ASTM Standards. The 1947 compilation of American Society for Testing Materials Standards on Electrical Insulating Materials is 580 pages, and gives in latest form the 90 specifications and tests covering a wide range of materials in this field. In addition to these standards there is an appendix discussing the significance of tests of these materials, and information on the scope and personnel of ASTM Committee D-9 which sponsors the publication. A detailed index completes the book which is available in paper cover from ASTM Headquarters, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia 3, Pa., $4."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The AIEE board of directors has endorsed President Hull's proposal for a constitutional convention of engineering societies toward the objective of establishing an appropriate joint national engineering organization “to deal with the social, economic, and professional problems common to all engineers,” and has taken action providing for the AIEE to participate in such a convention. This subject is believed to be of some direct concern to every member of the Institute. Its discussion by Section and other groups is suggested, so that membership opinion may evolve and Institute officers be guided accordingly. Comments are invited for the “Letters to the Editor” columns."
"General information is given about a new scheme for indicating change from a balanced condition which can be used with any type of bridge circuit. The method is one which checks its own integrity and lends itself to applications demanding rugged apparatus, long life, and a minimum of maintenance."
"The importance of electric power has been proved dramatically by two world wars, and it will play no less a vital part in any future conflict. On the basis of the record, the author strongly emphasizes the necessity for co-operation between the Department of National Defense and the electric power industry to ensure the maintenance of adequate reserves for the production of electric power in anticipation of future threats to United States military safety and security."
"Methods of measuring nuclear radiation have been described meticulously in technical literature as they were developed. This summation should provide a good basis for the understanding of current and future literature describing specific instruments, newer refinements of the measurement technique, and nucleonics research. This is the fourth in a series of articles developed by the AIEE nucleonics committee."
"Modern science and technological “know-how” constitute a team, the extraordinary capacity of which was demonstrated in World War II. Will this team continue to be the servant of democracy, or may it become a Frankenstein capable of forcing the American people into political subservience? A well-known observer offers provocative criticism of the current scene and some of the current proposals. He points out that as a democratic state becomes more highly industrialized, the eternal vigilance which is its price of liberty must deploy itself over an ever-widening front to meet new encroachments if freedom is to be preserved. Can we continue to counter the threats of our industrialism? The author wishes to emphasize that these are his own personal views."
"Two similar batteries, X1 and X2, of the same voltage feed two equal loads, R1 and R2, by connecting wires as shown in Figure 1. The wires from A to B, and from B to C are interlaced tightly so that very little magnetic field outside their neighborhood is produced by the interlaced wires. These wires are at nearly the same potential, so that the electric field between them is very feeble."
"THE ELECTRICAL UTILITY INDUSTRY is interested intensely in the heat pump because it holds promise of permitting the industry to supply domestic heating service in an economical manner. Until now it has supplied very little of this market and without the heat pump is not likely ever to supply very much of it."
"THE fundamental thermodynamic principles of the heat pump have been known for almost a century. Its operation on the cooling cycle has had extensive practical application in refrigeration, and in air conditioning of homes and other buildings. But, because of many technical difficulties and relatively high first cost, its operation on the heating cycle has had only limited application."
"LED by electricals, engineers generally have acquired the habit of considering the heat pump exclusively in terms of electric motor drive. It can be shown that a heat pump driven by a gas, gasoline, or Diesel engine has superior possibilities in many respects, including both first cost and operating costs. During the present active consideration of such innovations as radiant heating, resistance heating, solar heating, heat storage, use of ground coils with heat pump, it seems wise for electrical engineers not to overlook the merits of engine drive for heat pumps in seeking the best technical and economic combination of elements to comprise a complete winter-heating summer-air-conditioning plant."
"IN MOST PARTS of the United States, heating plants must be adequate to heat our buildings from 0 to 70 degrees Fahrenheit. Actually this range varies with locality from a temperature difference of 100 degrees to one of only 35 degrees. It can be shown that the temperature span for heating, which largely determines size of plant, does not vary directly with the degree-day record (cumulative temperature deficiency below 65 degrees Fahrenheit). Even in the milder zones, heating requirements must include provision for occasional extremes of low temperature. The lowest recorded temperature need not be used as the basis for selecting building heating equipment, as this temperature minimum is approached only briefly and at long intervals. Through local experience, outdoor design temperatures may be derived. For fuel-fired plants, the design temperature is usually about 15 degrees above the lowest recorded, except in mild-winter areas."
"Design has been completed of an X-ray thickness gauge for cold mill and other applications utilizing one photoelectric multiplier pickup and two X-ray sources. The range of the gauge is 5 to 50 thousandths of an inch with accuracies up to one per cent."
"Prompted by current interest in the possibilities of atomic energy, ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING is presenting a series of articles reviewing the various known and tried methods of producing electric power in the light of present-day knowledge. Previously published articles reviewed electric power sources in general, piezoelectricity, and electrostatic power sources.∗ The present article considers another source, the battery, or electrochemical source of power, and will appear in two parts. Part 1 presents an historical résumé of the subject, while part 2 will describe its technical aspects."
"THIS REPORT is published to bring its contents to the attention of a larger group of interested engineers than were contacted through its presentation at general meeting sessions so that a broader understanding will be obtained and a wider experience brought into the picture. The suggestions given are the recommendations of the committee, are not to be interpreted as AIEE Standards, and are in no way mandatory. Comments or suggestions by the readers will be appreciated and considered by the committee. Such comments also will be considered for publication as “Letters to the Editor,” and may be addressed to Professor Clyde C. Whipple, 85 Livingston Street, Brooklyn 2, N. Y."
"A program of broad interest has been arranged for the 3-day meeting of the North Eastern District to be held in New Haven, Conn., April 28–30, 1948. Meeting headquarters will be in the Hotel Taft. A variety of subject matter appropriate for the locality of the meeting will be presented in ten technical sessions, and in addition there will be a general session of interest to many members and two sessions or more of student papers. A special program for the women, inspection trips to nearby industries, and entertainment in the evenings assure a busy time."
"Effective with the 1948 edition, the “AIEE Year Book” will be published and distributed in the early fall, probably during September, instead of early in the spring as it has been in recent years. The objective of this change is to make available at the beginning of the AIEE administrative year an up-to-date roster that will be a maximum service to the new officer and committee personnel and other members active in AIEE affairs. This change was recommended by the publication committee and approved by the board of directors at Pittsburgh in January. The decision also was made to continue issuance of the Year Book with the same general format and arrangement that has prevailed since 1934. It was decided further that the Year Book would continue to be distributed automatically upon issuance only to the working group of the membership comprising the local, District, and national officers, and to the personnel of national committees, but that copies also would be made available, without charge to any Associate, Member, or Fellow of the Institute upon written application to AIEE headquarters."
"Hereafter, advance pamphlet copies of authors' manuscripts of technical program papers, popularly known as “preprints,” will be available at the flat price of 30 cents per copy to members, 60 cents per copy to nonmembers, instead of at the sliding scale of prices heretofore prevailing on the basis of the physical size of the individual paper. Also, there has been a substantial reduction in the authorized free distribution of these papers. These actions were taken by the publication committee at its January meeting in Pittsburgh during the recent winter general meeting, in response to recommendations from the finance committee and the board of directors that this very specialized phase of AIEE publication services be made more nearly self-supporting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Plans currently under way for the 1948 summer general meeting in Mexico City, June 21–25, give all indication that this year's meeting will be long remembered, both for the interest of its technical program, and for its colorful and picturesque meeting site. Not only are the problems of a country undergoing industrialization of great technical interest, which will provide material for lively technical sessions and a variety of inspection trips, but every opportunity will be provided to take advantage of Mexico's facilities for sightseeing and recreation, to make the summer meeting an exciting vacation. In relation to plans for the meeting, as reported elsewhere in these pages, C. S. Purnell, chairman of the AIEE special meeting committee, recently spent a week in Mexico City in direct conference with the local general meeting committee there, working out many of the administrative and operational details in preliminary to the summer meeting."
"An open meeting of the AIEE membership committee was held January 28 at the William Penn Hotel in Pittsburgh during the 1948 winter general meeting for the purpose of reviewing membership objectives, activities, and procedures. In addition to Chairman Tomlinson Fort (Pittsburgh), Vice-Chairman F. S. Black (Washington, D. C.), and Secretary F. A. Norris (AIEE headquarters, New York), the 40-odd persons who attended and took part in the conference included President Blake D. Hull and Presidential-Candidate Everett S. Lee; also, vice-presidents or District secretaries representing five Districts, in addition to five out of the ten District vice-chairmen of the membership-committee; eight of the 21 members-at-large of the membership committee, and chairmen or membership chairmen representing ten local Sections; the chairman and secretary of the AIEE Sections committee."
"The board of examiners, at its meeting of February 19, 1948, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"The following list of some important books of interest to electrical engineers has been compiled by the staff of the Engineering Societies Library. The books were selected from those added to the library during 1947. Some equally good books may have been omitted, but the desire for brevity forced the staff to choose rather than to include all."
"Fifty-eight employees of the General Electric Company and its manufacturing affiliates, who performed work of outstanding merit during the years 1946 and 1947, have been presented Charles A. Coffin awards for their accomplishments. Named for the first president and one of the founders of the company, the Charles A. Coffin awards, the company's highest, carry a certificate and a cash honorarium. In the present awards, the company divided $114,500, or $1,250 per person, among those cited."
"The 1948 Conference and Exhibition sponsored by the National Association of Corrosion Engineers will be held April 5–8, 1948, at the Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo. The 4-day session will include an extensive technical program, as well as an All-Corrosion Exhibition."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"In a further emphasis upon the fundamental concepts in engineering education, the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn will offer the new degree of master of science in applied mathematics to meet the growing need for men with a knowledge of mathematics which can be applied broadly in all fields of engineering. Prior to the war, only a limited number of engineers availed themselves of the Polytechnic graduate course in mathematics, but the broader applications of basic sciences stimulated by wartime developments very substantially have increased the number of men enrolled in these courses today and have brought a demand for a graduate degree in the field."
"The National Electronics Conference, Inc., which will hold its annual technical forum at the Edgewater Beach Hotel, Chicago, Ill., November 4–6, 1948, has selected W. C. White (M '46) General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., as chairman of the board of directors for the current year."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Manual of Aluminum Casting Alloys, Prepared to be of assistance to design engineers, foundrymen, and users of castings, the book contains tabular data on physical and mechanical properties of various sand and permanent mold aluminum alloys most commonly used, general metallurgy of aluminum alloys, properties of specific alloys, foundry, practice, and heat treatment. Available without charge from the Aluminum Research Institute, Ill. West Washington Street, Chicago 2, Ill."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Many of the main hazards to air safety are the result of the generation and discharge of static electricity, a problem which has not been solved satisfactorily either in commercial or military aviation. The need for constructive research in the field is apparent. However, the author submits that such dangers as arise from electrostatic discharge can be eliminated by the utilization of the ionizer described in this article."
"Seven outstanding engineers in the field of motor design were asked to calculate by their particular method the reactances of a 2-horsepower squirrel-cage induction motor. These results are compared with test data and comments from the engineers presented."
"THE WIDE ambient-temperature range, small size, and quick heating of gas-filled thyratrons are important characteristics that encourage their use in many industrial applications. Experience has shown, however, that available gas-filled thyratrons have suffered from gas cleanup and short tube life when used in circuits that apply a high inverse anode voltage immediately after current conduction. When these conditions obtain, cleanup is caused by ion bombardment of the anode so severe that ions penetrate the anode surface and permanently become trapped."
"Initiated by a request of the joint communications board of the United States Joint Chiefs of Staff, the development of a microwave frequency standard was completed in June 1945 by the National Bureau of Standards with the assistance of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology radiation laboratory. Frequency measurements and calibrations of frequency meters or voltage sources in the microwave range now are possible as a regular calibration service."
"HIGH-TENSION procelain long has been and stillis one of the most important ceramics used in the electrical industry. For high-temperature and high-frequency applications, however, it has some deficiencies which are not present to the same degree in the newer oxide procelains, among which are zircon and alumina procelains. Data on dielectric strength, resistivity, and power factor were obtained over a range of temperature for these two oxide porcelains as well as for high tension procelain. The temperature range covered extends up to 1,000 degrees centigrade."
"The application of X rays to the gauging of hot strip steel has been accomplished using one X-ray tube and two photoelectric tube detectors. The gauge also has other promising uses."
"THE HIGH LEVEL of industrial and commercial activity has created a demand for electric power greater today than at the peak of wartime production. Installation of additional generating capacity and new transmission lines has been unable to keep up with this growth in power demand. This has led to transfer of additional power over existing lines, thus making dependable line relaying more vital than ever."
"ALTHOUGH glass can be ground, sawed, and drilled in the solid state, its hardness is such that many operations are performed most easily on glass which has been reheated to a plastic state. From early antiquity, fire and heat have been used for sealing, moulding, and joining glass parts together. Flame heating applications are limited by inherent disadvantages — flame heating is surface heating; steep temperature gradients occur which sometimes boil away volatile constituents; and flame heating is difficult to restrict into sharply localized paths without excessive sacrifice in heat."
"WHILE the conventional methods of bus distribution, using multiple cables, flat bars, channels, angles, or tubular conductors, all have their particular advantages, they are limited, chiefly because of excessive voltage drop or high installation cost. Industrial concerns continually are faced with this difficult problem in laying out the electric system for manufacturing plants. The ability of manufacturers to extrude high conductivity metals in practically any shape, opens up a new field to the designer for arrangement of conductors. By using close spacing in a partial triangular arrangement low reactance is obtained, in a simple and inexpensive structure. Using these develop-lengths can be made. Each conductor has a cross-sectional area of 5.16 square inches and a perimeter of 33.86 inches. The width to thickness ratio was determined by calculations from Maxwell's basic formula for reactance, using geometric mean distances. The final design has a ratio of 36. This study also aided in deciding on a conductor spacing of one inch — a good compromise between low reactance, adequate cooling, satisfactory insulation, and reasonable short-circuit stresses."
"IMPROVED ACCURACY of automatic feeder voltage regulators will permit increasing feeder load or increasing feeder length without exceeding specified limits for consumers' voltage under varying conditions of load, temperature, frequency, and so forth. To obtain maximum benefits in system design and operation from increased regulator accuracy, distribution engineers must know what limits of error to expect for their operating conditions. The standards for “Accuracy of Control Devices for Induction Voltage and Step Voltage Regulators,” which have been included in the proposed revision of ASA C57, “Standards for Transformers, Regulators, and Reactors,” will provide a practical basis for specifications. The purpose of this article is to aid distribution engineers in gaining a working knowledge of these new standards."
"Terratex is a thin flexible inorganic insulation manufactured from asbestos fiber. Its excellent high-temperature characteristics promise to make it an ideal inexpensive class B insulation."
"MANY physical phenomena in the oceans can be determined from measurements of the horizontal and vertical gradients of salinity and temperature. The “salinity-temperature-depth recorder” was developed to permit these measurements to be made continuously from a moving vessel. This type of instrument has been operated regularly for several years and has been found useful for obtaining hydrographic data. It has been applied particularly for inshore surveys in shoal water and in ocean areas where its accuracy of 0.2 degree Fahrenheit and 0.3 part per thousand (‰) salinity are adequate. The instrument measures temperature over the range from 28 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit and specific electrical conductance from 0.00 to 0.07 mho, and from these computes salinity. Depth is measured over the range from 0 to 1,200 feet. The measured depth and temperature and the computed salinity are recorded simultaneously on a linear strip chart. The instrument operates from a 115-volt 60-cycle supply and is unaffected by normal variations in voltage and frequency and by the motion of the vessel."
"Part 2 of a 2-part article considering the subject of electrochemical power sources describes the technical aspects of the battery. Together with part 1, which presented an historical resume of the electrochemical power source, this article constitutes one of a series of articles in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING reviewing the various known and tried methods of producing electric power in the light of present-day knowledge."
"The combination of a standard general purpose motor with a fluid coupling in a compact integral unit has produced an efficient device which is simple in operation, principle, and design."
"Eight methods are available for separating isotopes or enriching the desired isotope content of a mixture. Each is based upon either a physical or chemical phenomenon dependent upon the mass weight rather than the charge on the nucleus. This is the sixth of a series of articles developed by the AIEE nucleonics committee; the entire series will be published in pamphlet form upon its completion."
"ANEW 225- and 600-ampere frame size air circuit breaker incorporating the recent war improvements is now available. The principal advantages offered in this design over older ones specifically are 1. An improved arc chute of reduced size. 2. Long-lived contacts with momentary ratings equal to interrupting ratings. 3. Flexible and rugged overcurrent devices capable of necessary precision timing for selective tripping systems, but equally suitable for simple overload protection. 4. A 30 per cent reduction in size. 5. Longer life and lower maintenance from improved design."
"THE CIRCUIT BREAKERS designed in 1913 for sectionalizing the 11/22-kv 3-wire trolley and feeder circuits on the New Haven Railroad electrification had become inadequate by 1936 because of limited interrupting capacity to clear line faults fast enough to insure system stability and reliability. Although these never were designed to handle the entire fault interruption duty, space and weight limitations in the switching stations and supporting structures ruled out their replacement with modern circuit breakers of conventional design for faster fault clearing by line circuit breakers directly. The oil circuit breakers are known as “bridge-type” circuit breakers because of their location on the anchor bridges spanning the railroad tracks and catenary contact system. Figure 1, of a typical switching station, clearly indicates the space and weight limitations involved because of the location of the circuit breakers on the anchor bridges."
"The United States as a nation is the greatest power consumer in the world, and more than half of this power consumption is represented by industrial customers. As industrialization advances steadily, consequently, so does the demand for electric power. The demand has been met in the past. Its future satisfaction can be accomplished only by a unified and highly integrated electrical industry."
"Two new auxiliary devices, the torque balance load injector and the torque balance converter, have been designed for use with the torque balance telemeter and other types of telemeters. These developments will add greatly to the flexibility and performance of telemeter systems."
"The program for the AIEE summer general meeting in Mexico City, June 21–25, 1948, will feature the latest trends and practices in the development of electric power and its applications to industries of particular interest to Mexican engineers. In addition, the annual meeting, the delegates get-together, the conference of vice-presidents and District secretaries, and a conference on Section operation and management will be held as usual, all amidst colorful surroundings of which the summer general meeting committee has taken full advantage in the arrangement of inspection trips and tours to many places of interest. Beginning with the official inauguration of the meeting on Monday, with entertainment each evening, and a reception to the president, a busy and enjoyable week is assured."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A regular meeting of the AIEE board of directors was held at the William Penn Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa., January 29, 1948, during the winter general meeting of the Institute."
"More than 280 people attended the AIEE conference on electron tubes for instrumentation and industrial use, which was held at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel, in Philadelphia, Pa., March 29–30, 1948. This was the first of a new type of national meeting — the AIEE conference — designed specifically to meet the needs of certain technical committees who wish to attract the attention of as many engineers in a certain field as possible on some of their definite projects (EE, Feb '48, p 189)."
"The new price policy for advance pamphlet copies of authors' manuscripts of technical program papers, popularly known as “preprints,” (EE, Apr '48, p 378) has been liberalized to the extent that authors, or the organization with which the authors are affiliated, may obtain quantities of pamphlets in advance of a meeting at the member's single-copy price, provided a written order is submitted with the manuscript."
"Sponsored by the Iowa Section, the eighth in the series of Great Lakes District meetings was held at the Fort Des Moines Hotel in Des Moines, Iowa, April 1–3, 1948. This was the first such meeting to be held so far west in District 5, and the response was good, as the location was conveniently accessible to a membership area not heretofore directly served by District activity."
"Recommended for Transfer The board of examiners, at its meeting of March 18, 1948, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute."
"An attendance of more than 15,000 engineers and guests was reported for the annual national convention of the Institute of Radio Engineers which was held March 22–25, 1948, at the Hotel Commodore and the Grand Central Palace in New York, N. Y. Some 28 technical sessions during which more than 140 papers were presented highlighted the annual meeting."
"The Stromberg-Carlson Company, Rochester, N. Y., in collaboration with the General Telephone System, has established an experimental multichannel very-high-frequency radio-telephone toll link between Johnstown and Northville, N. Y. It is said to be one of the first multichannel installations of its kind in the independent telephone field. Two conversations may be carried on at the same time in the experimental equipment."
"With “One World of Science” as its central theme, the centennial celebration of the American Association for the Advancement of Science will be held in Washington, D. C., September 13–17, 1948. To emphasize the importance of the theme, a number of symposia on scientific subjects of great interest, not only to scientists, but also to the general public, is being organized."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"“Computing Mechanisms and Linkages.” Based upon wartime development, this is the 27th volume of the radiation laboratory series sponsored by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass. Technique, rather than theory, is emphasized, with various types of bar-linkage computers being stressed. Fundamental concepts and basic design problems are detailed before the author progresses to the more advanced aspects of computer design. Illustrations include numerous nomographs as well as drawings of the linkages. By Antonín Svoboda. McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York, N. Y., 1948, 359 pages, 6¼ by 9¼ inches, $4.50."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"A recent survey of the telegraph and telephone facilities of Mexico showed that equipment was old, in poor condition, and insufficient. An over-all improvement program calls for rewiring overloaded principal lines, installation of up-to-date central office equipment, replacement of transmitters and receivers for radiotelegraphy, and other modernization steps."
"THE D-C output voltage of a typical rectifier has more ripple than the output of a d-c generator. The ripple increases as the number of rectifier phases is decreased. It also increases as the rectifier voltage is reduced by phase control. The voltage ripple affects the performance of d-c motors in a number of respects including heating, commutation, and speed regulation, particularly at light loads and reduced voltage. In recent times the extension of controlled-rectifier drives to d-c motors in the range of 100 horsepower or more has raised the question of modifying the rating of these larger motors when operated from rectifiers with phase control. In order to evaluate the effect of a polyphase rectifier supply on a medium or large sized motor, tests were made on a 400-horsepower 375/750-rpm 230-volt d-c stabilized shunt-wound force-ventilated motor. Tests were made with both 6-phase and 3-phase rectifier supplies, and the results were compared with similar tests using a d-c generator as a source."
"Electron tube design is an ever-changing and rapidly advancing art. This survey of current practices, developments, and trends gives an over-all view of an expanding electrical industry."
"SCARCITY OF POWER in the city of Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico, prompted a group of its most outstanding industries to build a privately operated steam power plant, which would meet not only its present demands, but also satisfy its future needs. The project was engineered by the firm Gibbs and Hill, Inc., of New York, N. Y. Most of this project was developed during the period of World War II, which accounts for several interesting problems that had to be solved to meet the conditions prevailing at the time. The building was built entirely of reinforced concrete, for steel was one of the materials curtailed during the war. The area covered by the building is approximately 25,000 square feet."
"THE DYNAMICS of common types of instrument movements have been studied a great deal, but information dealing with this subject has not been available readily in a form suitable for application work. The behavior of most instruments can be defined by a second order differential equation. In this case the frequency response characteristics can be expressed in terms of the undamped natural frequency and the relative damping. Curves can be plotted in terms of these two parameters to provide a simple and direct method of predicting the magnitudes of instrument errors so that one may decide whether a particular system is satisfactory for a given application, and if so by what margin. The frequency of the signal is expressed as a fraction of the undamped natural frequency of the instrument in order that the curves be applicable universally."
"The present rapid industrial growth in Mexico is reflected in her increasing steel production. From its early establishment by the Spanish settlers, steel making has progressed to the point where it promises to be one of the leading industries of Mexico."
"A standard of attenuation for microwave measurements has been established using the heterodyne or intermediate-frequency substitution method of calibrating microwave attenuators. A preliminary model of the waveguide-below-cutoff standard attenuator has been built, tested, and improved until its accuracy is within 0.01 decibel per 20 decibels. Accuracy of the entire unit is within 0.02 decibel in the 0–10-decibel range and within 0.2 per cent of the measured attenuation in decibels in the 10–50-decibel range."
"VARIOUS METHODS have been devised for producing an insulating film on the surface of electrical steel laminations for the purpose of minimizing interlaminar eddy currents when the core comprising the laminations carries an alternating magnetic flux. The formation of an insulating oxide film on the surface of the laminations appears to be advantageous from a production standpoint because it does not necessitate the handling of individual laminations, which is required when varnishes or the like are applied, and because the oxidation process can be combined with a strain annealing operation which is undertaken when the optimum magnetic properties of the magnetic material are desired. If the oxide is formed in an air atmosphere at low temperatures, as where it is desired to insulate the laminations only and not to strain-anneal them, then the characteristics of the product are undesirably variable in that sometimes red ferric oxide is formed while at other times blue-black magnetic oxide is formed. Ferric oxide, common red rust, is undesirable because its thickness causes poor space factor in the core and because it is not tightly adherent. When properly produced, the magnetic oxide (Fe3O4) is tightly adherent, thin, and provides satisfactory interlaminar resistance."
"The flexibility of the “Director” is pointed out by this description and explanation of how it works and the variety of things it can do. It eliminates the necessity of direct trunks between all offices without forfeiting universal numbering."
"AIEE Standards 601 and 602, covering large 3,600-rpm condensing steam turbine-generators, were adopted officially in February 1945. Now, after three years of trial use, a review has been made to determine the manufacturers' progress in developing the units and the degree of acceptance on the part of the electrical utility industry, and the results have been tabulated."
"MORE THAN 2,100,000 horsepower of Diesel-electric locomotives was produced in the United States during 1947. These and other internal power locomotives, including steam-turbine electric and motor-generator locomotives, all incorporate d-c traction generators of specialized design. Taken together, they account for the surprising figure of 70 per cent of the total d-c generator production of the entire United States for the year."
"The application of servomechanisms to airplane control started with short-time pilot relief systems which would keep the aircraft on its already established course. As more and more operations could be performed by the automatic pilot, the idea evolved of obtaining complete flight path control from take-off to landing. This will open the way for faster flights and remote control of guided missiles."
"THAT the science of electricity is not new is evidenced by an interesting historical survey of electrical events in 1748 and 1848 which appears in the January 16, 1948, issue of the English magazine, Electrical Review."
"STANDARDS are very important to the whole electrical industry: to the user of electricity in its multitude of applications, to the power company which produces the electricity and delivers it to the user, to the manufacturer of the machinery and equipment, to engineers and architects, and to the general public. From the generators to the utilization apparatus, everything is connected together by a system of wires. Without nationally accepted standards satisfactory performance would be very difficult to achieve."
"A LITTLE more than ten years ago a study was made of the lightning performance of all overhead wood pole transmission lines of the Northern Indiana Public Service Company. This study started with the year 1932. The record showed that the company was experiencing 40.1 lightning outages per 100 circuit miles per year, other type outages averaged 31.7"
"THE DESIGN of bus runs for high capacity generating stations always has received considerable attention in order to insure freedom from faults of any type. A metal-enclosed nonventilated isolated-phase bus has been developed which combines a high degree of reliability with immediate accessibility for inspection or maintenance. By questioning operating, construction, and consulting engineers the following specifications were established to guide the development of the new design: 1. Ultimate design is to permit shipment of complete factory-assembled sections to reduce field installation time to a minimum."
"Equivalent circuit analysis has been developed for most types of electric machinery and has proved to be a valuable aid in design, understanding, and calculations. The equivalent circuit for the repulsion motor should find its place among older analyses as an optional alternate approach to performance calculations and motor design."
"THE TERM “standardization” is applied to very diverse fields of activity. This article deals principally with the procedures and activities of the American Standards Association with particular reference to engineering standards of interest to the AIEE. The Institute long has been a leader in this field and was one of a small group of organizations which formed the American Engineering Standards Committee (predecessor of the American Standards Association) in 1918."
"RECENTLY there has been considerable discussion of the benefits with respect to electric power system stability to be obtained by the use of a properly designed angle regulator. An angle regulator applied to a synchronous machine is defined here as a regulator that varies the machine excitation voltage in response to changes in the angle between the rotor interpole axis and the effective system voltage so as to tend to restore the initially set angle. The purpose of this article is to present the results of an analytical exploration of the possibilities of the angle regulator as regards stability. In particular, since voltage regulators already are used extensively, and since their use as aids in power-system stability already has been studied, it has seemed appropriate to compare the action of an angle regulator with that of a voltage regulator."
"As the latest of a series of articles reviewing the various known and tried methods of producing electric power, this article presents a survey of fundamental magnetostriction phenomena and their application to the conversion of mechanical to electric energy, or conversely."
"Three cranes were used to lift this 360,000-pound welded-construction spiral casing and speed ring for the fifth Shasta dam hydraulic turbine to a 40-foot boring mill in the Allis-Chalmers shops. This casing measures 50 feet across. It is constructed in seven sections with riveted buttstrap joints. Its speed ring portion has an 18-foot inside diameter. The inlet section has an inside diameter of 12 feet 8 inches, and is made of 1⅞-inch plates. Upon completion the unit will be shipped to join four other Allis-Chalmers turbines at Shasta. Each of these is rated 103,000 horsepower at 138½ rpm under a 330-foot head."
"MOST OF THE major problems confronting the radiotelegraph industry in the United States, and in varying degrees elsewhere, arise from the following basic causes: 1. Competition by increasingly efficient overseas airmail and telephone services. 2. Rising labor costs without proportionate increase in productivity. 3. Scarcity of suitable frequencies. 4. Trend toward lower rates."
"FOR 32 YEARS, oil-filled bushings have been applied to transformers and oil circuit breakers. Although these bushings have an excellent service record, recent trends in electric apparatus have made improvements necessary. A new line of oil-filled bushings has been developed which meets the requirements of hermetic sealing, low-cost maintenance, high mechanical strength, reduction in size and weight, and also provides ease of installation and storage. These bushings meet AIEE and NEMA (National Electrical Manufacturers Association) standards and are designed to meet the needs of modern apparatus."
"Although there are eight methods for separating desired isotopes, each demand cannot be met by all eight processes. The engineer must be able not only to determine which methods are applicable, but also to calculate the separation, volume, and time involved in any type process. This is the seventh of a series of articles developed by the AIEE nucleonics committee; the entire series will be published in pamphlet form upon its completion."
"This 60,000-kw generator is the first unit of its size shipped by Westinghouse completely assembled with rotor in place. Built according to AIEE-American Society of Mechanical Engineers standards recently set up for the industry, the new construction makes possible shipping generators as single units saving time in loading, unloading, and assembly at the installation site. Only a single railroad car was required."
"These are authors' digests of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE Great Lakes District meeting, Des Moines, Iowa, April 1–3, 1948. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE PROCEEDINGS or in AIEE TRANSACTIONS."
"These are author's digests of most of the papers presented at the AIEE conference on electron tubes for instrumentation and industrial use which was held in Philadelphia, Pa., March 29–30, 1948."
"All is in readiness for the AIEE summer general meeting to be held in Mexico City, June 21–25, 1948. The tentative program announced in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for May is complete, and many of the papers will present the latest trends and practices in the generation, transmission, and distribution of electric power, as well as its applications to the production of steel, petroleum, mining, textiles, and paper. By virtue of location, a rare opportunity is afforded to spend a vacation in a picturesque and colorful country, and at the same time keep in touch with some of the latest developments in the engineering field."
"The Pacific general meeting will be held in Spokane, Wash., August 24–27, 1948, with headquarters in the well-known Davenport Hotel. Arrangements are being made for a technical program to present a variety of papers on engineering problems and developments in the Pacific Northwest. A number of the inspection trips will be co-ordinated with subject matter on the program. In addition, there will be ample opportunity for sports, trips, and recreation and Spokane, situated within a day's easy motoring of seven national parks, provides an ideal setting to combine attendance with a few days' vacation."
"Order forms for AIEE PROCEEDINGS, and abstracts of the papers included, have been published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING as listed below. Each section of PROCEEDINGS contains the full, formal text of a technical paper including discussion if any, as it will appear in the annual volume of TRANSACTIONS. PROCEEDINGS are issued in accordance with the revised publication policy that became effective January 1947 (EE, Dec '46, pp 576–8; Jan '47, pp 82–3), and are available to AIEE Associates, Members, a n d Fellows."
"Because of the outstanding success of the AIEE conference on electron tubes held in Philadelphia, Pa., March 29–30, 1948 (EE, May '48 pp 494–97) and the AIEE conference on rubber and plastics (EE, June '48, pp 603–05) several AIEE technical committees are planning conferences for 1948–49 on various subjects. A description of this new type of AIEE meeting was given in a previous issue of ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (EE, Feb '48 page 189). So far nine conferences are being planned."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Some 134 people, including representatives of many rubber and plastics manufacturing companies as well as equipment manufacturers, attended the AIEE conference on electrical engineering problems in the rubber and plastics industries which was held in the auditorium of the M. O'Neil Company's department store in Akron, Ohio, April 20, 1948. This was the second of a new type of AIEE national meeting known as the AIEE conference planned to provide a means for specialists in a particular field to get together and discuss mutual problems (EE, Feb' 48, p 189)."
"With the Connecticut Section acting as host, the 24th in the series of North Eastern District meetings was held at the Taft Hotel, New Haven, Conn., April 28–30, 1948. This was the third such meeting to be held in New Haven (previous meetings were held there in 1928 and 1936). A heavy program presenting a wide range of topics catering to diversified interests, drew a verified registered attendance of 669. An analysis of this attendance, and comparison with previous years, are presented in accompanying tabulations."
"As is indicated elsewhere in these news pages in the analysis of registration at the recent North Eastern District meeting at New Haven, the student participation was characteristically heavy. Three of the technical sessions were given over to the presentation of student papers."
"Recommended for Transfer The board of examiners, at its meeting of April 15, 1948, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"Implementing its scientific research and development program both geographically and in new fields of endeavor, the Navy Department currently is expanding three comparatively new, permanent laboratories in California. Heretofore, the Navy Department's scientific centers have been concentrated in the eastern and eastern seaboard areas."
"Appointment of a preliminary committee on problems of industry mobilization and military production was announced recently by the Radio Manufacturers Association. The new RMA government liaison committee will secure information on government industry mobilization and military production plans from the National Security Resources Board, the Munitions Board, the Army, the Navy, and other agencies, as they affect the radio-electronic industry, and will provide for future co-ordinated action between the government and manufacturers of the industry."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Canada — Hydroelectric Developments. The completion of a $10,000,000 hydroelectric project at Campbell River, Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada, was celebrated on December 15, 1947, when the first of two 25,000-horsepower units was placed in operation. The plant was planned by the provincial government to furnish power for industrial projects and to provide electric current to rural areas. (Foreign Commerce Weekly)"
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited Co contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations. To the Editor: In a recent letter to the editor (EE, Mar '48, pp 311–12) J. B. Winther presented a scheme for obtaining transformation from three to two phase alternating current by utilizing a 3-phase wound-rotor induction motor with a locked rotor."
"“Who's Who in Engineering.” This sixth edition of the publication represents approximately 16,000 engineers, a 12 per cent greater coverage than the fifth edition. As in previous editions, those who are included are engineers of outstanding and acknowledged professional eminence, engineers of at least ten year's active practice (at least five years in charge of important engineering work), or teachers of engineering subjects for at least ten years (at least five years in charge of a major engineering course). Lewis Historical Publishing Company, Inc., New York, N. Y., 2,357 pages, 6¼ by 9¼ inches, $15."
"Brochure on Brines. “Calcium Chloride and Sodium Chloride Refrigeration Brines.” A brochure issued by the American Society of Refrigerating Engineers which presents in nontechnical language the properties, preparation, and corrosion characteristics of the two widely used brines. It is designated Application Data 40, and may be obtained from the American Society of Refrigerating Engineers headquarters, 40 West 40th Street, New York, N. Y., at 30 cents a copy."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The question of conservation is an especially important one in the United States today when we find ourselves faced with the possibility of a number of our natural resources giving out, and it is the engineer, whose responsibility it is to convert these materials into forms suitable for use by man, who has a special interest in the problem. This article stresses the urgency of the need for a program of conservation of our natural resources such as recently was endorsed by The Connecticut Technical Council, of which the author is chairman."
"In its general construction the induction-type frequency converter is identical with a standard slip ring motor. Connecting its primary to a line of frequency f1 sets up an air gap flux revolving at synchronous speed ns in respect to the primary winding, inducing in the secondary a voltage of a frequency f2 in direct proportion to the difference between shaft speed n and ns. Introducing the slip ±S = ±f2/f1 and the number of poles P, two convenient formulas for the selection of converters are obtained: $n=[1 \\mp S]n_{s} \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}} $ (1) and $n=1 \\mp f_2 = P_n/120 \\eqno{\\hbox{(2)}}$ (2)"
"Use of metal-tank rectifiers for converting alternating current to direct current has increased rapidly in the United States and Canada since 1925. Initial applications were in electric railway service and the rectifiers were of the multianode design. Direct potentials were at levels of 600, 1,500 and 3,000 volts, and capacities were of the order 1,000 to 3,000 kw. Development of single-anode mercury-arc rectifiers received a decided impetus in 1933 with the introduction of the ignitron. In the ignitron a new cathode-spot is established for each conducting cycle by passage of a current pulse through the ignitor — a small tapered rod of highly refractory material immersed in the mercury pool. The excitron differs from the ignitron in that a continuously excited cathode-spot is maintained on the mercury pool and a grid controls the starting of anode conduction electrostatically. Single anode tubes are made in both the sealed and pumped construction. Improved efficiency of the single-anode units extended the field of application for mercury-arc rectifiers to the industrial 250–600-volt levels."
"A most important link in the chain of electric energy supply always has been the watt-hour meter. Meters have been developed and improved during more than 50 years; now new material has made possible a design with magnetic suspension of the moving element."
"The potentialities of the electrical industry in shaping the destiny of America are considered by Philip Sporn in this Steinmetz Memorial lecture, 21st in a series of lectures presented to honor both the memory of Charles G. Steinmetz and the selected speaker. The lecture is sponsored by the AIEE Schenectady Section."
"These are models used in the General Electric Company's illuminating laboratory in Schenectady, N. Y. The one at the left is used to demonstrate the effects of different kinds of street lights on driver and pedestrian visibility, and on adjacent buildings. At the right is a tunnel model which is useful in studying the highly specialized problems of obtaining good tunnel lighting without glare in installations throughout the country"
"Many of the processes in the manufacture of wire and cable and tests of the finished product are amenable to control or study by recognized statistical methods. The scope of these applications is indicated in part by the following."
"The extreme competition in business today has advanced communications to a key position in all industry. The use of the modern reperforator switching system for patron telegraph service makes possible more efficient and reliable intercity communication within a company."
"Many electric circuits at all voltages have been overloaded at one time or another during the war. This trend toward operating transmission circuits beyond their economic rating from necessity is being extended seriously into the postwar period. At the same time all conductor materials have been in short supply."
"Starting with a few small offices more than 35 years ago, the use of the rotary automatic telephone system of the power-driven type has extended to practically all parts of the world. Today it is standard equipment for many of the leading administrations and telephone operating companies and now is being introduced for the first time into two of the major independent telephone systems in the United States. The initial installations in the United States involve the conversion from manual to automatic operation of a 15,000-line central office at Rochester, N. Y., in July 1948, and the main central office of about the same size at Lexington, Ky."
"The field of electronics may be divided into three segments: entertainment and education, communications, and industrial applications. Developments since the war in each of these areas of activity have been notable, but of particular interest is the rapid progress which has been made in the largest division of the field, broadcasting, and emphasis is placed on trends in frequency modulation and television."
"An ideal transformer may be defined as one in which primary and secondary coils are coupled perfectly, that is, primary and secondary “leakage reactances” are each zero, and where also the resistances of the primary and secondary coils are zero."
"The first experiments in radio communication with automobiles appear to have been made in 1921 by the Detroit police department. In 1927 the experiments were renewed and by April of 1928 the Detroit police had a system in successful operation. Experiments having proved the utility of the 30–40-megacycle band for car-to-land transmission; power utilities, traction companies, and others having use for emergency communication began making radiotelephone installations. An emergency radiotelephone service which for the first time provided connections to any telephone began operation in New York, N. Y., on December 5, 1940. In 1939, experiments indicated that frequency modulation held much promise and appeared to be superior to the conventional amplitude modulation employed up to that time for radiotelephone service from vehicles. Advanced techniques, overcrowding in the 30–40-megacycle band, and opening of the 152–162-megacycle band stimulated expansion."
"In reviewing some of Mexico's most significant technological problems (as observed in several years of study by the Armour Research Foundation), it is necessary to recognize that, in general, manufacturing industries are new to Mexico. Agriculture and the extraction of crude minerals have been the principal activities until fairly recent years, and are still among the most important in volume. The largest part of the conversion of Mexican raw materials into finished products has been done through exportation of the raw materials to other countries. The adverse economic effect of this is not the subject of the present article although it is the very heart of Mexico's industrialization problem. The pertinent fact is that under this procedure the manufacturing technology for these products has been applied and developed continuously in other countries such as the United States, but not appreciably in Mexico itself."
"The conversion of heat to electric energy by the phenomena of thermoelectricity has been considered for many years as a desirable means of obtaining pure d-c power which does not require moving parts and as much maintenance as presently exists, especially in the present types of generators that are driven by gasoline engines. As near as can be determined, the earliest observations of the thermoelectric effect were made by Seebeck in the early part of the 18th century. During the 18th century many inventors attempted to produce a thermocouple that could be incorporated into a generator that would be accepted generally by the public as a practical power source. In most instances, however, these designs resulted in conversion units that were wasteful of fuel and were large and cumbersome, as well as unreliable and expensive to construct. Toward the end of the 18th century, as rotating equipment for the production of a-c and d-c power became more universal, further attempts to perfect thermoelectric generators received less impetus. There seems no thermoelectric generator that has been developed that approaches the efficiency of present conversion units, such as motor generator sets and gasoline-engine-driven generators. A close examination of the past work has indicated that the approach to the solution of the problem was not always sound, mostly because the scientific tools with which the researchers worked were not as highly developed or as plentiful as they are today, the choice of materials not as large, and the understanding of material structures not as well understood. It is true, even today, that the understanding of material structure is not too clearly understood when working with materials other than metals, but is sufficiently well advanced to set up methods by which a scientific approach can be laid out."
"The grand coulee power development is a part of the Columbia Basin Project which is primarily an irrigation enterprise. The Grand Coulee dam raises the water level in the Columbia River over 300 feet, but a tremendous amount of power is required to raise water an additional 300 feet for irrigation purposes. This power requirement can be met largely by off-peak power developed at the Grand Coulee power plant consisting of two powerhouses which will have an ultimate installation of almost 2,000,000-kva generating capacity."
"Approximately 40 per cent of all fractional horsepower motors of one-eighth horsepower to one horsepower split phase and capacitor types made in 1947 were built with inherent overheat protective devices. Field requirements make it desirable that a higher percentage of motors be equipped with inherent overheat protectors. To accomplish this, protector standards and standardized methods of applying protectors must be developed."
"This review discusses the more important differences between various national standards and the International Electrotechnical Commission specifications. There is a decided need for unified international standards or “conversion factors” to equate existing standards."
"Although other accelerators can produce higher voltages, the Van de Graaff generator is still the work horse of nuclear physics because of the greater precision which it enables."
"Electrical models of linear partial differential equations may serve several practical purposes: 1. If the networks are physically constructed, they actually may solve the equations within an accuracy of, say, one to five per cent, which is acceptable in many engineering applications. 2. If the networks are constructed only on paper, they supply a visualizable schedule of operations for the numerical solution of the equations or for the improvement of the results found by the network analyzer or by other methods. 3. The networks may serve to check the accuracy and self-consistency of results arrived at by other methods, approximate or exact. 4. In many problems where the fields have boundaries of unusual shape, or where both fields and circuits are present and mutually are influencing each other, it is next to impossible to formulate the problem mathematically. In such cases the electrical model representation offers a practical means for formulating and solving the problem."
"The production of energy, isotopes, and fissionable material in nuclear reactors is described both verbally and mathematically. The interrelation between raw materials, the use of convertible isotopes, and the limitations on structural materials is discussed. Though, at first glance, the equations may seem abstruse, such analysis must be studied by engineers who desire a working knowledge of nucleonics. This is the eighth in a series of articles developed by the AIEE nucleonics committee; the entire series will be published in pamphlet form upon its completion."
"It is well known in the oil industry that no two oil wells are alike, therefore this article has been prepared to cover specific conditions affecting the application of electric power to the operation of producing wells, the selection of suitable electric equipment for this purpose, and the layout of electric power distribution systems in the oil fields."
"These are authors' digests of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE North Eastern District meeting, New Haven, Conn., April 28–30, 1948. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE proceedings or in AIEE transactions."
"Electric power distribution for small rubber and Plastic Plants; H. J. Finison (General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.), B. D. Morgan (Johnson and Johnson Company, New Brunswick, N. J.), R. S. Ferguson (Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio)."
"The financial chart mailed to members with bills for annual dues could not have been surprising to the overwhelming majority of the membership. It has been no secret that for the past two years the Institute, like many other organizations, has been plagued with inflationary trends. The Institute's monthly income and expense curves crossed late in 1946 and since that time, despite careful expense control, the Institute has been operating at a deficit."
"A regular meeting of the AIEE board of directors was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., April 23, 1948."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The electric power situation in the united States has been described as tight by Arthur M. Hill, chairman of the National Security Resources Board, in a recent statement summarizing the results of a staff study. The full text of Mr. Hill's statement was as follows: There is today practically no slack in the power systems. Spare capacity for possible breakdowns and future load growth is very much lower now than it was during the years preceding Pearl Harbor. Before the war this margin of surplus capacity was in excess of 20 per cent of the peak load. In 1947 the margin was reduced to 5 per cent of the peak. During 1948 and 1949 power generating capacity will not be sufficient to provide really adequate reserves. By 1950 the margins of capability appear adequate in most parts of the country and the situation will be further improved in 1951. The principal exception is the Pacific Northwest region where a progressively greater shortage of power capacity is indicated."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This first wallberg lecture inaugurates a continuous series of Lectures instituted by the University of Toronto to perpetuate the name of Emil Andrew Wallberg, Canadian engineer, industrialist, and philanthropist. Mr. Wallberg's achievements were associated particularly with the promotional and industrial aspects of engineering."
"Commercial land transportation embraces the transportation of passengers in urban communities and the intercity transportation of both freight and passengers. In the United States alone, this industry operates in excess of 175 million horsepower. No other industry offers the electrical manufacturers a commensurate opportunity for expanding the use of electric equipment."
"Different types of apparatus and methods used in microwave spectroscopy are discussed and various techniques of improving the sensitivity of detection are described."
"A new type of amplifying element known as a “transistor” which promises to have far reaching significance in electronics and electrical communication was demonstrated recently before members of the press by the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., New York, N. Y. Like a vacuum tube, the transistor can serve as an amplifier or as an oscillator, yet it contains no vacuum, glass envelope, grid, plate, or cathode."
"The mexico section of the AIEE at its District meeting held in San Antonio April 1946, presented a paper∗ analyzing the estimated requirements to supply the increasing demand of power in Mexico up to the end of 1949. It was explained then that it was urgent to increase the installed generating capacity by 53 per cent within the next four years and that new generating plants with a total capacity of 400,000 kw were required. As the installed capacity in 1945 was 756,000 kw, a total capacity of 1,156,000 kw should be available by the end of 1950."
"Delivery speed of a mile-a-minute on a tandem cold mill is no longer a steel industry dream for in May 1947 one of the fastest and the most powerful tin-plate tandem cold reduction mills in the world was placed in operation at the Weirton Steel Company, Weirton, W. Va. Capable of rolling steel at a top speed of more than 5,000-feet per minute, this mill marks a major development in the cold reduction process of rolling steel. Total capacity of the mill and reel motors is 17,550 horsepower, the largest amount of power ever concentrated in one tin-plate tandem mill."
"According to the National Safety Council, industry had a better safety record in 1947 than in 1946. The “accident frequency rate,” for all industries reporting, (number of disabling injuries per 1,000,000 man-hours) was 13.26 in 1947, ten per cent less than in 1946. The “accident severity rate,” (number of days lost per 1,000 manhours) was 1.23 in 1947, seven per cent lower than in 1946."
"The importance of industrial applications of radio-frequency heating is emphasized by the growth of this field which has expanded into a business with an eight million dollar annual volume. Thus, an economic analysis of some of the problems including cost data in specific industries is of interest."
"The words “technical education” have for me a wide democratic meaning, involving the development of technicians with a greater capacity to think, who are perfectly prepared to co-operate in everybody's well-being and to understand their own responsibilities to the public and to their country. Technical education has as its goal the unveiling of the student's own creative power. This is in opposition to what frequently is understood by the words “technical instruction or training” which suggest a restriction to personal development and a confinement to sets of instructions and practices which mechanize the individual and nullify his capacity to think."
"Presentation of the lamme medal for 1947 to Alexander Morton MacCutcheon (F '26) retired vice-president of the Reliance Electric and Engineering Company, Cleveland, Ohio, and a past president (1936–37) of the AIEE, was made June 23, 1948, during the AIEE summer general meeting at Mexico, Federal District, Mexico. Mr. MacCutcheon was honored for “his distinguished accomplishments in the development of motors for industrial needs, notably in the steel industry.” The medal has been awarded each year since 1928 to an engineer “who has shown meritorious achievement in the development of electrical apparatus or machinery.”"
"For the past 19 years the lamme Medal has been awarded annually to a member of the Institute for “meritorious achievement in the development of electrical apparatus or machinery.” On this 20th anniversary, the name of A. M. MacCutcheon is to be added to the 19 other illustrious names of men who have received this medal."
"As careers unalterably are preceded by the occurrence of “vital statistics” I would advise that the 1947 Lamme Medalist was born Alexander Morton MacCutcheon on December 31, 1881, in the family of a Methodist minister then residing in Stockport, N. Y."
"In a country where success is achieved under a system of free enterprise, a deep significance attaches to an engineering award bestowed, not by a dictator nor an hereditary monarch, but by a great democratic engineering organization followed the recommendation of a committee of the recipient's fellow engineers. This significance is deepened when the award has been established in memory of one of the greatest of engineers. An engineer so fortunate as to receive such an award hopes that the record of the factors which contributed to his success will be a source of inspiration to younger engineers. Since inspiring leadership is so important a factor, I was most fortunate for my first chief was Gano Dunn, an Edison Medalist and a past president of the Institute. My second chief was Clarence Cohens, a founder and early president of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association. These men inspired all who served under them."
"Electrically the largest transformer ever built by the Westinghouse Electric Corporation, this 110,000-kva 3-phase 142-ton transformer was shipped recently to the Buffalo Niagara Electric Corporation for installation at that company's number 2 plant of the C. R. Huntley steam-electric generating stations near the city of Buffalo, N. Y."
"Microwave development has brought with it many related devices, one class of which is circuit elements having the property of attenuating or absorbing microwaves. Investigation of the microwave properties of a variety of solids led to the application of electrically in-homogeneous ceramic and plastic materials such as silicon carbide dispersed in porcelain, and graphite dispersed in phenol formaldehyde."
"In 93 per cent of mexican territory, irrigation is required to insure agricultural production. In the remaining seven per cent of the nation's territory, rainfall is abundant and sufficiently well distributed to assure enough water to cultivate the land, but here costly sanitary and drainage works are necessary."
"The development of high-energy accelerators has been the forerunner of steady advancement in nuclear research. This study of four basically different kinds of machines for producing high-energy charged particles will give the reader a basis for more thorough understanding of other current literature about atomic experimentation. This is the ninth of a series of articles developed by the AIEE nucleonics committee; the entire series will be published in pamphlet form upon its completion."
"Strong experimental evidence for the existence of a new particle was presented in the form of a photograph of cosmic ray phenomena taken in the Swiss Alps in Europe at a symposium on cosmic rays held at California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif., according to the New York Times (June 21, 1948). The symposium was held in honor of Doctor Robert A. Millikan, dean of American physicists and winner of the Nobel prize for his measurement of the charge of the eleclron. The photograph, shown by Doctor Louis Leprince-Ringuet, French physicist of the University of Paris, indicates the existence of a fundamental particle with a mass greater than 750 and possibly as high as 900. The new particle belongs to the family of cosmic ray products known as mesons or mesotrons. These mesons are believed to be the result of the interaction between the primary cosmic rays originating in interstellar space and the nuclei of atoms in our atmosphere."
"Feeding 3-phase currents to the slip rings of induction motors at slip frequency for speed regulation or phase advancing (power factor improvement), or at any other frequency for other purposes is used frequently and the principle is well known. Another possible application of this principle is that of testing induction motors under full current loading conditions, while running at full speed, with the stator supplied at full voltage and frequency, and without the use of any kind of loading machine. This results in a large saving of energy because the run is taken at near zero power factor for primary and secondary supply."
"One method used in the selection of circuit breakers for application to low-voltage a-c circuits is based on the assumption of “bolted” faults. Some engineers, however, believe that these fault currents never are reached in practice. An extensive series of tests shows a distinct need to clarify the situation in so far as the effect of arc drop is concerned."
"The pessimist: there is nothing perfect in this imperfect world, and this universal truth is well brought out by the imperfect machines of electrical engineering. Our conductors are imperfect, giving rise to copper loss."
"A brief survey of the history of paper making in Mexico takes us back to the civilization existing before Cortés. The original races Mayas, Nahoas, Zapotecas, and Tarascas, made sheets of paper from “cactus” and “amacuahuitl.” At the beginning of the conquest, the Spaniards used the paper they brought with them, and later when they needed greater quantities, they installed a small paper mill close to the “Gran Tenoxtitlán.” Later, in the colonial period, the first printing shop in America was installed and during the years 1550 to 1600 the different monastic orders printed more than 100 religous works on paper coming from Spain."
"The steel industry has been quick to recognize the advantages of using electricity in many of its manufacturing processes. The progress made along these lines during the last 25 years indicates that this trend will continue."
"The institute, i am happy to say, is doing exceedingly well considering the times. In the last five years we have increased our membership more than 40 per cent and now have 28,400 of the Associate, Member, and Fellow grades and 14,000 of the Student grade. This phenomenal growth has made it necessary to change our organizational setup. The board of directors has recognized the need for these changes and carried them out, but I feel there is still more work to be done to keep abreast of the times. I shall mention a few suggestions briefly."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The board of directors of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents herewith to the membership its 64th annual report, for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1948. It includes a general balance sheet and other statements showing the financial condition of the Institute at the close of the fiscal year and a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, more detailed information having been published from month to month in electrical engineering."
"“Unifying the engineering profession is important — whether unification is accomplished through the avenue of the National Society of Professional Engineers, a national organization of local engineering societies, or a brand new organization, does not matter,” explained AIEE Vice-President (District 5) T. G. LeClair (F '40) to 22 delegates of engineering organizations in Milwaukee, Wis., May 27. Mr. LeClair was invited to Milwaukee by the affiliate societies council of the Engineers' Society of Milwaukee to explain AIEE's studies on unification of the engineering profession."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Institute members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The interest of both european and american engineers in the engineering practices of the other group has been intensified by the part American engineers will play in the reconstruction of Europe. Both authors have studied the engineering techniques in the various European countries and in the United States and are well qualified to summarize the differences which exist."
"Superior operating characteristics may be obtained in contact rectifiers and magnetic amplifiers by the use of alloys having rectangular hysteresis loops. Such loops may be produced by drastic cold rolling and final special annealing, or by heat treating in a magnetic field."
"The textile industry, being one of the oldest of industries, was so highly developed mechanically when electricity was still in its infancy that for many years the industry did not use electric apparatus for anything except as a source of prime motive power. Within comparative recent years, however, developments in machinery and processes have been rapid. With the new machinery and processes it is natural that many electrical means are employed to perform functions previously performed mechanically. There are a number of basic electric tools that are now employed in various combinations to get many desired results in machine operation and performance. It is the purpose of this article to list and describe a number of these and also to show how they are used to get improved textile machine performance."
"Induction and dielectric heating have assumed in recent years an important position in industrial heating; dielectric heating more recently than induction. These unique forms of heating, once responsible only for power losses in electric equipment and machinery, offer many advantages over conventional means of heating by convection, conduction, and radiation. The field of application is very broad because induction heating is suited to metals, particularly those that have a high magnetic permeability, and dielectric heating may be accomplished in a large class of thermally insulating materials which at low frequencies are also electrically insulating."
"The pattern mostly used for laying out balanced fractional-slot windings is that for maximum distribution factor of the main wave. From this pattern, a large number of other balanced patterns can be obtained by a cyclic shifting of coils from one phase to the other inside the same repeatable group. The distribution factor of the main wave of these latter patterns is always smaller than that of the former pattern. The distribution factors of the harmonics are partially smaller, partially larger than those of the former pattern, so that the values of the harmonic (differential) leakage reactance of the different patterns do not differ much from each other. The advantage of the pattern with cyclic shift of coils inside the same repeatable group is that it makes possible to reduce the distribution factors of one or several undesirable electromotive force or magnetomotive force harmonics. The aim of this article is to show that the same effect of reduction of certain harmonics can be achieved by shifting of repeatable groups with respect to each other. This method of reduction of harmonics has the advantage that it is applicable to lap as well as to wave windings while the cyclic shift of coils is limited to lap windings. Further, the shift between the repeatable groups, necessary to achieve desirable results, is seen immediately, while with the cyclic shift of coils inside the same repeatable group the trial-and-error method is to be applied. On the other hand, the shifting of repeatable groups reduces the maximum possible number of parallel circuits."
"The basic elements of any measurement system may be classified into three functional groups known as primary detectors, intermediate means, and end devices. By classifying the primary detectors for both electrical and non-electrical quantities, convenient selection of a suitable detector may be made when the quantity to be measured together with the range over which it will vary is known."
"The hydroelectric resources of mexico are conditioned by two essential factors, namely, available water and waterfalls. The mean annual surface water runoff of the country's principal rivers is 183,000 million cubic meters brought about by irregular rainfall which occurs for the most part during the summer months. More than 75 per cent of the annual rainfall occurs during these months and this causes the runoff of the rivers to be erratic, making it impossible to take advantage of it to develop power constantly. Reservoirs invariably are reqired to regulate the flow but only 75 per cent to 80 per cent of the total of such stored up water can be utilized as a result of losses occurring through evaporation, spills, and so forth."
"The design objective on a modern 150-kw transmitter, 540 to 1,500 kc per second, was a highly efficient, compact transmitter with fine performance. Ultimate operation and maintenance by personnel of limited technical skill was considered carefully."
"The operation of four principal starting devices now in use and a fifth phase-angle eddy-current relay is described. An analysis is given of the characteristics of each device and its effect on the starting characteristics of a single-phase induction motor of the split-phase or capacitor-start type."
"The metal fabricating industry long has recognized the resistance-welding machine as a desirable metal-joining tool and owing to the tremendous increase in the use of these machines and their processes during the past several years, more engineering information is desirable, not only to the resistance-welding manufacturers, but the electrical utilities and the users of resistance-welding equipment."
"After a half century of operation and growth, the Southern California Edison Company is changing the frequency of its system from 50 cycles to 60 cycles per second. Such a change, involving 700,000 customers, requires detailed advance planning and organization, engineering studies of all equipment that is sensitive to changes of frequency, acquisition of stocks of material, and training of personnel. With the assistance of five contractors, the company expects to complete the change on schedule in October 1948 after two years of actual conversion work. In this instance, many items of equipment could be used at the new frequency with only minor or no change, and the system henceforth can operate at the generally accepted United States standard frequency of 60 cycles."
"Adequate, secure, and economical electric power service is a vital part of our present-day industrial economy. The solution to the problem of selecting this service, in many of the varied forms of industrial and commercial establishment, normally is found in the selection of central utility service, the supply of which generally has been entrusted to central electrical utility companies who enjoy virtual monopolies in their respective territories."
"Electrical developments have contributed materially to the efficient operation of pulp and paper mills throughout the United States. This can be appreciated readily when consideration is given to the extensive use of power throughout the industry. In the year 1947, the industry required some 14 billion kilowatt-hours to produce 21 million tons of paper."
"Health physics, the new branch of radiology devoted to protection of personnel, is still in the experimental and evaluation stage. However, it already has a remarkable service record which has been achieved through continuous vigilance and careful co-ordination of analysis and control. This is the tenth of a series of articles developed by the AIEE nucleonics committee; the entire series will be published in pamphlet form upon its completion."
"The modified slip test permits a detailed investigation of machine constants under more reliable conditions and embodies several desirable features in the special field of power laboratory instruction."
"The a-c wave windings which are used mostly in rotors of induction motors are “modified” d-c wave windings whose winding pitch is changed after each p winding elements (p = number of pole pairs). These modified wave windings are balanced, but they can be applied to integral-slot and (integral+1/2)-slot windings only. The standard d-c wave winding is not used for wound rotors of induction motors for it seldom is balanced. The aim of this article is to give a method of laying out balanced wave windings for any fractional number of slots per pole per phase for which the fractional-slot lap winding is balanced. For this purpose the usual chart method is to be abandoned and the slot-star of the winding used instead."
"Power system overvoltages may result from lightning, switching, faults, loss of load, and other causes. An understanding of the phenomena associated with all causes of overvoltages is necessary to control the magnitude and to co-ordinate the protection and insulation levels of the system. Lightning may be considered the chief source of high overvoltages. Much attention and study has been and continues to be given to all lightning phenomena and means of protection. Next and of increasing relative importance are the overvoltages produced by faults and switching surges. Considerable study has been given this subject during the past 25 years and it is opportune to review the literature on power system overvoltages produced by faults and switching surges which includes results obtained from field tests; the phenomena that control cumulative oscillations and restrikes; and the results obtained by the miniature system of analysis which show the influence of grounding, arrester location, and circuit breaker interrupter restriking. Such a review prompts a number of conclusions which indicate the progress and understanding of the subject to date and which also may serve as a guide to future investigations."
"The third decade in the growth of modern network theory, the decade of maturity, is considered in this review of the advances in network theory evolved over the past ten years. New types of networks developed during the war are included."
"It is desirable to review periodically the trend in practice of different types of equipment for the benefit of those who may not be entirely familiar with recent developments in the industry. The following pertinent facts seem to stand out so far as switchgear and circuit breaker practices are concerned."
"Because of the universal interest of all engineers in safety in aircraft, this article presents a summary of the conference on aircraft safety sponsored by the committee on air transportation at the 1947 AIEE winter general meeting in New York. It is to be noted that a number of conflicting points of view were expressed at this conference, which are summarized herein. Further comments are invited."
"United states navy scientists have developed a novel all-electric camera capable of accurately “magnifying” time four million times. This Zarem camera, invented by Doctor A. M. Zarem, heads the list of a series of ingenious precision time measuring instruments and devices used in photographic “microtime technique” that were announced at the Navy's dedication of the new Michelson Laboratory at the Naval Ordnance Test Station, Inyokern, Calif."
"The advantages of pipe lines for the overland transportation of petroleum and its refined products have been demonstrated thoroughly, with more than 85,000 miles of trunk crude oil and products lines now operating in the United States of America alone, and construction of new lines proceeding at a rate limited only by the availability of pipe. Electric power is used increasingly for pipe line operation, because of its increasing availability and a widening appreciation of its advantages from the standpoints of investment in station equipment, maintenance and attendance costs, reliability, and effectiveness of control."
"48–144 — aco — psychotechnical methods employed to Select Personnel for Industries; David W. Mehl (A '45). This paper deals with the use of well-known and approved psychotechnical methods to determine the fitness of applicants applying for positions in industry and other lines of business by testing them for desirable characteristics. The experience which a telephone company in Mexico has had in conducting these tests with applicants is explained fully and numerous examples given of the various tests employed. Stress is placed upon the satisfactory results obtained by certain tests and the disuse of other tests. The combination of two different methods is explained and its usefulness clarified. The economical feature of the tests is mentioned and how the tests enable the company to choose and pick out desirable applicants from those who have had little or no experience. It is pointed out that results obtained have brought about a far better understanding between employees and management and between the employees themselves."
"Together we begin a new institute year — a year in which each of us advances his contributions of the past year into the year at hand for great mutual good."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"On february 11, 1948, the 101st anniversary of the birth of Thomas Alva Edison, the Edison laboratories at West Orange, N. J., formally were opened to the public by the Thomas Alva Edison Foundation, an organization which was established early in 1947 by leaders in science, education, and industry to carry on in the spirit of progress exemplified by Edison. Under the direction of Vice-Admiral Harold D. Bowen, United States Navy (retired), wartime chief of the Office of Naval Research, the foundation's program includes, in addition to the preservation of Edison's laboratory, the establishment there of the Edison Center for Invention, Discovery, and Research, and the restoration of the nation-wide scholastic competition which was discontinued after Edison's death in 1931."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The objectives of an engineering education can be realized fully only when it is recognized that these objectives, in common with those of all education, are not merely the development of technical abilities, but the development of the man mentally, morally, and physically. Through his scientific and technological contributions, the engineer ably fulfills his duty as an engineer, but he must be trained to assume a further responsibility — his responsibility to the society of which he is a member."
"Mexico's industrial development should be carried out on bases that would take advantage of the peculiarities of the people and of the country. Emphasis should be placed in the production of agricultural products of durable nature or of immediate industrial use, in the production of refined minerals and of chemical substances in bulk. The type of manual workers and of technicians available are adapted to this type of manufacture much better than to manufacture in large scale of articles of intricate design that require rigid inspection and uniformity."
"In the 30 years since radio first took a regular place in the United States' telephone plant, its use has spread into many parts of the telephone network, making possible world wide telephony and other extensions of service."
"High-voltage transmission lines may be re-energized successfully following faults by correct application of high-speed relaying, according to recent experience on 114-kv lines."
"Production of the higher grades of wood pulps requires that the bark be removed from the logs as the initial process in preparing the wood for manufacture into pulp. Phenomenal savings in pulp wood and labor are being realized by Pacific Northwest pulp and paper mills using full-sized-log debarking machines, capable of debarking logs 6 to 80 inches in diameter, by 26 feet long. The success gained with this latest Bellingham barker has resulted in marked attention being given to additional installations of this design in both large and small capacity. The older wasteful methods of debarking small cut-up sections of the tree are becoming obsolete."
"The art of telemetering has enjoyed a steady development for 30 years. The increased number of power system interconnections and the increased operating efficiency that is to be gained by use of automatic load control warrant careful study of the circuits that are used to transmit the required information. It is expected that as telemetering systems expand more multicircuit carrier channels will be used. Protective relay and communication circuits will be combined with telemetering circuits. Space radio probably will be added to provide trunk line service for communication, telemetering, supervisory, and protective relay control in locations that cannot be served economically by other means."
"Dependence of airplanes on static-free radio reception gives critical importance to the process of electrostatic charging by friction with ice crystals and snow particles, which produces corona discharge and resulting radio interference. Several methods have been proposed for the elimination of static with varying results. One, described here, is neutralization of the charge by artificially activating negative corona discharges of a type that does not interfere with radio reception."
"The art of hydraulic turbine design never stands still but always progresses. In recent years major emphasis has been on the materials of construction and on such features of design as will reduce maintenance work and costly outages in the field."
"The economic location of steam-electric generating stations is receiving intensified study, not only because of the tremendously increasing demand for electric energy, but because of changes that have taken place and still are occurring in the relative effect of certain primary controlling factors. These include changes in the relative effects of 1. Location and cost of alternate fuel supplies. 2. Cost of transporting alternate fuels. 3. Cost of transmission of electric energy."
"The constantly increasing demands for power, together with the increasing cost of fuel, have emphasized the desirability of investigating power generation in industrial plants which have need for large quantities of process steam. Careful individual analysis of a plant is required in order that the possibilities may be explored."
"Formal engineering education tends to specialize the engineer. Good reading is an excellent way to make him a well-rounded individual."
"The columbia basin project includes the grand Coulee dam and power plant, the Grand Coulee pumping plant, and about one million acres of irrigable land for which irrigation water will be made available. The power plant will comprise an ultimate installation of 18 main generating units and 3 station service generating units which will be capable of developing 2,300,000 kw."
"This last article of a series developed by the AIEE nucleonics committee is concerned mainly with a discussion of the various technical and engineering problems which arise in the process of transferring the energy of the fission reaction into heat in the steam or gas to be used in the heat engine. The purpose of these articles has been to furnish the reader with an over-all picture of recent developments in nucleonics and allied fields. The entire series∗ is scheduled for early publication in pamphlet form."
"Grand coulee power plant at coulee dam, Wash., is the largest hydroelectric power plant in the world and will have an ultimate installed capacity of over 2.3 million kw. This unprecedented concentration of generating capacity presents a real and worthwhile problem regarding the selection, design, and development of the most desirable bussing arrangement. It was concluded early in the studies of the various possible bussing arrangements that the three performance factors which should be given major consideration were: (a). Circuit-breaker interrupting capacity. (b). Stability. (c). Ease of operation and flexibility."
"It has been found that the inception point of ionization or corona within electrical components, especially solid dielectric cables, should exceed the normal operating voltage of the component in order to eliminate deleterious physical and electrical effects associated with ionization. Most of the equipment so far developed to determine ionization point has been designed individually for specific laboratory applications and, consequently, presented certain shortcomings for general purpose and production use. Commercial equipment now has been developed to overcome such objections and has been applied successfully in laboratory and production testing. Destructive ionization occurs at voids or air spaces within the component or dielectric and since evidence necessary for a critical analysis of this action generally is destroyed through the mechanism of breakdown, the need for a method to detect voids by a nondestructive and practical means is self-evident."
"Motor standards are a very useful tool in the field of motor application. Study and knowledge of the standards will assist the purchasers and users of electric motors in doing a proper application job and in securing successful and uninterrupted operation."
"The 500-kv experimental station of chevilly, near Paris, France, has been built with a view to making a close study of the behavior of the lines to be used when building up the French 400-kv system. Present economic conditions in France do not favor the use of copper conductors, in consequence two solutions have been considered for the equipment of these lines: 1. Utilization of large diameter (1.58 to 1.97 inches) “expanded aluminum-cable steel-reinforced (ACSR)” conductors. 2. Use of a bundle of two conventional ACSR (1.04-inch-diameter) conductors, the total cross section of which is equal to the economic section."
"The transmission system of the bonneville power Administration transmits power from the Grand Coulee project to three major load centers in the states of Washington and Oregon. The project will have an ultimate peaking capability of about 2,300,000 kva, which will result in the largest concentration of electric power from one hydroelectric dam in the world. The immediate problem of transmitting this large amount of power from Grand Coulee to the load centers is to a certain extent overshadowed by the fact that the Columbia River Basin has a possible economical development of over 10,000,000 kw, and whatever circuit arrangements are made at Grand Coulee will influence the planning and design of the other future generating stations and transmission systems."
"A single-tube control circuit has been devised which had important application in delay circuits for radar use. This article, in which the circuit is described, was awarded the AIEE Student Branch paper prize for the academic year 1946–1947."
"A straight metallic bar, of uniform section, maintained at a constant uniform temperature, has flowing through it at constant density a steady, continuous current of magnitude I. The electric equipotential surfaces are the plane sections of the bar, perpendicular to its edges."
"A new technique for measuring the field strength and deducing the ion density about a wire in corona is needed. One such new method is measurement of a-c corona directly with a crystal galvanometer connected between two probe screens. The net space charge density was derived from the field strength curves in a single mathematical step, using Poisson's equation. The amount of charge present may be shown quantitatively by using a special function of the charge density. This is the total net charge contained in a cylindrical shell, one centimeter long, one centimeter thick, and of a parametric radius R. This total net charge is designated by Q. It is a convenient notation, for Q does not vary as a cloud of ions moves radially, but can change only by diffusion, recombination, or the introduction of new ions."
"The vast colorado-big thompson transmountain water diversion project for irrigation and power development has for its operating heart the Granby pumping plant. This plant is of special interest due to its size, its unusual construction, its related storage and diversion facilities, and its key position with respect to a large hydroelectric power development."
"High-frequency induction and dielectric heating may be applied to many processes, but may not be justified. To study applications, one utility company has established a laboratory and works with customers to meet their needs."
"Polarity of device coil connections is important in preventing coil corrosion. Replies to AIEE questionnaires indicated that there was no trouble resulting from coil corrosion where the negative connection was used, while more than 50 per cent of the companies using the positive connection reported corrosion trouble. As a result of this report, the AIEE Standards committee took action as reported in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, December 1947, page 1250."
"Problems confront every electrical utility in maintaining existing connections in electric conductors, and in selecting from the many designs and materials available for new construction. Good mechanical characteristics of conductor joints and clamps can be assured by careful attention to design, selection of materials, and workmanship. The attainment of good and lasting electrical characteristics is evidently more difficult because most failures have been attributed to poor electrical conductivity. On an industry-wide basis, this problem warrants extensive research."
"The inspection of circuits by pulse reflection methods is well known to communications engineers. In particular this technique has been used in inspecting high-frequency coaxial telephone and television lines. The “Linascope” is an electronic instrument for locating faults on open-wire telephone and transmission lines. The unit generates repetitively a short duration pulse which is fed to the circuit under test. The pulse travels along the line at a speed nearly equal to that of light (186 miles per millisecond). Echoes arise from faults, junctions, terminations, and other impedance irregularities, and return to the Linascope terminals at the same speed."
"Increasing interest of electrical engineers in mathematics has stimulated conferences on the subject at recent AIEE meetings. Presentations made during the 1948 winter general meeting have led to the preparation of a 3-part series, which will be made available in pamphlet form following its completion in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING. In this first part of the series, reasons and methods for fitting functions to data are outlined and the degree of confidence that may placed in data is discussed. Subsequent parts of the series will discuss the method of Graeco-Latin squares and the dimensional analysis of partial differential equations."
"Approximately 28 single track or 17.5 route miles of electrified railroad constructed for the specific purpose of hauling 30 million tons of relatively low grade copper-bearing ore between the open pit mine at Bingham Canyon, Utah, and the two copper concentrators located at Garfield, Utah, were placed in operation on May 1, 1948."
"It is believed that there is a need of a general telemetering method that can be applied to any one of a wide variety of telemetering problems. There is a need for some basic circuit or device that could be adapted readily to the metering of flow in a remote gas main, temperature in the cylinder wall of a remote aircraft, the current in a remote alternator, or the remote indication of any one of numerous measureable quantities of engineering interest. If the engineer merely had to adapt a basic telemetering device through minor modifications, the design of a device or circuit for a new telemetering problem might be simplified considerably."
"When i tell my friends who are not engineers of our Institute, and of our 30,000 corporate members and of our 14,000 Student Members studying electrical engineering in the engineering schools of our land, and of our Sections throughout our land, and of our Student Branches in 127 engineering schools, and of our technical committees of over 2,000 members, and of our membership reaching around the world, they marvel. They ordinarily think of us as associated with blue prints, and as men apart."
"G. Ross Henninger, editor of Electrical Engineering since January 1, 1933, has resigned from the AIEE headquarters staff to assume the title of editor and director of publications for the Illuminating Engineering Society, New York, NY, USA, effective October 1, 1948 (for complete biographical details, see page 1014). Appointed as Electrical Engineering's new editor to succeed Mr. Henninger is Charles S. Rich, who has been secretary of the AIEE technical program committee since 1930. Coincidental with these changes, W.R. MacDonald, Jr., associate editor, has resigned from the staff because of ill health. Biographical sketches of both Mr. Rich and Mr. MacDonald will appear in the November issue."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Final plans have been completed for the 1948 National Electronics Conference which will be held at the Edgewater Beach Hotel,. Chicago, Ill., November 4–6, 1948. A comprehensive technical program has been arranged covering such major fields of interest as new materials, sound measurement and recording, servomechanisms, electronic instrumentation, communications, new tube developments, microwaves, television, computers, industrial applications, management of research, electronic circuits, and magnetic amplifiers and antennas. A list of the technical papers to be presented is given in the following. Further information concerning the conference may be obtained from Doctor R. R. Buss, Secretary, care of Electrical Engineering Department, Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill."
"News, events, meetings and announcements from other societies that may be of interest to electrical engineers, practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Institute members and subscribers are invited co contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Had it not been for the efforts of men like Davenport, De Jacobi, and Page, the benefits of the electric motor would not be enjoyed today. It is the purpose of this article to trace briefly the early history of the science of electro-motion and, in particular, to bring to light and to honor the inventor of the electric motor."
"The solutions to many steady-state d-c generator problems would be less complex if there were a simple yet accurate means for expressing analytically the machine's electromagnetic characteristics. Particularly, problems of voltage and load control and certain aspects of dynamo design might be approached with greater certainty if trial and error processes could be abandoned for a direct mathematical investigation. The purpose of this article is to present the development of such an analysis. This mathematical tool has been applied successfully to several aircraft generators."
"The solution of numerous inductive co-ordination problems involving rural power and communication circuits has indicated that generators, transformers, and other equipment used on rural power lines should be designed to generate as little harmonic current as practicable. Noisy circuits caused by induction from power lines cannot, by any means, be cleared up by the telephone people without the co-operation of the power suppliers. In general, power equipment containing iron in its magnetic circuit generates voltages whose frequencies are multiples or harmonics of the fundamental frequency. The magnitude and frequency of these harmonic voltages depend on the type of magnetic material and the portion of the magnetization curve on which the equipment is operating."
"Diode circuits may be analyzed by a basic method less complex than methods now in use. The nonlinear tube characteristic is analyzed and an equivalent circuit is suggested to which most ordinary applications can be reduced. The method may be applied to various diode and multielement tube circuits, such as a diode modulator."
"The large increase in installed power of the airplane electric system since just before World War II, and the greater dependence which is placed on it for safe operation of the airplane, have directed much thought to the subject of system protection. As a result of this, methods and equipment are now available for effective protection of the generator circuits up to the main bus. In most cases this protection makes use of the current-balance principle for detecting ground faults. Generator overvoltage protection usually is included also. Equipment for protection of load feeders has not kept pace, in general, with the growth of the system, and the subject of main bus protection practically has been neglected. Several means are available for increasing the safety of the main bus, but there is need for development of better bus protection methods and devices."
"More than 25 years have passed since the discovery of the properties of copper oxide for rectifying alternating current. During the intervening time much has been learned of the characteristics of the rectifier, and improved manufacturing methods have made possible a continually widening circle of application. From small-current low-voltage rectifiers, applications have grown to include extremes in voltage and current, small rectifiers for use in instruments, and voltage limiters and modulators for use in communication work."
"In order to be suitable for use as an aircraft control element a polarized relay must have characteristics enabling it to meet environmental conditions and performance requirements. The characteristics of a currently used polarized relay having single-pole double-throw normally open contacts, and an inherently well balanced floating armature supported by a torsional spring, may be summarized as follows: 1. Sensitivity. Relays have been produced requiring an input of 40 microwatts (1.3 ampere-turns) to close the contacts. Somewhat less sensitivity has been found preferable for many applications."
"The problem of locating faults on high-voltage transmission lines is an old one, but is becoming more important as distances grow longer and more lines are built through isolated mountain and desert areas."
"In this second part of a 3-part series, a method is described whereby time and effort in examining problems involving a number of variables may be reduced greatly by selecting only those combinations of greatest significance. It has been applied for four, five, and six variables, provided the number of values of each variable is one less than the number of variables."
"Testing of ordnance often requires the recording of high-speed steady-state and transient phenomena both in the field and the laboratory. The portable multichannel magnetic-string-type oscillograph is admirably suited for recording many signals simultaneously, but does not possess the high-frequency response, the high-input impedance, or the high sensitivity often required."
"The bunker hill mine ore body near Kellogg, Idaho, started as a prospect hole high on a mountainside in 1886. Since then the electrical development of the mine has followed closely the technological development of the electrical industry."
"As liquid dielectrics, hydrocarbon oils have many desirable characteristics and one serious disadvantage — the fact that they are combustible. Although not as generally excellent as the oils, the askarels also are suitable for this use and, in addition, are fireproof."
"The object of this study is to present a new unique way of controlling edge effect and thus obtain the true dielectric breakdown strength of electric cable insulating papers, to compare the dielectric strength of paper so determined with the dielectric strength of other materials and with the dielectric strength of built-up paper insulation, and to compare the dielectric strength of structures composed of saturated paper insulation with the intrinsic dielectric strength of the saturated paper."
"A search for a simple and inexpensive method of obtaining high voltages of direct current led to the conclusion that the magnetic transformer is a particular case of a more general type of phenomenon, namely, “electrical transformation,” and that other types of electric transformers are possible. The principle of electrical transformation is stated in a tentative form as follows: When electric energy transforms reversibly into another form of energy, electrical transformation is possible."
"Development of relaying to improve fault isolation in power systems has led to many devices and schemes. The more commonly used relay characteristics and their underlying principles of operation are summarized in this article for convenient reference and comparison."
"Standing wave patterns in an x-band wave guide are reproduced on a cathode ray tube in a new automatic standing wave indicator developed at the Naval Research Laboratory. The essential units of the instrument are a novel motor-driven “reciprocating probe,” conventional high-gain audio amplifier, and a special cathode ray indicator. The reciprocating probe, shown in Figure 1, is basically similar to a conventional slotted line probe, although a motor has been added to make probe travel automatic. As the probe travels automatically back and forth, an associated potentiometer arrangement generates a horizontal sweep voltage for the indicator. The combination of this horizontal sweep and the amplified detector output allows reproduction of the wave guide standing wave pattern on the cathode ray tube. Measurements of standing wave ratio are made directly from the cathode ray picture through a calibrated screen, and indications of relative phase of the pattern are read from a calibrated dial. This type of presentation allows unusually rapid adjustment of radio-frequency components since effects of adjustments are instantly apparent. A number of novel techniques are made possible with the instrument."
"Carbon-pile voltage regulator concepts are based on controlling the pressure on carbon plates stacked and arranged so that pressure may be applied at right angles to their surfaces. Varying this pressure by predetermined means varies the resistances of the stack. D-c generator field strength often is controlled by the resistance of such a stack to provide output voltage control."
"The lubrication of graphite by water vapor is now well known. Many other condensible vapors, however, have been found equally effective. Demonstrations occurred during the high-altitude testing of aircraft brushes during the war. It was found that certain solvents from the freshly painted interiors of cold chambers provided vapor lubrication for brushes operating under dry conditions, and brush dusting which normally would have occurred was prevented. The easily condensible vapors as a class, excepting corrosive substances, thus gradually became recognized as lubricants for carbon brushes."
"A simplified procedure for the calculation of short-circuit currents was presented in earlier reports1, 2 which has been found to be generally satisfactory. The procedure is intended for general use by the industry as a simplified method of approximating the magnitude of fault currents, however, other more rigorous methods should be used when required. This report brings the previous reports up to date."
"In this report the distribution subcommittee of the AIEE transmission and distribution committee has attempted to study and analyze distribution system design practices in the United States and to point out the main reasons for these practices, as well as noting definitely indicated trends and the reasons for them. The report is not intended as an original study of the economic aspects of the problem, but it is hoped that, by presenting a broad picture of American distribution system practices, individual work on such problems will be stimulated and the results of this work will be presented to the Institute in the form of papers."
"Analysis of nonlinear control systems with the Analog Computer; G. D. McCann, C. H. Wilts (California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif.)."
"I always have said “the sections are the Institute.” It is in the Section that each member resides as he progresses his electrical engineering life, activities, and contributions. Here he associates with his fellow engineers. Here he makes his electrical engineering friendships. And here he extends his friendships to other engineers as opportunity affords for joint meetings with brother engineering and scientific society groups."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"For many years mathematicians have been trying to find a satisfactory way of defining the area of a curved surface. This apparently easy task is full of hidden difficulties; for instance, if one defines area of a surface in a manner analogous to the definition of length of a curved line it turns out that every curved surface has infinite area — which is certainly an unsatisfactory state of affairs. Of the dozen or more definitions of area that have been proposed in the past 50 years, one given by the great mathematician Lebesgue in 1902 has attracted the most attention and has given the most reasonable answers to questions about surface area."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Institute members and subscribers are invited co contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The problem of long-range planning for power supply is one which is generally recognized by planning engineers, and one which must take into account a number of factors ranging from population changes to expected sources of supply. This article reviews and considers some of the most pertinent data, and an attempt is made to arrive at some general conclusions regarding such planning in the light of present-day conditions."
"Shipboard electrical installations present special problems for insulating materials that may not exist in shore installations. As naval vessels necessarily are built to a high degree of compartmentation requiring forced ventilation and also have large capacity power plants installed in relatively small spaces, there is perhaps more insulation per cubic foot of available engine room space than exists in land installations. Many naval vessels are complete cities in themselves. An electric fire in a surface ship is extremely dangerous — an electric fire in a submarine is a hazard. For this reason, all electrical-insulating materials used in naval vessels are screened at present carefully to determine their suitability at elevated temperatures and the effects of noxious gases produced on thermal decomposition of these materials. In order to determine the effects of temperature and operation time upon the production of noxious gases from silicone-insulated rotating equipment under condition of simulated submarine service, the Naval Medical Research Institute set out to find the answer to this problem for the Bureau of Ships."
"Magnetic field patterns may be “seen” through the use of specially constructed gaseous diodes which produce luminous ionized beams that follow the direction of the flux paths."
"The young graduate choosing engineering as a career must select not only a particular engineering field and a specialty within that field, but he also must decide the type of engineering work for which his interests and aptitudes best fit him — be it research, development, planning, design, construction, sales, or production."
"At high altitudes a d-c arc may move under the influence of an external magnetic field in a direction opposite to that in which it moves at sea level. This graduate student prize-winning article discusses this anomaly, explaining it as a surface phenomenon."
"One of the most important limitations to the capacity of electric machinery is the temperature of the windings. The more efficient the ventilation system can be made, the greater will be the output which can be obtained from a given amount of material, while still maintaining the temperature within proper limits. This is the ultimate aim of the designer and is extremely important on shipboard where space is usually at a premium."
"Landing wheel prerotation often has been considered as a means of reducing tire wear, however a more careful study of the problem brings out other more important advantages, the most important of which is reduction of structural loads. The wheel prerotation described in this article has a number of features to insure reliability. Since adequate electrical prerotation has been achieved, it appears to be well worth consideration for use on very large aircraft with multiple landing wheels."
"The performance of electric instruments in magnetic fields has been studied as related to portable voltmeters, ammeters, and wattmeters and, a brief survey of certain items of laboratory equipment whose external fields might affect nearby instruments has been made. The influence of magnetic fields on two common types of portable instruments is shown in Figures 1 and 2. The instrument under test was placed in a given magnetic field whose direction was adjusted to produce maximum effect. When a-c fields were used, their phase angles also had to be adjusted. Test instrument readings were held constant by means of a reference instrument so located as to be unaffected by the magnetic field. Readings taken were repeated with the field reversed in direction. Half the difference between the two readings, expressed as a percentage of full-scale deflection, was taken as the influence of the field. Manufacturer's catalogue statement of accuracy, and the approximate length of the scale are shown in the curves to indicate the general instrument quality. It is emphasized that accuracy specified by the manufacturer does not cover such conditions as the presence of magnetic fields."
"Douring recent expansion, the united states navy constructed or acquired more than 1,100 surface vessels powered with electric propulsion. The total capacity installed in these ships exceeded 4,500,000 shaft horsepower, but was limited primarily to vessels with propelling plants of small or medium capacity. Selection of electric propulsion for such vessels was based on: 1. Of those vessels constructed in the decade following World War I, two carriers and five battleships saw considerable service during World War II, showing previous favorable experience."
"Although the power field has much to offer the electrical engineering graduate, recent years have seen a strong preference on the part of college students for the newer, more “glamourous” fields of electronics and communications. If it is to attract the young engineers it needs, the industry must convince them that there are still challenges to be met in power, that there are developmental problems of just as much interest as those fundamental problems which faced Lamme and Steinmetz, that the power field offers great opportunities in the future."
"Most electric control systems and their respective components designed for a multijet airplane are in many respects much the same as those used on reciprocating engine-type airplanes. This is true also with respect to the starter and generator system as used on a recently developed 6-engine jet airplane. One main difference, however, is the starter and generator components themselves. On a standard reciprocating engine-type airplane these two components are separate entities having their own control systems. On this multijet airplane the starting and generating functions are performed by a single unit. This unit is called a “starter-generator” and is rated at 400 amperes, 30 volts direct current, capable of supplying a continuous output of 400 amperes at engine speeds from 4,000–8,000 rpm. The electric system designed to control the starter-generator and its supporting components was patterned, in the early designs, after comparable systems used on standard reciprocating-type airplanes. Modifications, and in some respects complete redesign, of parts of the control system were necessary in order to provide a system which would perform according to the more exacting requirements demanded of it."
"A new type of magnetic fluid and several classes of new devices utilizing this fluid have been developed at the National Bureau of Standards. One application of this fluid has been in electromagnetic clutches, but the electro-magnetically controlled mixture offers promise for other uses also."
"At the present time, the bureau of Ships uses separately mounted-magnetically or thermally-actuated relays to protect a-c motors from overload, single-phase, and locked rotor conditions. With the advent of silicone-insulated motors requiring different overload relay characteristics, the development of relays operating on the actual motor winding temperature was undertaken."
"Because neither norway nor sweden is very generously endowed with coal or oil resources, the power economy of both countries is founded almost entirely on the utilization of water power which, fortunately, is plentiful. This article on the development of hydroelectric power in Scandinavia is based on observations made by the author, a Canadian engineer, during a visit in the summer and fall of 1947."
"The following circuit is proposed for an aircraft reverse-current differential cutout. It consists of two units outlined by the dotted lines in Figure 1."
"In studying the general problem of weight reduction in shipboard equipment, consideration has been given to the use of higher frequency power. This has required an investigation of the operating characteristics of 3-conductor cables. The characteristics of interest are the effective or a-c resistance and inductance when the cable is operated in a 3-phase circuit."
"This third and concluding part of a series presents methods of attacking certain difficult problems by applications of dimensional analysis. The articles in this series are being made available in pamphlet form and will be announced as soon as available."
"During the early stages of the normandy invasion in World War II, the French port of Cherbourg fell to the Allies. The city was virtually without electric power, however, because of damage to the generating equipment. The Allies rushed a destroyer escort, the USS Donnell, into the harbor. In a short time power from the vessel's generators was being supplied to Cherbourg."
"The increased use of aluminum as an electric conductor has raised the problem of suitable connectors, especially when connections have to be made between aluminum and copper. Since aluminum-to-aluminum connections offer no serious problems which have not been satisfactorily solved in one way or another, this investigation has been confined to the electrical performance of aluminum-to-copper connections. The purpose of conducting this rather extensive investigation was to determine the feasibility of making direct connections between aluminum and copper, to determine the most suitable finish (plating) for the copper member of the connection (the aluminum member was always bare), and to determine the effect of using a compound in such connections. Although aluminum has been used for many years for the purpose of conducting electric current (mainly for overhead transmission in the form of ACSR, and to some extent for busbars), only very limited information and experience is available in respect to the electrical performance of bolted (clamped) connections made between aluminum and copper."
"Tests on suggested voltages for rural electrification have been made by the Rural Electrificational Administration. Their findings will be tried out in the near future on two projects, one in New Mexico and the other in Arizona."
"Electrical requirements for naval aircraft; a. H. Bergeson (Captain, United States Navy, Bureau of Aeronautics, Washington, D. C.)."
"These are the authors' digests of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE Midwest general meeting, Milwaukee, Wis., October 18–22, 1948. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE PROCEEDINGS or AIEE TRANSACTIONS, nor are they available from the Institute."
"Every electrical engineer likes a balanced budget, and the 1948–49 AIEE budget approved by the board of directors, October 19, 1948, is a balanced budget, as follows: Estimated income, 1948–49–$775,000 Estimated expenditures, 1948–49–$769,465"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A joint conference of representatives of government committees and ranking industrial standardization groups from Great Britain, Canada, and the United States are scheduled to meet within the next three months to finalize agreements on common standards for screw threads used on most types of threaded fasteners, including bolts and nuts. The attainment of such standards is important to commerce and industry. It is planned to hold this conference at the National Bureau of Standards, which has actively co-operated in the attainment of this objective over a period of many years. These agreements will not be in the form of a treaty, but will be based on separate documents, each of which is sponsored by the standardization group or groups of each of the countries concerned. These documents, setting forth the Unified Screw Thread Standard, will be in agreement on all fundamental points relating to the standard, but may differ in minor details and will differ in arrangement and general makeup. The purposes of the joint conference are to assure that there is complete agreement on all fundamentals and to celebrate the attainment of such agreement after many years of negotiations."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Pulse Code Modulation offers attractive possibilities for multiplex telephony via such media as the microwave radio relay. The various problems involved in its use have been explored in terms of a 96-channel system designed to meet the transmission requirements commonly imposed upon commercial toll circuits. Twenty-four of the 96 channels have been fully equipped in an experimental model of the system. Coding and decoding devices are described, along with other circuit details. The coder is based upon a new electron beam tube, and is characterized by speed and simplicity as well as accuracy of coding. These qualities are matched in the decoder, which employs pulse excitation of a simple reactive network."
"Pulse code transmission systems1 in which successive signal amplitude samples are transmitted by pulse code groups require special modulators. The essential operational requirements of a pulse code modulator are: (1) to quantize or measure the signal amplitude sample to the nearest step in the discrete amplitude scale transmitted by the pulse code system, and (2) to generate the group of on-off pulses identifying the step."
"A metallic lens antenna is described in which the focussing action is obtained by a reduction of the phase velocity of radio waves passing through the lens rather than by increasing it as in the original metal plate lens. The lens shape accordingly corresponds to that of a glass optical lens, being thick at the center and thin at the edges. The reduced velocity or “delay” is caused by the presence of conducting elements whose length in the direction of the electric vector of the impressed field is small compared to the wavelength; these act as small dipoles similar to the molecular dipoles set up in non-polar dielectrics by an impressed field. The lens possesses the relatively broad band characteristics of a solid dielectric lens, and since the conducting element can be made quite light, the weight advantage of the metal lens is retained. Various types of lenses are described and a theoretical discussion of the expected dielectric constants is given. An antenna design which is especially suitable for microwave repeater application is described in some detail."
"Microwave branching filters are required as integral parts of multi-channel microwave radio relay systems. These filters must have characteristics which are difficult to attain if one attempts to extend familiar lower frequency techniques to the microwave region. A novel network configuration, through which currently anticipated requirements can be met without excessive difficulty, is described in this paper. In this configuration individual constant resistance channel dropping units are formed of appropriate assemblies of two hybrid circuits, two band reflection filters and two quarter wavelengths of line. An assembly of N channel dropping units in cascade then forms an N channel constant resistance branching network. The mechanical and electrical characteristics of a practical five channel branching filter of this type are described. As a result of experience with this prototype filter it can be stated with some safety that these requirements can he fulfilled with a network of this type. Experimentally observed impedance, insertion loss and phase characteristics were fully satisfactory. In addition the circuit appears to be flexible enough both electrically and mechanically to fulfill the various types of systems needs which may be encountered at branch points or when channels must be added or interchanged."
"An analysis of the parallel-tuned transformer used in radio-frequency amplifiers has been made for a slightly over-coupled case. The resulting design formulas are simple and practical. Two cases are discussed: (a) the so-called matched transformer, with resistance loading on each side; (b) a transformer with loading on one side only, which has the same pass-band and phase characteristics as the matched transformer, but gives 3 db more gain when used as an in terstage. A special arrangement of (a) where the matched transformer design is used with one resistor removed, giving a transformer witha considerably double-humped pass-band characteristic and about 6 dh more gain, is also discussed."
"In Some technical problems we are concerned with a current which consists of a sinusoidal component plus a random noise component. A number of statistical properties of such a current are given here. The present paper may be regarded as an extension of Section 3.10 of an earlier paper,1 “Mathematical Analysis of Random Noise”, where some of the simpler properties of a sine wave plus random noise are discussed."
"Technically correct results in a field are achieved initially in diverse and often confusing and complicated ways. Sometimes, such results are later brought together to give them a more unified form and a sounder basis; such critical summary and exposition is of great value. In quite another way, a worker who uses results established in a field will discover many plausible reasons for believing the results, and he will find eventually that an air of inevitability and “understanding” pervades the subject. Such “understanding” is not to be confused with the process of rigorous proof carried out step by step, but it can help in organizing and making use of a body of related material."
"Gross-linkage of Linear Polyesters by Free Radicals.1 W. O. BAKER. Reactions fundamental to the use of the new low pressure laminating or casting resins have been studied. The striking property of these plastics, which are usually based on some polyester and a vinyl monomer, is their rapid and easy curing, leading to unique ease of fabrication. This curing, the formation of a permanent three dimensional polymer network, or gel, is achieved by reaction with a source of free radicals, such as from an organic peroxide. These agents cause polymerization of the vinyl monomer, as was previously understood, but they also seem to incorporate the polyester into the network, even if the polyester contains little or no unsaturation."
"It was some 80 years ago that Maxwell and Hertz demonstrated that free space is a good transmission medium for electromagnetic waves. Since this fundamental contribution, the radio art has advanced tremendously and a decade ago it had progressed to the point where it was possible to construct equipment suitable for quantitative propagation studies of microwaves. Such studies were made and they indicated that normal propagation over “line-of-sight” paths of signals of 10 to 20 centimeters wavelength was characterized by free space attenuation and freedom from atmospheric interference. These results, together with the facts that in this wavelength range wide bands of frequencies are available and it is possible to design small antennas having high directivity, encouraged us to start more comprehensive research work on microwave repeater circuits. This paper gives the present status of the work which was interrupted by our war efforts and resumed at the end of the war with the construction of an experimental New York-Boston system as an initial objective."
"Measuring equipment is described which is capable of measuring delay distortion of the order of 10−9 seconds in a wide band microwave television relay repeater. Two measuring circuits are discussed. The first is a circuit for measuring the relative phase shift versus frequency from which the delay distortion may be computed. The second circuit gives the delay directly from a single measurement. The measuring equipment is designed to work in the intermediate frequency range from 50 to 80 megacycles, but by applying suitable conversion equipment measurements can be made at microwave frequencies."
"Frequency shift telegraphy is described and compared with amplitude modulation telegraphy under various conditions found in radio and wire transmission. Experimental data are given to demonstrate the influence of various design factors on the over-all performance under these conditions. It is shown that the most outstanding characteristic of the frequency shift method is its ability to accept large and rapid changes in signal amplitude. Frequency shift telegraphy thus proves to be of great advantage for use in the H.F. radio range. Frequency shift telegraphy also shows an advantage over amplitude modulation telegraphy with respect to noise. For applications where the level variations are small or slow the advantage of the frequency shift method over amplitude modulation is relatively small."
"A method of computing reflections produced by circular bends in rectangular wave guides is presented. The procedure employs the theory of matrices. Although the matrix equations are quite simple, a considerable amount of calculation is necessary before quantitative results may be obtained. Fortunately, the approximate formulas pertaining to gentle bends hold surprisingly well for rather sharp bends. These formulas are obtained by a limiting process from the matrix equations. The approximate formula for reflection from an H-bend (in which the magnetic vector lies in the plane of the bend) generalizes an earlier result due to R. E. Marshak. The corresponding formula for the E-bend appears to be new."
"Linear differential equations with variable coefficients occur in many fields of applied mathematics: in the theories of acoustics, elastic waves, electromagnetic waves in stratified media, nonuniform transmission lines, wave guides, antennas, wave mechanics. The “Wave Perturbation” method described in greater detail elsewhere1 is particularly useful in those ranges of the independent variable in which the “WKB Approximation” is not sufficiently accurate. The present paper endeavors to illustrate the remarkable accuracy of this method, particularly when compared with Picard's method."
"This paper is concerned with the effect of the finite conductivity and dielectric constant of the earth on the potential coefficient for a 1-wire ground return circuit. It has been customary to say that the potential coefficient V/Q is p12 = c2 2 log ρ″/ρ′, elm units per cm. It is generally realized of course that this is just a good approximation to the true p12. To see that it is just an approximation one has only to imagine the earth turning into air, in which case the distance ρ″ will eventually cease to have significance. The object of this paper is to derive the complete expression for p12."
"Electrochemical Factors in Underground Corrosion of Lead Cable Sheath. V. J. Albano. Stray current is the principle cause of corrosion failures on underground telephone cables in most cities where trolleys are operated. To mitigate this condition, the cable sheaths are “drained” to the negative return system of the traction system. By this means not only is the stray current anodic area largely eliminated, but the cables automatically become negative to earth, and therefore are cathodically protected. The cathodic protection afforded in this manner prevents other types of corrosion from occurring. With the gradual abandonment of trolley systems, and with the extension of underground cables into non-trolley areas, the percentage of underground telephone plant receiving this protection is decreasing. As a result, the problems of lead corrosion due to such causes as galvanic and local cell action of various types, and chemical action by substances in the soil are becoming more prevalent. It is the purpose of this article to review some of the basic principles of corrosion not involving stray currents, and show how they apply to the problems of lead cable sheath corrosion."
"The recent development of various methods of modulation such as PCM and PPM which exchange bandwidth for signal-to-noise ratio has intensified the interest in a general theory of communication. A basis for such a theory is contained in the important papers of Nyquist1 and Hartley2 on this subject. In the present paper we will extend the theory to include a number of new factors, in particular the effect of noise in the channel, and the savings possible due to the statistical structure of the original message and due to the nature of the final destination of the information."
"During the war it became necessary for the Hell System Companies to lower many service standards. Among these was the standard for the provision of trunks for handling subscriber-dialed calls. In the interest of economy the number of trunks for a given volume of traffic was lowered. It is evident that for any given case there is a lower limit to the number of trunks that should be provided for handling subscriber-dialed calls. Below this limit congestion of calls gets beyond control. The control of congestion is important. In the case of operator-handled calls it is possible to control congestion by filing tickets and placing calls in an orderly fashion. In the case of subscriber-dialed calls the subscriber may with impunity make many, indeed very many, successive dialing attempts to complete a call that is blocked due to a shortage of trunks. If, in a particular office enough subscribers do this simultaneously, a sender shortage may develop with its resulting reaction on the whole office."
"Signals which are quantized both in time of occurrence and in magnitude are in fact quite old in the communications art. Printing telegraph is an outstanding example. Here, time is divided into equal divisions, and the number of magnitudes to be distinguished in any one interval is usually no more than two, corresponding to the closed or open positions of a sending switch. It is only in recent years, however, that the development of high speed electronic devices has progressed sufficiently to enable quantizing techniques to be applied to rapidly changing signals such as produced by speech, music, or television. Quantizing of time, or time division, has found application as a means of multiplexing telephone channels.1 The method consists of connecting the different channels to the line in sequence by fast moving switches synchronized at the transmitting and receiving ends. In this way a transmission medium capable of handling a much wider band of frequencies than required for one telephone channel can be used simultaneously by a group of channels without mutual interference. The plan is the same as that used in multiplex telegraphy. The difference is that ordinary rotating machinery suffices at the relatively low speeds employed by the latter, while the high speeds needed for time division multiplex telephony can be realized only by practically inertialess electron streams. Also the widths of frequency band required for multiplex telephony are enormously greater than needed for the telegraph, and in fact have become technically feasible only with the development of wide-band radio and cable transmission systems. As far as any one channel is concerned the result is the same as in telegraphy, namely that signals are received at discrete or quantized times. In the limiting case when many channels are sent the speech voltage from one channel is practically constant during the brief switch closure and, in effect, we can send only one magnitude for each contact or quantum of time. The more familiar word “sampling” will be used here interchangeably with the rather formidable term “quantizing of time”."
"This paper presents an analytical treatment of waveguide hybrid rings for microwaves, considered as re-entrant transmission lines. The resulting lines are transformed into equivalent “T” or “lattice” network sections, and determinantal methods are applied in analyzing these equivalent network assemblies for their transmission properties. Some experimental results obtained from a carefully constructed sample of each of two specific types are given. A satisfactory agreement is obtained between the values predicted by theory and experimental results."
"This paper presents a discussion of ideas involved in various mathematical methods of electromagnetic field analysis and of the inter-relations between these ideas. It stresses the points of contact between circuit and field theories and their mutually complementary character. While the field theory focuses our attention on the electromagnetic state as a function of position in space, the generalized circuit theory is preoccupied with the electromagnetic state as a function of time. The points of contact between the field and circuit theories are many. Thus, Maxwell's equations are identical with Kirchhoff's equations (really Lagrange-Maxwell equations) of certain three-dimensional networks in which only the adjacent meshes are coupled. The integral equations for the electrical current in conductors embedded in dielectric media are also Kirchhoff equations of certain networks containing infinitely many meshes with a coupling between every two meshes. From the point of view of electrical performance the difference between a physical network of lumped elements and a continuous network, such as a resonator, is due to a certain difference in the distribution of the zeros and poles of associated impedance functions in the complex impedance plane. Similarly, the difference between ordinary transmission lines and wave guides is due to a difference in the distribution o(natural propagation constants. The paper ends with a general discussion of the discontinuities in wave guides, idealized boundary conditions for simplification of electromagnetic problems, and the analytical character of field vectors regarded as functions of the complex oscillation constant."
"Some of the earliest documents in human history relate to man's interest in timekeeping. This interest arose partly because of his curiosity about the visible world around him, and partly because the art of time measurement became an increasingly important part of living as the need for cooperation between the members of expanding groups increased. There are still in existence devices believed to have been made by the Egyptians six thousand years ago for the purpose of telling time from the stars, and there is good reason to believe that they were in quite general use by the better educated people of that period.1 Since that period there has been a continuous use and improvement of timekeeping methods and devices, following sometimes quite independent lines, but developing through a long series of new ideas and refinements into the very precise means at our disposal today."
"Experimental Determination of Helical-Wane Properties.1 C. C. CUTLER. The properties of the wave propagated along a helix used in the traveling-wave amplifier are discussed. A description is given of measurements of field strength on the axis, field distribution around the helix, and the velocity of propagation. It is concluded that the actual field in the helix described is slightly weaker than would be predicted from the relations presented by J. R. Pierce for a hypothetical helical surface."
"The art of equivalent network representation has grown very considerably since its inception by Dr. G. A. Campbell. In his paper “Cissoidal Oscillations” which was published in 1911 he proved that any passive network made up of a finite number of invariable elements and having one pair of input terminals and one pair of output terminals is externally equivalent to an unsymmetrical T or II network. From this modest beginning the field of applications of the equivalent circuit concept has steadily expanded so that by now the whole field of linear passive circuit theory has been subjected to equivalent circuit interpretation."
"In this final installment of the paper we consider the case where the signals or the messages or both are continuously variable, in contrast with the discrete nature assumed until now. To a considerable extent the continuous case can be obtained through a limiting process from the discrete case by dividing the continuum of messages and signals into a large but finite number of small regions and calculating the various parameters involved on a discrete basis. As the size of the regions is decreased these parameters in general approach as limits the proper values for the continuous case. There are, however, a few new effects that appear and also a general change of emphasis in the direction of specialization of the general results to particular cases."
"A study of the response of an electrical network or system to the input of transients in the form of short-duration pulses is an accepted method of analysis of the network. By comparing the input and the output, conclusions may be drawn as to the respective merit of the various components. Until recently similar procedures were only of academic interest with mechanical systems. However, the tests for mechanical ruggedness, which are required of electronic gear in order to pass specifications for the armed forces, are an example of the application of transients to a mechanical system. These tests are known as High Impact Shock Tests."
"Microwave radio relay repeaters require the use of band-pass filters which match closely the impedances of the interconnecting transmission lines and which suppress adjacent channels adequately. A type of structure culled a Maximally-Flat filter meets these requirements. The ladder network which gives a maximally-flat insertion loss characteristic is discussed and several methods of achieving its counterpart in microwave transmission lines are presented. Resonant cavities are used to simulate tuned circuits and the necessary formulas relative to this approximate equivalence are given. Experimental data confirm the theory and show that this technique yields remarkable impedance matches."
"This paper develops various formulas for the response of an FM receiver to signal or noise input voltages of arbitrary form. The principal object in view is to obtain a more complete understanding of how an FM receiver responds to transient voltages, such as those arising from ignition interference, but the more general aspects of the theory have other applications as well. In particular, general formulas are given for the response of a linear circuit to an applied voltage, or current, of variable frequency. The Fourier transforms, or frequency spectra, of the response, and the envelope thereof, are determined."
"Traveling-wave tubes will have gain even if the r-f field at the mean position of the electron stream is purely transverse. The addition of a longitudinal magnetic focusing field reduces the gain due to transverse fields and increases the electron velocity for optimum gain."
"Pulse Code Modulation.1 H. S. BLACK and J. O. EDSON. A radically new modulation technique for multichannel telephony has been developed which involves the conversion of speech waves into coded pulses. An 8-channel system embodying these principles was produced. The method appears to have exceptional possibilities from the standpoint of freedom from interference, but its full significance in connection with future radio and wire transmission may take some time to reveal."
"Excellent engineering progress has been made in the development of equipment and methods for the exhibition of television pictures in theaters. Considerable thought has been devoted to types of acceptable programs for theater television. However, the final design of commercial television equipment for theaters is not yet available, nor are proved and acceptable program methods as yet clearly defined. — Accordingly, theater television may be regarded at present as being, in some respects, in a partly developed state. Considering this situation, the following analysis is perforce a descriptive report, as of today. It contains as well some analytical discussions of possible future trends. But the data and conclusions are of necessity subject to revision as further progress in theater television brings forth new methods and offers greater capabilities in this highly interesting field."
"Development work on mercury lamps in England progressed at an accelerated rate during the past eight years in connection with war projects. The result of this work has been new types of such lamps in which the source shape has been modified, the source brightness increased, and the color quality improved so much as to suggest important advantages for motion picture and television studio lighting if economic factors permit their use. — In this paper the author summarizes and analyzes data made available to him from research laboratories in England."
"No simple solution for the reduction of mechanical noise of motion picture equipment can be expected. Acoustic designing depends on fundamental analysis of the phenomena which cause the undesired disturbance. The psychology of hearing points out the importance of lowering the frequencies. The importance of measuring the spectrum of the noise is emphasized in order to find a clue to the treatment. A distinction is made between sound-energy sources and sound-radiating sources. A discussion of these and the coupling between them is made. Reduction of noise comes about by means of (1) lessening the force from the energy source, (2) reducing coupling, (3) increasing the mechanical impedance, and (4) lowering the radiation impedance. Reducing the coupling appears to have the best potentialities. A brief discussion is also made of measuring techniques."
"Theaters using “live” talent shows usually require a sound-reinforcement system to enable patrons to hear as well as to see the entire show. This paper describes a system recently installed in the Roxy Theater in New York City, which incorporates many unique features to permit satisfactory handling of any stage presentation, however complex. Among these features are a control console of unusual design, equipped with mixers and volume controls of a new type, and a method of effecting stereophonic reproduction."
"This paper describes a new intermodulation analyzer of improved design and also a two-signal generator for use with the analyzer. The equipment is intended for measuring distortion in audio-frequency systems by means of paired signals which may be selected in several combinations from 40 to 12,000 cycles per second. This equipment has been found to be particularly useful in determining optimum processing conditions for variable-density recording but is also useful in any field where audio frequencies are employed."
"An automatic safety sprocket is described, together with adapters to fit all types of 35-mm projectors. The conditions which cause the safety sprocket to operate to prevent a fire are discussed as well as a detailed analysis of how fires can be prevented in projectors."
"During the past twenty years, great advances have been made in motion picture theater design and in theater engineering. The builder, architect, and equipment manufacturers have come to recognize the value of co-ordinating their work in order that an attractive, comfortable, well-equipped theater might result. There are outlined here some of these advances and some of the problems which have been studied in this connection."
"The motion picture theater, properly understood, has its own complex “psychology.” This psychology must be understood in its component parts, and in its leading characteristics, so that all concerned may interpret it adequately. An appreciation of the mission of the theater, its activities, and its nature, plus the nature of its relationships will aid this understanding. Its place in the community will be determined finally by the manager's alertness, and his comprehension of the significance of the industry of which he is a representative."
"This paper will discuss the uses of alternate materials and to some extent the varied requirements to be considered in the construction of a modest or low-cost type of theater as compared to the construction of the more elaborate or so-called de luxe motion picture house. It will neglect the considerations of the special features such as layout of a full-act stage, stage lifts, gridiron, dressing rooms, paint bridges, orchestra lifts, and other requirements of a full presentation or legitimate theater, as probably there will be few theaters of this description constructed in the immediate future."
"The influence of the motion picture studios on West Coast motion picture theater architecture is described. The typical present-day motion picture theater of West Coast design is discussed."
"The problems involved in planning and building a drive-in theater are outlined. The following topics are treated: selection of the site, grading, drainage, and traffic control. Also considered are the proper elevation of ramps, lighting, and landscaping."
"The theater situation in Australia is treated extensively in this paper and building problems in Egypt and in Peru are outlined briefly. It is pointed out that the rest of the world looks to America for the latest innovations in theater construction and equipment."
"This discussion will not be an attempt to consider, from a technical point of view, the problems of theater design as the author is neither an architect nor an engineer. Rather, it will be an attempt to call attention to some of the problems and advancements regarding the seating layout and the design of seating areas for visibility as they have been observed during twenty-three years' association with the American Seating Company as a technician."
"Ideas are proposed for refinements in the presentation of motion pictures. It is pointed out here that dramatic values can be heightened and visual comfort increased by different uses of a larger screen."
"This paper presents for consideration a departure from the usual procedure of planning a motion picture theater, and to consider the possibility of designing the appearance of the whole auditorium on the same basis as the cinema screen itself is designed, to act as a reflector of light."
"The need for a retractable chair in theaters, and the features that should be embodied in a chair of this type are outlined."
"The paper describes the electronic and camera equipment for recording television sight and sound on film, the picture made directly from the face of the cathode-ray tube. The application of this technique will be discussed with regard to documentary recording, network syndication use, and theater television. Representative films recorded in this manner are available."
"A 16-mm motion picture camera for recording television programs at sound speed from a monitor receiving tube is described. Basic camera-design features include a 1200-foot magazine, which permits continuous recording of a half-hour program, separate synchronous-motor drives for the shutter and film-transport mechanisms, an 8-tooth sprocket pulldown actuated by an accelerated geneva star, an ƒ/1.6, 2-inch focal length coated lens, and a 72-degree shutter. Other features include a“bloop” light to provide registration with the sound-film recorder, a film loop-loss indicator, and appropriate footage indicators. — Some general operating characteristics of the camera are included along with a description of the pulldown system and the general problem of film steadiness. The last is particularly critical because of the high accelerations involved in the pulldown, in addition to the reaction of film to temperature and humidity changes."
"This paper will give a historical review of the progress of theater television projection in Great Britain, both before and after the war, and will describe the design and performance of the equipment which has been developed for distribution and projection of television programs. It will also indicate the proposals now being made for the setting up of a theater television service in England, first in London, and then throughout the country."
"A band-elimination filter continuously variable within a range from 30 to 9000 cycles has been developed. This device has proved extremely useful for the elimination of interference frequencies in the production of sound for motion pictures."
"This paper presents a review of the factors affecting the acoustic properties of auditoria. Emphasis is placed upon not only having these factors meet the previously accepted requirements for technical excellence, but those factors which contribute to the esthetic or dramatic effect, particularly as regards shape of the auditorium and the diffusion of reflected sound."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe some of the objectionable noises, their causes, some of their remedies, and to point out that it is much easier to avoid these troubles in building a new theater than to rectify them in an old one."
"Theater architects and engineers need accurate data on the performance of acoustic materials, which are used to control the acoustics of theaters. Descriptions of prefabricated materials and acoustic plasters are given. The mechanism of the sound-absorption process in porous materials is briefly described. There are two commonly used absorption coefficients, the “random-incidence” coefficient, and the “normal-incidence” coefficient. The experimental methods used for measuring the two coefficients are described. The significance and limitations of these coefficients in theater design are pointed out, and it is concluded that, at the present time, the random-incidence coefficient is more useful in auditorium design. Recommendations for painting acoustic materials are made, and illustrations of the results of painting are included."
"This paper analyzes the problem presented by the continuous lighting of motion picture theater auditoriums; gives data on screen brightness with various types of film running; relates auditorium brightness to average screen brightness with film running; proposes a specific arrangement of brightnesses from screen background to theater lobby; and suggests a practical method by which this arrangement of brightnesses may be attained with standard lighting equipment."
"A means of modulating a light beam with a flat response which greatly exceeds the audio range is described utilizing the linear electrooptic effect in P-type** crystals. The unit uses parallel polarized light and although it requires relatively high voltages, it draws essentially no current and has no moving parts. From the basic aspects it seems very promising for an efficient yet sturdy variable-density recording system."
"Some of the problems encountered in the design and production of a quality 16-mm sound projector designed to meet the requirements of the school, church, and industrial fields, are analyzed. Screen illumination, sound reproduction, operational controls, film handling and film protection, noise factors, styling, maintenance, and weight limitations will be discussed. Manufacturing problems and their solution on the basis of mass production will be considered."
"Optical problems in large-screen television are enumerated and present-day solutions of these problems are discussed. Details of one prewar and two postwar models of RCA large-screen projectors are described."
"An experimental large-screen program is being carried on to determine the requirement for theater use. The governing factors: the light source, the optical system, and the screen are discussed. Photographs show equipment built for an experimental program."
"Air conditioning as now defined involves four basic elements. These are a definite controlled temperature, the maintenance of the desirable relative humidity, a predetermined rate of air movement, and air filtration. In a properly installed air-conditioning system these elements can be predetermined and independently controlled, but temperature, humidity, and air movement must be controlled with a definite relation one to the other."
"The germicidal activity of glycol vapor on air-suspended bacteria and viruses has been clearly demonstrated. The most suitable compound thus far found for use in such air disinfection is triethylene glycol. When dispersed in air as a true vapor in exceedingly small amounts it is highly germicidal for pathogens of the respiratory tract, including influenza virus. It is nontoxic, nonirritating, odorless, tasteless, invisible, and inexpensive. Satisfactory devices for the vaporization and regulation of bactericidal concentrations of glycol are now made and are in use."
"Theater attendance, and the decrease during times of epidemic respiratory disease, involves a public-health and a theater-operation problem possible of partial solution by an increase in ventilation, a sanitary ventilation, probably effective only when provided in amounts physically and economically impractical because of the power and duct capacity required to heat and distribute outdoor winter make-up air. Ultraviolet air disinfection provides a way of making the air in the upper third or half of theater auditoria and accessory rooms as good as outdoor air, or a sanitary ventilation of the lower air, equivalent to 50 to 100 air changes, resulting from the usual random vertical air circulation throughout the horizontal cross section of occupied rooms. Any sanitary ventilation value in the make-up air of a duct-heating and air-conditioning system, may also be increased five- to tenfold by using ultraviolet energy to disinfect all recirculated air to the bacterial equivalence of outdoor air. There are tabulated lamp requirements for upper-air and duct-air disinfection and schematic installation sketches."
"Because of shortages of raw material and parts in the air-conditioning and refrigeration field, it is necessary that theater owners maintain and place in operation and service the apparatus already installed."
"There is no need to enter upon the importance of displaying advertising in a theater. The reasons are too well known by all; but, the number of frames, type and size, are worth considering in planning the installation of display frames."
"In order to train new radar operators quickly and to teach experienced operators how to utilize the newer types of radar prior to installation, the United States Naval Photographic Science Laboratory undertook the investigation of cathode-ray-tube motion picture photography on a production basis. Its methods, as described here, form the basis for the present United States Navy advances in this type of photography."
"Equipment to synchronize a high-intensity flashlamp with a high-speed motion picture camera has been designed and built. The camera was a 16-mm, rotating-prism type and synchronization was accomplished by a brush-type contactor built into the camera. The electrical signal from the contactor was sent through a pulse-forming circuit to a trigger tube in the flashlamp circuit. The film speed was 1800 frames per second and the duration of each flash was about one microsecond. Resolving-power tests made by photographing a one-foot disk revolving at 1500 revolutions per minute showed the marked superiority of flash-lighting over continuous light at these speeds. The resolving power measured for a rapidly moving object was doubled by the use of multiflash lighting, and, even in the case of a stationary object, a 25 per cent increase was obtained."
"This paper presents a discussion of the possibilities of utilizing electronic flashtubes in synchronization with standard motion picture cameras at normal and moderately high exposure rates. The results of experimental tests are described, and are followed by descriptions of two units, the Cine-Strobe-Light and the Universal Strobe-Light intended for use in this manner. Associated lighting equipment is shown, and results obtained, together with side effects, are discussed."
"An analysis of both hand-drawn and machine-made sound tracks is presented together with methods. — Of fundamental importance is the fact that synthetic sound tracks for the first time enable a composer to hear his composition as written rather than through artists' interpretation. — Three basic methods are presented: (1) hand drawing directly on the film, (2) frame-by-frame photography of drawings and patterns, and (3) mechanical generation by machines, such as the harmonic integraph, which are coupled to a variable-area or -density modulator registering on the film."
"An improved method of adapting industrial control to picture and sound projection is described. Master-control stations located below the booth viewing ports place push buttons at the projectionist's finger tips. These remotely operate the various apparatus in sequence as selected. An integrating intercommunication unit provides reliable contact between projection booth and auditorium."
"The Standards shown or described here are the last five of a series of forty American Standards of interest to motion picture engineers that are listed in a short review article beginning on page 279 of this issue."
"Carpeting is a major cost in the theater furnishing budget and is still greater in the maintenance and replacement program. An approach to a better understanding of this problem is a study from the angle of “Buying Carpet by the Pound.”"
"The factors affecting the service and wear of pile floor coverings are discussed, particularly in relation to theater carpets and rugs. An attempt is made to show how this information can be exploited by the theater operator to his own advantage in terms of obtaining longer wear and less replacement from his carpet."
"The most important problem with which theater operators have to contend is maintenance, i. e., the prevention of dirt, grit, slush, and moisture from being carried into the theater proper so as not to mar the desired clean atmosphere. — Rubber floor coverings of every description have been universally used for this purpose because of the material's ability to stand up under the most adverse conditions. These coverings consist of corrugated mattings, perforated mats, link mats, rubber tile, and sheet flooring. There are various types of each, and all are designed to serve definite needs."
"As is well known, sponge rubber as such, has been in use for many years in a variety of articles. And like so many other things made of rubber, great strides have been made in scientifically improving its compound to suit different conditions and circumstances."
"This paper discusses the maintenance of soft floor coverings and its related subject, vacuum cleaning, and outlines the type of vacuum cleaners now available for theater cleaning, and their proper uses and maintenance, so that the carpets in theaters are always kept immaculately clean, the ever-present problem of the theater manager. Also it will attempt to show how expense in connection with the renewal of carpets and the cost of its maintenance can be held to a minimum by the use of properly designed vacuum-cleaning equipment."
"The maintenance of hard floors has many aspects, but this paper will be restricted to telling how floors can best be cleaned, scrubbed, and waxed in order to maintain for them an attractive appearance."
"It is well known that the nearly universal practice of printing sound tracks by contact on the periphery of a rotating sprocket introduces significant amounts of flutter, and also amplitude modulation of the higher frequencies of the record, principally at the sprocket-hole frequency. — An optical one-to-one ratio printer in which the negative and the printing stock are driven separately by good constant-speed mechanisms has given substantially improved quality in printing 16-mm sound tracks. In contact prints of 7000-cycle records it is easy to demonstrate rapid fluctuations of output level of the order of 6 to 8 decibels. In optical prints from the same negatives such fluctuations do not exceed 1/2 decibel. High-frequency response is improved, to the extent of 5 decibels at 7000 cycles. The cross-modulation cancellation density for variable-area track prints is increased by about 0.1 in the region of practical interest. Listening tests show an immediately noticeable improvement in quality when optical prints are compared with contact prints made from the same negatives. — The optical system for sound-track printing must be able to resolve patterns several times finer than the highest frequencies on the sound negative, and, for printing on color films, must be especially free from the higher-order chromatic aberrations, secondary spectrum and chromatic variation of spherical aberration. Ordinary photographic lenses are unsuitable. One system which meets the requirements using commercially available microscope lenses is described."
"The processing of lengths of film by winding the film back and forth between immersed spools is possible because of the activity by solutions entrapped between windings as well as the activity of solutions on the film in transit. Field and laboratory processing methods have been developed for the G-3 tank which handles both 16-mm and 35-mm film up to 100-foot lengths."
"This paper describes mechanics and design of the Peerless Hy-Candescent 120- to 180-ampere projection arc lamp, the Hy-Speed condenser-lens system, and the light heat filter unit."
"A 35-mm re-recording channel consisting of four film phonographs, a projector, associated power supplies, and a mixing console, providing low installation cost and extreme operating economy, were required for an installation in Brazil. A rather unique and practical solution to the problem is presented."
"This survey of the more important technical progress made by the motion picture industry during 1947 is classified as follows: A—Introduction, B—Cinematography, C—Sound Recording, D—Picture and Sound Reproduction, E—Television, and F—Standards. Developments relating to 35-, 16-, and 8-mm films are discussed under the major headings."
"There is described here a beam-splitter color camera which utilizes the principle of a single-reflection prism block to expose three films in the combination of “bipack and one.”"
"A new measuring instrument of unusual versatility has been designed specifically for theater sound service. This meter is a part of a co-ordinated group of new test instruments which together meet efficiently all measurement needs of theater sound equipment."
"This paper describes a noise-reduction amplifier which is capable of supplying bias current to several types of light modulators. Its current capacity and output impedance are arranged so that it will operate in conjunction with low- or high-impedance galvanometers and also with noise-reduction shutters."
"Long the leaders in prompt utilization of advanced resources of the lighting art, motion picture theaters yielded this place as a result of wartime restrictions and early postwar conditions. Many now find themselves in marked need of rehabilitation in this respect. — Some of the newer forms of light sources produced during the war and since, offer ways to expand the techniques of lighting. New materials and old ones in new forms are becoming available for modernizing the theater. Combinations of these sources and materials increase the scope of lighting treatments available to serve the special purposes of the motion picture exhibitor. — In this paper, the authors present some of the new types of lighting elements and suggest applications to marquee, lobby, foyer, standee space, and public rooms."
"The 18-watt, 12-inch, T8 Circlarc fluorescent lamp is a standardized curved fluorescent lamp made in the form of a half circle 12 inches in diameter. Used singly or in multiple arrangements, it provides a flexibility of application not obtainable with the full-circle (Circline) lamp. The arc stream of each lamp is short so it may be operated directly from the 110- to 125-volt alternating-current lighting circuit with a small low-cost choke as a ballast or from 110- to 125-volt direct-current circuits with special auxiliaries. The semicircular shape makes it possible to obtain, with a curved fluorescent lamp, the advantages of mass-production machinery previously available only with straight-tube lamps. — The lampholders required must provide a preheat and an operating circuit and must allow a tolerance for variation in lamp diameter and base-pin location. A spring support at the center of the lamp holds it in place. The ballasts must develop proper electrical values to operate the lamps at designed wattage without excessive loss or overheating. — Lamps mounted on walls and ceilings provide pattern lighting using a production lamp. Bare-lamp clusters provide new novelty for suspended fixture design. The half circle simplifies design, installation, and maintenance of built-in lighting with curved fluorescent lamps. Portable lamps and other fixtures with several Circlarc lamps now can be provided with multilevel fluorescent lighting."
"The basic requirements which govern the success of black-light installations in the motion picture theater have been accurately determined. The demonstrated difficulty of satisfying those requirements indicates the need of a new technique.- A prefabricated and ready-packaged mural and black-light combination is suggested as the answer to the problem."
"The proper control of the intensity of the lighting in a theater is essential to the comfort and safety of the audience. The theater dimmer is the device which provides means of adjusting these intensities as required by the season of the year or the time of day. Of the various types of theater dimmers available, the autotransformer dimmer provides the most efficient and desirable unit for the small neighborhood theater. Units of large capacity are available, which will operate at high efficiency and low maintenance cost."
"Flicker is defined for the general case and additional information on subjective effects and analysis presented. The subject is then restricted to those types of flicker which are the result of equipment deficiencies and quantitative methods for measuring such effects are described. The application of methods to specific equipments, the results obtained, and certain remedial measures are discussed. Finally, recommendations for future work in this field are submitted."
"This paper describes the Bell System's plans for furnishing network and local video facilities. The Telephone Company is now using broad-band coaxial cable and microwave radio systems to provide regular message telephone service on a number of principal intercity routes throughout the nation. These facilities can be used to provide television transmission channels when properly equipped. Video service between Washington, D. C., New York, and Boston over these two types of facilities has been demonstrated. New facilities are rapidly being extended. Local video channels for pickup and metropolitan-area networks are provided by ordinary paper-insulated cable pairs, special shielded polyethylene-insulated pairs, by microwave radio systems, or by combinations of these systems. Amplifier and equalizing arrangements for providing wide-band transmission over these facilities are described. Present Bell System views of the availability of microwave and coaxial cable facilities on the principal routes, types of circuits, bandwidths, bridging and terminating arrangements, and general information concerning the provision of television circuits are covered."
"An improved 35-mm to 16-mm optical reduction sound printer embodying improvements in image quality and film motion is described."
"Film will be the backbone of television programming, requiring the motion picture industry to prepare pictures for this new medium. When television becomes as advanced as radio is today, video stations will devote more than 50 per cent of their program time to film because film is the only proved method by which a show can be planned, rehearsed, staged, edited, previewed, and telecast with professional perfection. Film photographed for theatrical release is not satisfactory for television. New lighting techniques must be used, long shots avoided, and television's small gray screen kept in mind during production if quality transmission is to be obtained."
"The performances of the iconoscope and orthicon pickup tubes and kinescope monitor tubes constituting a television system are considered in regard to the response versus level characteristics. A nonlinear electrical network is advocated for combination with the iconoscope to equalize the gamma variations to a constant gamma approximately complementary with the monitor-tube gamma. Another nonlinear electrical network is advocated for combination with the orthicon to reduce the gamma of this camera to the same gamma as the corrected iconoscope camera. — A direct positive photographic technique is described using a negative monitor picture obtained by electrical phase reversal, and the toe region of the positive film characteristic. A general mathematical expression for the shape of the film toe as a function of the gammas of the television camera and monitor as required for linear over-all performance is derived. — The merits of such a photographic technique are economy, simplicity, rapidity of processing, and greater average screen brightness."
"The colorimetrically exact reproduction of color in simultaneous television is now possible, through the congruence of the camera spectral sensitivities to definite characteristics specified by colorimetry and through the combination of the camera signals in both positive and negative amounts by suitable circuits and amplifiers. The negative sensitivities of the photo- pickups formerly required for certain spectral wavelength intervals are obviated by these signal-mixing circuits, and simultaneous color television, both as to color range and accuracy of reproduction, is capable of the finest color reproduction available anywhere. The mixing circuits perform a function resembling that known in color photography as masking, but whereas the latter is always approximate and often a hit-or-miss procedure, the television system can approach perfection without undue complication. The basic concepts and relations of trichromatic colorimetry are here developed. Many of these relationships are of immediate importance in color reproduction and are stated explicitly, with the aid of a concise notation. In addition, certain rather philosophic aspects of television as a means for the communication of sense perception are discussed and a plea is made for the extension and compilation for television purposes of knowledge about the properties of the eye."
"A critical survey of old and new literature reveals the development of the modern slide projector out of the old “art of mirror writing” which in its turn can be derived from the silhouette. A wrong interpretation of a passage in an old book which describes a camera obscura caused the wrong opinion that the slide projector must have developed from the camera obscura. This contrivance, however, has been the forerunner of the modem photographic camera."
"This report contains information on three phases of studio lighting as follows: I. Various types of new equipment which have been recently developed and used are described and illustrated. II. New uses for standard commercial lamps are discussed. III. The results of tests conducted to determine the effect of variation of power-supply voltage and lamp maintenance upon color rendition of 16-mm commercial Kodachrome are given."
"On October 25, 1947, a meeting was held of the American Standards Association Committee on Standards for Sound Recording, under the chairmanship of George Nixon of the National Broadcasting Company. On this committee the Society of Motion Picture Engineers was represented by J. A. Maurer, C. R. Keith, Otto Sandvik, and E. W. Kellogg, who was asked to assume the chairmanship of a subcommittee to recommend standards with respect to the measurement of performance characteristics and distortion in sound recording and reproducing systems, The membership of the subcommittee is as follows:"
"The first half of this paper will present to the motion picture technician a review of magnetic-recording theory; the second half consists of experimental data taken with the new magnetic-recording equipment of the Radio Corporation of America. Input-output, frequency-response, and distortion data, which were taken under test conditions familiar to motion picture technicians, are presented. There are many excellent articles available which treat the various aspects of this subject. Those who are interested in the detailed scientific explanations are referred to these articles, listed in the bibliography, and to the extensive patent literature. This paper attempts to consolidate the information in these articles in simplified form and to provide a useful picture of the phenomena in magnetic recording and reproduction for those whose primary interest is in the application of the theory."
"An idea was conceived of designing and building a number of kits to add magnetic sound-recording facilities to a standard photographic recorder. It is believed that by starting magnetic recording in this manner it will enable the studios to obtain some practical experience without the expense of a complete film-handling mechanism and yet will not interfere with photographic sound-recording production work. The construction of the mechanical and electrical components of the kit and the operational features are discussed as well as the performance characteristics that can be expected of this system."
"An experimental study was made of magnetic tapes and films produced by several manufacturers. The effects of bias current upon the frequency characteristic, the reproducing level, and the harmonic distortion are shown. Conclusions are drawn as to the best method of testing a given tape for the optimum value of high-frequency bias."
"Various types of variable-area track, including standard and push-pull, may be obtained by various arrangements of the light-valve ribbons. A mathematical analysis is made of the effect of various light-valve constants on the magnitude of the resonance-peak and frequency-response measurements of an improved light valve with high magnetic damping are given. A theoretical study of the effect of azimuth deviation on unilateral, dulateral, and bilateral tracks is included in the paper and is illustrated with graphical charts of the distortion produced by various amounts of azimuth deviation for these types of tracks."
"A variable-area modulator is described which employs a ribbon light valve as the basic modulating element. Double-width push-pull, variable-area sound track or standard width dulateral sound track may be recorded at will by inserting the appropriate light valve into the modulator. The light valve is registered in place in the modulator by indexing dowels and securely locked by means of lever-controlled clamping springs. — The light-valve ribbons are oriented so as to be parallel to the direction of motion of the film. The ribbon edges are projected at ten times magnification onto the film to define the amplitude co-ordinate of the recording image while the image height is determined by a narrow rectangular stop which is imaged onto the film at a 70:1 reduction in height by a cylindrical lens system. — The modulator is a completely self-contained unit embodying the basic components for the recording optical system, an optical system for rear projecting an enlarged image of the ribbon aperture onto a viewing screen, a photoelectric monitoring system, and an exposure meter."
"There Have Been many news articles with reference to the problem of motion picture production in the City of New York, and many of them, I fear, used the language of the West Coast by reason of the extravagance of the adjectives used. Our approach has been a simple and a modest one. It is an approach that I think any people residing in any city, who have an interest generally in the welfare of that city, would take with reference to a business to which it feels it can contribute substantially. We do not envision Siting Hollywood from the West Coast and dropping it into New York City. That would be ridiculous and we realize and know that only too well. We do believe that we have many things here that this industry needs and we feel that the City of New York is entitled to and properly should be given a greater percentage of the production of pictures and that if the facilities, if our scenes, if our backgrounds, if that which we have to contribute are utilized by the industry, it will result not in bitter competition between the West Coast and New York City, or competition between any other center of production and New York City, but it will serve as a stimulant which will bring improvement to the motion picture industry."
"A description is given of procedures to be used with the new Ansco Film Type 155—which is designed for making color-separation negatives. Equal gammas are obtained for the red, green, and blue filter exposures with the same developing time, making it possible to obtain the black-and-white separations as successive frames on a single strip of film and thus obviate much of the difficulty of registration. By varying the developing time or developer formula, it is possible to change the gamma over a range of 0.5 to 2.0 to suit the purpose for which the separations are intended, while still maintaining equal gradations for the different filter exposures. — The following are some of the applications for the film which are described: (1) to provide duplicates of Ansco Color originals for protection or (2) foreign release, (3) for special-effects and process photography in conjunction with Ansco Color motion picture films, and (4) for direct photography of animated cartoons which are to be printed in Ansco Color."
"A new variable-area recording optical system is announced which incorporates refinements and improvements in design and arrangement that make for better performance and more convenient operation, maintenance, and servicing. Optical features include improvements in aperture condenser, aperture, and intermediate objective lens designs; in design and mounting of slit; in mounting of filter; in ground-noise-reduction shutter and phototube monitor; in design and mounting of monitoring optics and monitoring screen. The system incorporates features enabling the operator to record a negative or positive track at will; it utilizes a new low-distortion galvanometer previously announced before this Society. It has been expressly designed as a component part of a new de luxe recording machine, RCA Type PR-31, also previously announced before this Society."
"A method of using a standard cathode-ray oscillograph to present low-frequency or direct-current conditions is described. In the interest of sound on-film recording the paper describes how an electronic switch is used to generate repetitive pulses of audio signals as a second electronic switch is used to pick up the signals and the resulting noise-reduction-bias envelope and place them in reference positions on the oscillograph."
"This paper describes a motion picture film developing machine which operates on a principle which has been used for a long time. It has been designed with the intention of providing convenience and flexibility of operating setup for various processes. Thyratron controls are used to provide uniform tension at the head and takeup, and to control speed of the main drive. Air agitation is provided."
"Remote operation implies the pickup of program matter outside the studio and station. Equipment and personnel in the field, in the station, and interconnecting are always involved in a “remote”. Field operations usually require two cameras, preferably employing image-orthicon tubes. Studio or film images and sound can be dubbed in between field sequences, a procedure useful for commercial announcements. A relay receiver, a picture switching or mixing device, monitors, oscillograph, and audio-control equipment are required at the station for such operation. These combined facilities provide unsurpassed program possibilities."
"This paper discusses the practicability of converting existing railway dining cars for the presentation of motion pictures as a medium for relaxation while still retaining the use of the car for restaurant service. Determining factors for selecting available 16-mm standard projection equipment are given, and problems presented by the moving train with respect to good screen results are outlined. Necessary modifications to standard equipment are described and details regarding a rigid demountable screen and an adequate loudspeaker system are given. The large power capacity of the car's battery system, in conjunction with the General Electric Amplidyne convertor, is used to operate the complete motion picture installation. The paper concludes with statements regarding the final results obtained, passenger comments received, and the general public reaction to the installation made for the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway."
"A waterproof tape splicer for the assembly of motion picture film prior to development is described and illustrated."
"Sound slidefilm equipment is an audio-visual aid that is rapidly assuming its proper place in the fields of education, sales, and entertainment. This type of equipment fills in the gap between silent still pictures and sound-on-film moving pictures. The purpose of this paper is to describe the design and construction of the EXPLAINETTE “100”, a sound slidefilm unit that has been built with a functional approach to the general application of such equipment."
"THIS REPORT of the President is the story of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers, its activities during the last six months, and what takes place at the New York Headquarters' Office 3000 miles from this, the 63rd Semiannual Convention."
"This is a brief review of published material and, in its original form, was an introductory part of a symposium on the various aspects of television which will affect the photographic industry. It is not an attempt to answer directly the question, “Who invented television?” for, as Waldemar Kaempffert, Science Editor of the New York Times, has already pointed out, Professor William F. Ogburn in his “Social Change” has listed 148 major discoveries and inventions which were made simultaneously and independently by at least two workers in the particular field concerned in each case; and if the list were to include developments of secondary importance, it would undoubtedly have grown into a volume at least as large as an unabridged dictionary. Rather, then, it should be construed as an attempt to convey a general understanding of the subject by considering how it was pieced together."
"THE BYLAWS OF OUR SOCIETY wisely provide that the chairmen of committees “shall not be eligible to serve in such capacity for more than two consecutive terms.” The first of this present year constituted that limit for the writer's service as chairman of the Committee on Standards, and so made appropriate this final reporting of the events of that period. At the same time it is hoped that this review, including as it does a description of the terminal status of the various standardization projects which were being conducted under the writer's general direction, may be of service to the new chairman and members of the Committee on Standards. Then too, the accelerating influence of the wartime period on standardization activities has stimulated a good deal of thinking with regard to the development of sound peacetime practices in this field, so that I have ventured to include a certain amount of philosophizing in that connection."
"The present system of marking the diaphragm stops in terms of the geometric f number is subject to serious deficiencies so far as uniform performance for lenses set at the same marked stop opening is concerned. Decisions regarding the proper exposure time to use at a selected stop opening may be in error by ± 10 per cent for a lens whose surfaces do not have antireflection coatings, and by even greater amounts for a lens whose surfaces do have antireflection coatings. These errors arise from differences in the reflection and absorption losses in the lens elements themselves, departures of the measured from the nominal focal length, and departures of the measured diaphragm openings from the nominal diaphragm openings. — A method is described whereby a lens can be calibrated by a light meter in terms of an ideal lens so that the variation in axial illumination in the focal plane need not exceed ± 2 per cent in using different lenses set to the same calibrated stop opening."
"Motion picture screening rooms have many and varied uses such as for motion picture studios, film laboratories, recording studios, film exchanges, and many other applications. The material to be presented here, however, will be concerned with screening rooms which are used in motion picture studios, and those in film laboratories. In many respects, considerably more is required of the projection equipment used in such screening rooms than is required when used in other types of screening rooms, or in regular theaters."
"The main features of the design of this 35-mm model are a completely enclosed projector, for silence, safety, and cleanliness. The mechanism operates in a totally enclosed oil bath, and the equipment has built-in accessories such as automatic change-over and fire-quenching devices."
"The 35-mm Zoomar is at present mainly used for newsreel work where it has proved itself a valuable tool especially in the field of sports shots. A studio Zoomar of more rigid construction and higher optical correction which can also be used for color work is in preparation."
"Parabolic sound concentrators have long been investigated for application to military antiaircraft location, radio broadcasting, and motion picture recording. Olson and Wolff, of the Radio Corporation of America, developed a combination horn-reflector concentrator in 1929. Obata and Yosida, of Tokyo University, published measurements of amplification in 1930. Hanson, of the National Broadcasting Company, described the use of parabolic reflectors in broadcasting in 1931. Dreher reported in 1931 on the use of microphone concentrators in motion picture production. Sato and Sasao published the results of tests on the sound fields of deep parabolic reflectors in 1932. — Rocard published an analysis of the theory of the amplification of the reflector-type parabola in 1932. Schneider of the Moscow Radio Center made amplification and directivity measurements in 1935 while studying the application of parabolic concentrators to Russian broadcasting and checked his amplification data with Rocard's theory. Gutin, in Leningrad, independently derived the theory of amplification and went on to analyze directivity in 1935. — This paper presents the pertinent historical background and reports on an experimental verification of the theoretical acoustical directivity of parabolic concentrators as well as further checks of the amplification theory. The sound fields inside parabolic reflectors have also been investigated experimentally with an agreement found with theoretical fields calculated by principles of geometrical optics."
"Extensive experimental work on safety cine film support has resulted in an improved product which offers possibilities for professional motion picture use. — This product is a highly acetylated cellulose acetate with physical properties which are considerably different from those of ordinary commercial cellulose acetate previously used. Certain improved physical characteristics and improved aging properties of this base material are described in detail. — As a cine positive film support the high-acetyl cellulose acetate is shown to give satisfactory behavior in printing, processing, and projection operations and compares favorably with present standard release positive film. — Experimental studies on the use of the high-acetyl base for 35-mm negative film are described showing that this base will lend itself to use for negative materials. Particularly important is the fact that this base offers a very low degree of shrinkage on long time keeping."
"The transformation of moving color-film images into video signals is accomplished with the most faithful rendition when the pickup tube is of the continuous-cathode, or nonstorage type. This, however, imposes the limitation that the film motion, in the associated film scanner, be constant in velocity, rather than intermittent. In the color-film scanner of the Columbia Broadcasting System, the pickup tube is the Farnsworth daylight image dissector. An optical-electronic method, requiring no moving optical parts, is used to compensate for the continuous motion of the film."
"A studio type of process projector, designed and built to meet the specifications as set forth by the Motion Picture Research Council Committee, is described. Both the single- and the triple-head projectors are discussed."
"The new system employs sectoral high-frequency horns and a crossover frequency of 800 cycles. Improvement is obtained in uniformity of distribution and reduction of size and weight."
"Here is described a recently installed modern cabinet-type re-recording equipment, having a completely new approach in design and operation. Radically new, but proved features have been incorporated for ease and economy in installation, operation, and maintenance. The over-all functional design is based on original concepts by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and includes the manufacturer's recent basic developments in film-pulling mechanisms and optical systems."
"The purpose of this paper is to explain the organization, functions, and activities of the Motion Picture Research Council, Inc. A brief résumé of the Council's history and the reasons for its reorganization will be given as an introduction."
"This paper will cover in a general way some of the things which have been done at the Walter Reed General Hospital with 16-mm films and at the same time will offer a few suggestions which, it is believed, will help to improve the motion picture industry so far as the 16-mm non- theatrical field is concerned."
"This Report describes motion picture studio-lighting power sources and completes a series of reports covering all phases of studio-lighting equipment. 1-4"
"The Paper entitled “Proposals for 16-Mm and 8-Mm Sprocket Standards,” by J. S. Chandler, D. F. Lyman, and L. R. Martin, was published in the June, 1947, issue of the Journal of the SMPE for the purpose of inviting comment on the work that has been done on the design of sprockets. Discussion by letter was received from Mr. E. W. Kellogg of the Radio Corporation of America in which he questioned the propriety of the sprocket proposals as American Standards. Mr. Kellogg's letter was not received in time to be published at the same time as the paper; however, a notice appeared with the paper stating; that Mr. Kellogg's discussion and a reply from the authors would appear at a later date. Them two letters are published here."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"This is the twelfth volume of the Digest of Literature on Dielectrics and covers the calendar year 1948. Articles published earlier than 1948, but not available in this country until now, have been included."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The most outstanding developments in the field of dielectrics in the year 1948 seem to have been directed toward applications outside of the field of electrical insulation, but will undoubtedly furnish a better understanding of the fundamental behavior of insulators. The progress in lines directly related to electrical insulation seems to have been steady, but not spectacular. There has been a large amount of publication and, from all the research, some instances where new and apparently promising directions have been taken will be mentioned."
"The general and theoretical section of the 1948 Digest consists primarily of theoretical and experimental work on dielectric polarization and absorption, conductivity, and closely related phenomena. The subject matter has been arranged in the following subsections: (1) Theories of Dielectric Polarization and Absorption, (2) Experimental Examination of Theories (referring mainly to theories of polarization and absorption), (3) Molecular Structure (including investigations where the emphasis is on the interpretation of molecular structure and behavior from measurements of dielectric phenomena), (4) Experimental Values of Dielectric Properties (dealing mainly with the determination of dielectric constants, power factors and electric moments with little or no emphasis on interpretation), and (5) Miscellaneous items, including conductivity, double layer phenomena, electro viscosity effects, electrets, etc."
"The calibration of capacitors at the National Physical Laboratory in Britain is discussed in a paper by Rayner and Ford.1 Their primary standard of reactance is a standard inductor which is used to calibrate capacitors with a Carey-Foster Bridge. Then a precision Schering Bridge is used for comparing capacitors with an error of ± 1 in 10,000 and ± .00002 in power factor. L. H. ford2 has measured the effect of humidity on the capacitance end power factor of precision air capacitors and notes that changes in capacitance of 3 in 10,000 are noted at relative humidity of 65%. This is more than the amount predicted by the change in the dielectric constant of air by the water vapor. The power factor also increases at relative humidity above 40% reaching 0.00008 at 65% R.H. The measurements were made so as to eliminate the effect of insulators. New standards of very small capacitance from 0.001 to 100 F were developed by Moon and Sparks3 in which they placed the measuring electrode at the bottom of a well with the guard electrode surrounding it and much closer to the opposite electrode."
"The theories proposed for the breakdown of solids (outlined in last year's review) give general order-of-magnitude agreement with the experimental values available. But in order to go more closely into the process and make finer distinctions, data for a wide range of conditions are needed. Three papers have appeared this year which represent steps in this direction: K. W. Plessner on thin films, K. J. Keller on the temperature dependence of dielectric strength and J. W. Davisson on the temperature dependence of the direction of breakdown paths."
"In 1948, greater use was made of dielectric heating particularly in the woodworking industry (11,12,13). Some work was done on the melting and cooking of frozen foods (1), the welding of thermoplastics (7), drying applications (16), sterilization (7), the vulcanization of rubber (9), and even to the heating of vegetable tissue (16)."
"With this issue of the “Digest of the Literature on Dielectrics,” a new section on semiconductors is being included. It may seem a little unexpected for conducting materials to be covered by a publication normally dealing with insulators. Modern theories of the solid state, however, have revealed the intimate relations existing between all types of solids; so the section represents an extension of ideas rather than a breach of principle. There is an equally cogent practical reason for this coverage in view of the present interest in circuit elements involving semiconductors, e.g. crystal rectifiers and, more recently, the semiconducting triode, the transistor. These developments have enormously stimulated research on fundamental problems on the electronic energy states in solids, the process of conduction, and on phenomena at metal-semiconductor contacts; the results of which may be expected to add materially to our understanding of the properties of solids of all types."
"In the year 1948, there was considerable activity in the study of ceramics containing barium titanate, in the preparation and study of single crystals and in the development of new commercial applications for barium titanate ceramics."
"Ceramic materials present a number of important advantages over other types of solid insulating materials, such as stability and high heat resistance. Certain disadvantages cannot be overlooked however, such as poor heat shock resistance, brittleness, or limitations in forming. It is quite obvious that the trend of ceramic insulation research in general leads toward the improvement of the less desirable properties, besides producing novel compositions. The year 1948 was no exception in this respect. There is also another trend noticeable, the combination of ceramic insulating materials with conducting elements in electrical circuits. This may be for the purpose of hermetic sealing of components or printing of circuits on ceramic surfaces. Increased activities along these lines are quite obvious by the number of patents obtained in 1948 on metal-ceramic seals."
"Following a systematic investigation using laboratory procedures previously developed, Piper(1) et al contributed further significant data on the fundamental causes of electrical losses occurring in insulating oils and oil-impregnated papers. Addition of asphalt to a refined oil was shown to cause the oil to have a relatively high power factor and high conductivity. The conductivity appeared to be almost independent of the frequency of the impressed voltage. The asphalt-oil mixtures were similar in properties to those of oil solutions of electrolytic dissociable materials, such as lauryl sulfonic acid. Both asphalt and lauryl sulfonic acid mineral oil solutions are strongly absorbed by paper when used as impregnants. However, :the low frequency (60 cycles) a.c. equivalent conductivity of the paper impregnated with the asphalt-oil mixtures is lower than the conductivity of the solution itself, while the reverse is true for the lauryl sulfonic acid-oil solutions. In the latter system, the increase in the lauryl sulfonic acid-oil-paper conductivity (over that of the base oil-paper conductivity) is shown to be caused by dielectric absorption, while in the paper-asphalt-oil system, the slight increase is largely caused by conduction alone. The authors suggest that this difference in behavior provides a means for determining whether high conductivity in an insulating oil is caused primarily by electrolytically dissociable materials, such as acids, or by colloidally dispersed materials, such as asphalt. The procedure for this determination would be to examine the 60 cycle conductivity of the oil alone and when impregnated in filter paper. An increase in conductivity of the oil-paper compared with the oil alone would indicate predominately electrolytically dissociable types; while a decrease would indicate colloidal types of contaminants in the oil."
"About forty organic compounds and also sulfur were tested by Berberich and Friedman1 for effectiveness as stabilizers of chlorinated diphenyl in paper capacitors. Small percentages of each of these materials were dissolved in Aroclor 1254 and capacitors were impregnated with these solutions. In these tests, the impregnated units were kept at 85°C or 100°C and a d-c voltage of 1000 volts per mil was impressed on them. The time required for the units to fail was recorded and this was used as. the criterion of stabilizing effect of the compounds. It was found that among the compounds tested, those which were most effective in prolonging the life of capacitors were azobenzene, azoxybenzene, anthroquinone, benzil, dinitrobenzil, O-nitrodiphenyl, dinitrotoluene and sulfur. The stabilizing effect of several of these compounds on chlorinated diphenyl was also studied in a conductivity cell thus eliminating paper from the system. It was found that when chlorinated diphenyl was saturated with HCl, its specific conductance increased almost 100-fold over that of the pure material. The addition of aluminum to the HCl saturated solution caused the conductance to rise sharply again and when it had increased another 120-fold, some. stabilizer was added to the solution. A small decrease in conductance resulted from this initially, but in a short time, it again increased but at a much slower rate than that prior to the addition of stabilizer. Other experiments were carried out in which aluminum foil was boiled in carbon tetrachloride with and without stabilizers present. The stabilizers produced a marked decrease in the rate of attack on the aluminum. Also in one experiment, aluminum foil was pretreated with benzene solutions of the stabilizers and it was then boiled in carbon tetrachloride where it rapidly dissolved. From these experimental observations, the authors have evolved a theory of the mechanism of stabilization of chlorinated impregnants in aluminum foil capacitors. They contend that chlorinated diphenyl decomposes in a d-c field yielding HCl at a certain rate. The HCl in turn reacts with aluminum to form aluminum chloride which hastens the decomposition of the chlorinated diphenyl. Thus, the series of reactions is autocatalytic. The role of the stabilizer, according to the authors is to interrupt the cycle by forming a complex with the aluminum chloride and inactivating it."
"All synthetic organic plastics, it seems pretty safe to say, are to a greater or less degree electrical insulating materials or dielectrics, except when they have been deliberately modified by addition of conductive fillers. For the purposes of this review, therefore, the literature on plastics, even when not dealing specifically with electrical properties and electrical applications, is considered to be an important part of the literature on dielectrics in general, and as such to be of interest and concern to the electrical engineer and to the research worker in the field of dielectrics."
"The announcement was made a little over a year ago that GR-S could be polymerized at low temperatures rapidly enough to make the process practicable. The so-called “cold rubbers” have not had much intensive testing. The results indicate that this has been the most important development in synthetic rubbers in several years."
"The following topics are dealt with: dielectric materials, properties and devices; cable insulation; and insulating materials."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"To meet its own needs and those of other Government agencies, and to fulfill its normal function of providing standards, the National Bureau of Standards is in the process of obtaining facilities for making precision dielectric measurements in the 10 kc to 300 Mc frequency range. The work described in this paper is that of the High-Frequency Standards Section of the Bureau's Central Radio Propagation Laboratory. There are other groups at the Bureau actively engaged in dielectric measurements above and below this frequency range. The apparatus used by the various groups permits overlapping measurements for intercomparison."
"The cell, shown in Fig. 1, consists primarily of two quartz tubes, upon which are fastened metal electrodes. One quartz tube is mounted on a movable carriage rolling on invar rods which serve as ways. The other tube is rigidly mounted on the bed. A large metal cylinder encloses the electrodes, forming a resonant cavity, which may be modified for use at lower frequencies by switching in one of a series of coils. At audio frequencies connection can be made to a bridge."
"Power factor measurements by resonant circuit techniques are limited by losses in the resonant circuit. Essentially the methods in use measure the loss, or Q of the circuit under the two conditions: (a) dielectric sample in the circuit and (b) sample out. Sample losses are obtained by the difference of the two measurements, and in the case of polystyrene and similar low loss dielectrics at radio frequencies (1-100 mcps) the difference is a small fraction of the directly measured losses."
"The present method employs the very commonplace phenomenon of timing a parallel combination of inductance and capacitance to resonance. In Fig. 1 a constant voltage E is applied to the L C tuning circuit and C is varied until the current I is a minimum. This residual current is a measure of the total loss of the tank circuit. This loss may be indicated by a figure in mhos conductance, that is the quotient of I/E. When a specimen Cx is placed across condenser C and the circuit retuned a greater residual current results. The change in the setting of C is a measure of the specimen capacitance and the increase in mhos conductance is a measure of the specimen loss."
"When capacitor paper is subjected to electrical stress, large variations in durability are noted from lot to lot. These variations cannot, except in rare cases, be correlated with the usual chemical and physical tests made on such paper. We have indications that the variable characteristics of most significance in regard to durability are probably physical and structural in nature. The mercury electrode test described here is a method of investigating the physical structure of-capacitor paper by which certain striking structural deficiencies may be detected."
"Actual defects, as well as areas of low resistance to the penetration of moisture, can be detected on coated insulating materials; and the spreading of these areas can be recorded by a modification of the electrographic printing method."
"Some time ago a survey of the electric power companies showed that the dielectric strength measurement was the one test most relied upon to determine whether insulating oils were satisfactory for initial service and for continued service in both oil cooled electric equipment and electric switch gear. Its popularity as a service test is probably due in part to being simple to perform and in part to the fact that a number of contaminants which adversely effect service operations tend to lower the dielectric strength of insulating fluids."
"The equipment used in this work consists of a very stable 2000 watt radio transmitter, an r.f. transformer with tuned secondary, an immersion type specimen cell and a vacuum tube voltmeter. Figure 1 shows the circuit arrangement of these components."
"In industrial high frequency dielectric heating, heating cycles involving rates of temperature increase up to three hundred or four hundred degrees (F) per minute are common. It is important to know the values of the dielectric properties of the substance heated over the whole range of the heating cycle. Conventional methods of measurement, such as ASTM shunted susceptance, are not available as they all involve the steady state, and such low values of stress that there will be no appreciable loss or rise of temperature during the measurement."
"The mechanism of electrical failures at power frequency is fairly well established and accepted. An analysis of the process helps to correlate the observed performance of cable insulation and to explain the underlying characteristics of the different types. It appears also that dielectric failures of any solid or quasi-solid body are of the same general character. This discussion is not intended to cover the case for d-c."
"During the dissection of cable from an experimental installation of 120-kv, high-pressure, gas-filled cable, “dry” spots of an unfamiliar appearance were noted in the individual tapes of the oil-impregnated paper insulation. These “dry” spots were generally of small diameter and appeared in clusters, in the aggregate giving the paper surface a “peppered” appearance. When viewed by reflected light, the spots appeared lighter than the unaffected portions of the paper, and when viewed with transmitted light, the spots appeared darker. Microscopic examination gave evidence, of the presence of clusters of gas bubbles within the paper tapes at the “dry” spots."
"Stop joints are desirable in pipe-encased gas-pressure cable lines both to facilitate the location of leaks that may develop and to save gas should the gas escape from one section because of alterations or accident. The saving of the gas is particularly desirable for high-pressure cable lines in areas where the supply of immediately available gas is limited."
"One of the problems encountered when evaluating the dielectric constant and power factor of either impregnated or unimpregnated paper is the variation in apparent density of the sheets. It is important to know whether measured differences in the electrical properties are due to differences in sheet density or to differences in the fibers themselves."
"Standard methods of locating faults in insulated cables are very well-known, particularly the use of the loop tests, Murray Loop and Varley Loop, etc., also comparative capacity tests for opens and comparative inductance tests for shorts. The above methods are very common, and wherever the faulty cable is paralleled by a good cable, such methods are the most accurate where tests are made from the ends of the cable and the distance to the fault must be computed. Wherever possible, of course, it is desirable to locate a cable fault to an exact spot by a test on the cable itself, but in many cases this is impossible for one reason or another. Where faulty cables are not paralleled by good ones, the testing has always been of a more complicated nature, and numerous methods have been proposed to accomplish the desired result."
"The transmission of electrical impuleses from a pick-up device to an amplifier is usually accomplished through a microphone cable, which has metallic braid shielding to eliminate spurious impulses. While this has been satisfactory in short lengths, the use of longer lengths has shown that pick-up of mechanical vibration or shock introduces serious problems where faithful transmission of the desired signal is a prime requisite. This is aggravated after severe abuse by the “noise” caused by broken strands of the shielding braid making intermittent contact."
"Luminous sign cables are high-voltage cables without being generally recognized as such. They have a conductor of stranded copper, an insulation of natural or synthetic rubber (thermosetting), or of an extruded thermoplastic compound, and are finished in a variety of finishes: with saturated or lacquered braids (textile, glass) or with a vulcanized or extruded synthetic jacket. For reasons of economy luminous sign cables have no metal shield."
"The development of rubber insulations capable of maintaining good electrical characteristics indefinitely in wet locations has made possible the manufacture of non-leaded underground cable."
"By use of silicone insulation and cold-rolled oriented silicon steel cores, dry-type transformers, with at least one-third less weight and volume compared with Class B insulation and having, up to forty percent weight reduction over oil-filled units, have been developed. Three basic types of transformers are considered."
"At the outset it was observed that the flexibility of phenyl methyl silicone varnished glass fabric was very variable. One. lot of the material was found to have satisfactory flexibility, while the next lot might be otherwise, in that it is “too stiff”, thus making it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to work or pull the material into position without mechanically damaging the varnish film, thereby making the material practically useless. It was soon recognized that if the phenyl methyl silicone varnish film could be plasticized this should be the answer to the problem of non-flexibility, providing there was no substantial sacrifice in the inherent properties of the phenyl methyl silicone resin."
"Fiberglas cloth, in order to be successfully used for high temperature cable insulation, must be given a special water-repellent and heat-treatment at 650°F to 700°F before coating. When this treated cloth is properly impregnated with 996 silicone resin or 123 silastic rubber and cured at temperatures of 500 to 650°F., the resultant product gives excellent performance at elevated temperatures."
"One of the important, functions of insulating varnishes is to provide protection against the entrance of moisture and dirt within the insulation system of electrical apparatus. A considerable amount of effort has been spent in studying the effect of moisture on the electrical properties of insulating varnishes as well as the moisture transmissivity of perfect varnish films. However, to be effective in the practical application, the varnish must provide an initially continuous film which maintains its integrity under operating conditions."
"Tung oil mixed with anhydrous ferric chloride solution is a very desirable filling compound for many applications because it will gel at room temperatures in a comparatively short time. The data presented here give some information regarding the insulation resistance of tung oil hardened by anhydrous ferric chloride and answer some of the questions which have arisen in connection with the practical application of this compound."
"In any discussion of the electrical properties of cellulose plastics, it is realized that the power factors of any of the cellulose nitrates, acetates, propionates and ethyl cellulose are not as low as some other type's, but this very fact may be an advantage in certain applications. The use of dielectric heating in molding or fabricating is one of these. Since the heat developed due to dielectric loss is proportional to the product of frequency and loss factor, for a fixed voltage gradient, a knowledge of the variation of loss factor with frequency is necessary to the proper application of dielectric heating."
"Ceramic dielectrics, as we know them today, are quite different from those in use 25 years ago. In fact, at the turn of the century, the American ceramic literature only briefly and sparingly mentions ceramic dielectrics. In 1901 and 1902 A. S. Watts writes on porcelain insulators stating that, “The essential properties of an electrical insulator are: first, that it possess, first of all, a high efficiency as a non-conductor; second, that it stand, without snapping, any reasonable strain put upon it by the exigencies of wiring; third, that it withstand the blows of missiles, even bullets, without, breaking”."
"The electrical conductivity of silicate glasses has been examined very thoroughly by many workers and is fairly well understood. Low temperature conductivity is the result of monovalent cations, Na+, K+ and in some instances H+ migrating through an otherwise rigid framework of SiO4 tetrahedra. The interpretation of the dielectric behavior of glasses requires a more detailed picture of their atomic structure especially of their surfaces."
"Although there is a record of the Westinghouse Company having applied for a patent, and possibly having made some tiny flakes of synthetic mica, the first sizable pieces were made by the Germans. Several pieces were produced that measured over four square inches. However, this appears to have been a rare occurrence, and the Germans never got out of the early experimental stages, and did not produce the mica commercially; in fact, no stock of such mica was ever found in Germany, and the fabricators of that product did not know anything about it."
"The nature of the insulating film formed on 99.99% pure aluminium electrodes when subjected to high voltages in a solution of boric acid was investigated in an attempt to explain its assymetric electrical behavior in electrolytic capacitors."
"The steadily increasing use of electrical components at higher voltages and altitudes has presented a problem in the design of bushings to meet the requirements of being corona-or radio-interference-free in the range of 10,000 volts and altitudes of 50,000 feet. There have been several papers written about the problem but with no concrete design procedure given. In this paper a design procedure is presented with some test results verifying the design."
"The advent of single or multiple oxide ceramic compositions wholly lacking in clay, and hence in plasticity, has necessitated the development of new forming techniques. One such technique employs organic, thermo-plastic resins for the development of plasticity and bond."
"It is well known in the case of ferromagnetic metals that permeability falls with increasing frequency because the domains begin to lag in their orientation. Above this range of the Barkhausen noise a further steep decrease takes place between about 108 and 1010 cycles/sec. until the permeability is practically reduced to that of free space. The cause for this second decline has been sought in eddy current opposing the turning of the magnetic moments or in skin-effect limiting the penetration depth of the magnetic field."
"Dielectrics having compositions in the system 3CaO:TiO2-BaTiO3-TiO2 were matured (less than 0.1 percent absorption) at 1260° to 1500°C. Data are given for the compositions, heat treatments, absorption, shrinkage, and for K, the dielectric constant, and Q, the reciprocal of the power factor at 25°C and frequencies of 50, 1000, and 20,000 kc/s, and at 3,000 mc/s when K is not greater than 50. Values of K were also determined at 1 mc/s and various temperatures from -60° to +85°C. At 25°C and 1 mc/s, K ranged from 34 to 2670 and Q from 27 to 10,000. Lowest values of Q were associated with specimens of high baria content. The values of K decreased and those of Q increased for several weeks after the dielectrics. Were matured when the percentage of titania was less than 50 and that of baria greater than about 30. Linear thermal expansion (25° to 700°C) ranged from 0.65 to 0.87 percent. The specimens of composition 3CaO:TiO2 disintegrated after a few weeks when exposed to room conditions, and all the dielectrics containing less than 50 percent of titania and greater than about 30 percent of calcia deteriorated greatly in Q value after storage for a year."
"The dielectric constant of certain polar wax-like capacitor impregnants can be significantly increased in the solid state by melting these materials and then allowing them to solidify in an electric field. The field must be maintained until the wax has solidified completely. This increase is permanent so far as is now known provided the wax is not remelted, If the wax is again melted and allowed to solidify without an impressed field the dielectric constant reverts to its original value."
"A systematic study has been made of the permanent surface charges, which can be produced on discs of carnauba wax and lead to the formation of the electret. Different electrical and thermal treatments have been used-A complete experimental cycle included a) application of the polarizing voltage concomitant with thermal treatment, b) period of short-circuit at room temperature, and c) reheating, The current J(t) in the external circuit and the charge q(t) of one of the electrodes of the capacitor containing the sample were measured during the application of the polarizing field and after withdrawal of the field and short-circuiting. The charge of the electrode was measured with the aid of an improved dissectible capacitor (Fig. 1); the capacitor was placed inside a desiccator, humidity being lower than 5%. Never during one cycle was the sample removed from the capacitor; thus uncontrolled handling of the sample was avoided and the problem reduced to its proper terms, i.e., the realization of quantitative measurements of the external current and of the charge of the electrodes of a capacitor containing a solid dielectric."
"The purpose of this study was to obtain information on the initial ionization in a hydrocarbon by electronic bombardment. Paraffin wax, because of its low d-c conductivity, was chosen. A thin layer of paraffin wax, prepared in a stainless steel cell, was subjected to a d-c voltage until the charging current disappeared. A radioactive source was then placed on top of the sample without disturbing the electric circuit, and the increase of conductivity with time measured. The increase is first rapid, then rather slow, and approaches an equilibrium value. By removing the radioactive source, the original conductivity is gradually restored. Measurements of this kind were repeated with different voltages, different thicknesses of paraffin and two radioactive sources, namely uranium (2.3 Mev electrons from protactinium 234) and carbon 14 (0.14. Mev electrons)."
"The dielectric constants of pure samples of four normal long-chain bromides and four normal long-chain alcohols were measured as a function of temperature at 0.25, 0.5,5.0, 50 and, in one case, at 525 kc. to obtain information on the relationship between the molecular structure of solids and their dielectric properties. Long-chain molecules present the interesting possibility of rotation about the long molecular axis, in the solid state. If the rotating molecules contain dipoles, orientation polarization, and hence a high dielectric constant corresponding to rotation should be observed below the freezing point. This effect was observed in n-C22H45Br and n-C14H29OH, and n-C18H37OH. The dielectric constants of these compounds in the rotator phase were shown to be consistent with that expected for rotation about-the long molecular axes of all the molecules. Similar freedom of molecular rotation was not shown by the dielectric constants of n-C12H25OH, n-C12H25Br, n-C16H33Br and n-C18H37Br in the solid state. All the molecules with rotation in the solid phase showed a transition temperature where the dielectric constant dropped sharply indicating that much of the molecular rotation had disappeared. These dielectric transitions coincided with thermal transitions as observed by cooling curves."
"The dielectric constants and loss factors of twenty-seven liquid organic halides have been measured at 1.27 and 3.2.2 cm. wavelength and used, together with certain additional measurements at 10 cm. and with measurements of viscosities, densities and refractive indices, to examine the accuracy of the equations for dielectric behavior and the relations between dielectric relaxation and molecular structure. The method of measurement employs the variation in the reflection coefficient of a uniform dielectric layer as the depth of the layer is varied, A short-circuiting plunger terminates the dielectric layer and a directional coupler is used to measure the power reflected from this plunger. The calculations involve only the ratio of the amplitudes of the reflected waves for two different lengths of the dielectric-filled guide, the free-space wavelength, the wavelength in the air-filled guide, and the wavelength in the dielectric medium."
"The second rotational transition, J=1 to J=2, of SiH3Cl35 and SiH3Cl37 has been measured and analysed. The Hughes-Wilson Stark modulation technique was used for detection of the absorption lines; and absorption frequencies were determined by comparison with a crystal-controlled secondary frequency standard."
"Recent measurements of specific heats, and accurate equation-of-state data for hydrogen cyanide have indicated substantial amounts of polymerization in the vapor state. Despite many previous, determinations of its dipole moment, no note of any effect that polymerization may have on the moment has been found in the literature. An attempt to find such an effect, and to correlate it quantitatively with the specific heat and density data now available, was the object of these measurements."
"Interest in this problem arose on observing that equipment operating at high unidirectional voltages and at relative humidities of 55% to 75% exhibited erratic and rather low breakdown strength. Electrode configuration was indicated as an important variable in the problem, A literature search revealed little quantitative information on the d-c breakdown voltage of air gaps."
"Progress along two lines of research was reported. First, viscosities of synthetic polyelectrolytes (obtained by adding butyl bromide to polyvinyl-pyridine) were measured in a series of mixtures of nitromethane and dioxane, covering the range of 40 to 16 in dielectric constant. It was found that the ratio of specific viscosity to concentration increased with dilution, in a way similar to the behavior of the same electrolyte in aqueous solutions. Furthermore, the addition of a simple one-one electrolyte (tetrabutylammonium bromide) to these solutions decreased the viscosity ratio at a given concentration, again paralleling the observations on aqueous solutions. The increase in reduced viscosity with dilution is assumed to be a consequence of decreased association of the small counter ions with the large polycations on dilution; the resulting increased intramolecular repulsion between unpaired positive charges causes the polymer chain to expand, and thereby increases, the hydrodynamic interaction which produces the viscosity rise. The experimental results in all solvents studied so far can be summarized by the empirical formula z = D + A/(1 + B + √c) where z is reduced viscosity (specific viscosity over concentration), c is concentration, A and D are constants which depend on the molecular weight of the poly-electrolyte and B is. a constant which depends on the dielectric constant of the solvent."
"While the sequence of events leading to electric breakdown in gases is today fairly well understood, research in the case of solids asks still the basic question about the mechanisms causing the destruction of dielectrics under high field-strength. This lag in advance is partly inherent in the experimental difficulties of handling such fields, and partly-due to the complexities of the solid state. Solid insulation may suffer breakdown in various ways, by thermal activation of charge carriers or chemical decomposition, by dendrite formation or electron trapping, and finally, when these types of destruction are avoided, by electronic impact ionization. It is the purpose of the present paper to re-evaluate the mechanism of this last and limiting breakdown type in the light of new evidence."
"The function of trapping centers in dielectrics has been discussed by Fröhlich1 who postulates the existence of energy levels due to such centers to explain the breakdown characteristics of amorphous solids at high temperatures. Meyer and Herman2 have also considered the effect of such centers on breakdown at low temperatures. The purpose of the present paper is to determine the charge distribution and energy levels of two types of such centers, viz. interstitial ions and F-centers. Such information should be useful in determining the relative importance of these two types of center and may give a rough idea of the concentration at which interference between electrons in trapping centers becomes important."
"Sintered semiconductors of various compositions were described in a previous paper, with special emphasis on sintered materials with zero temperature co-efficient of resistance. The material was described as an electrical network, the resistance of which was composed of the total of the particle resistances and the resistances between the particles called contact resistances. Figure 1 shows a diagrammatic sketch of a sintered material composed of three components and the electrical network which characterizes this material. The material with a. low or practically zero temperature coefficient of resistance was composed of 72% ZrO2, 23% magnesium-silicate (talc) and 5% graphite. It was observed that the graphite particle size greatly affects the resistance of the material and its temperature coefficient, and further it-was found that a slight variation in particle size or a change in the mixing procedure changes the temperature coefficient from plus to minus, as shown in Figure 2."
"In order to define clearly the problem of selecting materials for use as semiconductor heating elements, a review of the literature has been made from 113 source references and resistivity data has been compiled for 43 substances. The chief significance of the electrical properties of these substances lies not in their values of resistivity but in the tremendous variation of ρ when subjected to chemical and thermal treatment. In the category of semiconductors are the oxides, sulphides, halides, carbides, nitrides, selenides, and tellurides of certain metals. Several monatomic solids such as Si, Ge and Te. and C (graphite) are also usually classed as semiconductors, as are the mixtures of metallic powders and insulators described by Hausner1,2 ."
"The new anomalous electrical response recently found1 in simple ionic crystals has been studied in crystals of alkali halides containing foreign ions. The results obtained shed considerable light on the nature of the phenomenon in the pure crystal, and, in addition, indicate that it is possible to study the diffusion of foreign ions in ionic crystals with this method."
"Three of the alkali halides (LiF, NaCl and KBr) have been used' as integrating crystal detectors for X and cathode rays with energies up to 3 million volts. The dosage measurements were based on the photoelectric and optical absorption characteristics of crystals colored by X-ray and cathode ray bombardment. Doses ranging from 20 to 105 roentgens were measured photoelectrically with the crystal arrangement illustrated schematically in Fig. 1 After the crystal has become colored by photon or particle bombardment, the color centers, electrons trapped at halogen ion lattice vacancies, are released by illumination in the color band while an electric field is applied. The resulting photo-currents, which drop essentially to zero in a few minures due to the space charge which builds up in the crystal, were recorded, and the charge Qc representing the area under the photo-current curve was measured as a function of the X-ray dose, Qc increases with the X-ray dose as shown in Fig. 2 for KBr crystals."
