"A brief discussion of the problem is given, together with a description of the three proposed methods of solution. The results of a practical experiment are shown, and curves calculated by the three methods are compared with the observed results. It is shown that the BBC method gives field strengths much nearer to the observed values than the P. P. Eckersley method, and that the method proposed by Millington, while somewhat more laborious to use, also gives results which agree well with observed values. The difference between the three methods is small at low frequencies and when the effect of the discontinuity is not large."
"This paper describes three different types of automatic-frequency-control circuits: (1) sawtooth type, (2) sine-wave type, and (3) pulse-time type. The sawtooth system forms a sawtooth from the pulse present across the deflection yoke. This sawtooth is compared in phase with the synchronizing pulse to produce a control voltage for frequency phase control of the sweep circuit. The sine-wave type comprises a stable sine-wave oscillator which is controlled in phase and frequency by the synchronizing pulse, and in turn controls the sweep circuit. The pulse-time system measures the area of the synchronizing pulse as it rests on the edge of a shelf. Phase variations change this area, and provide information to control the sweep circuit."
"Although superregeneration is usually discussed as a nonlinear problem, the linear mode is an example of a linear circuit problem with a time-varying parameter. The present analysis determines the effect on the behavior of a tuned circuit when its damping factor is subjected to sinusoidal variation. The amplitude and frequency of this variation are considered the fundamental parameters which distinguish the superregenerator from an ordinary resonant circuit. Sensitivity and selectivity are studied as functions of these parameters. It is shown that the solution of the differential equation predicts the phenomenon of multiple resonance and other wellknown properties of a superregenerator in the linear mode."
"The development of a pulse generator and a modulator which will produce pulses of 10-7second duration and 3,000-volt amplitude at a 1-Mc recurrence frequency is described. The modulator is developed for the special case of a nonlinear load impedance consisting of 125 μμf capacitance for the leading half of the pulse and a spark discharge for the trailing half. The high recurrence frequency gives rise to problems not generally encountered in the design of pulse circuits. Other applications, such as the second modulation of a high-recurrence-frequency pulsed carrier with voice frequencies, suggest themselves. A new pulse-generating circuit, capable of producing positive pulses whose duration is one-tenth the period of the 1-Mc input sine wave, is developed. This pulse generator can be operated at moderate power levels sufficient to drive the modulator."
"The comparison between traveling-wave-tube circuits of different geometries can be facilitated by the use of phase velocity, group velocity, and stored energy as parameters. For a given stored energy per unit length, lowering the group velocity with respect to the phase velocity increases circuit impedance (and, hence, gain), increases attenuation, and narrows the band. A filter-type circuit consisting of pillbox resonators is shown to be much inferior electrically to a helix. Expressions are presented showing the effect of gap length in filter-type circuits consisting of pillbox resonators, and the attenuation is calculated for such circuits."
"The effect of the locations of the poles and zeros of the transfer function of a linear dynamic system on the locations and the magnitudes of the maxima and minima of the transient response resulting from the application of a step-function input to the system is studied. Consideration is given to the necessary conditions for the production of a monotonic time response, expressed in terms of the pole and zero locations. In general, the results of the investigation are limited to stable low-pass systems, having only first-order poles and no poles on the jω axis. A method of computing the locations and magnitudes of the maxima and minima in the time response is given which allows the calculations to be made in a straightforward and efficient manner. The evaluation of the transient performance of many practical lowpass systems can be simplified considerably by the use of this method. It is shown that, under certain conditions of pole and zero locations, the normalized time response may be well approximated by a single dominant time term. Methods of ascertaining from the pole and zero pattern whether these conditions exist are given. On the basis of the dominant-term approximation, a method is outlined for the design of pole and zero patterns to yield prescribed time-response characteristics of a certain class to step-function inputs. Constant overshoot-factor curves and charts are provided for this purpose and for rapid solution of analysis problems when applicable."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Methods of quality control in the radio-tube manufacturing industry are surveyed. Typical mount-inspection service, use of statistical control charts, and sampling procedures are discussed."
"A comprehensive study of the performance characteristics of Du Mont television station WABD, New York, N.Y., embracing a new measuring technique, is discussed. A comparison of theoretical and experimental data is illustrated by photographs and charts indicating receiving conditions within the service area. Pertinent information concerning various interference problems is also considered."
"The determination of the distribution of a series of physical events according to magnitude is important in the study of the associated physical laws. Previous methods of determining this magnitude distribution were slow and cumbersome. Three new electronic systems which operate on events at a very high rate have been developed by the author while at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and these are described. The analyzers can be used to determine the magnitude distribution of any series of physical events, if the characteristic under observation can be translated into a proportional voltage pulse. Two applications are discussed, and the advantages of the analyzers over other systems are shown."
"The addition of a high-frequency component to an audio signal which is to be recorded magnetically results in a low-distortion, linear recording characteristic under certain conditions. This paper gives a graphical method for constructing the recording characteristic from the BRversus H curve of the record material. An analysis accounts for such magnetic-recording characteristics as variation in sensitivity with bias, linearity at low recording levels, adjustment for maximum sensitivity, and adjustment for minimum distortion."
"Considering the equivalent circuit of a simple shunt-resonant four-terminal network, including loss, equations are derived permitting the calculation of unloaded and doubly loaded Q's, and the resonant frequency, from standing-wave-ratio or transmission-coefficient measurement at three arbitrary frequencies or wave-lengths. The equations are then put in a convenient form for data taken on a \"triple-pipper impedance bridge.\" Finally, the equations are given for the same type of measurement for a two-terminal network, giving the unloaded and loaded Q's."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"On April 1, 1946, Clinton B. DeSoto (M'46-SM'49) assumed the duties of technical editor of the Proceedings of the IRE. Born in Ogilvie, Minnesota, in 1912, he attended the University of Wisconsin's School of Journalism. After his acceptance of the position of Technical Editor, Mr. DeSoto capably fulfilled the duties of his post, and added substantially to the clarity, arrangement, and promptness of issuance of the Proceedings of the IRE. Clinton DeSoto, scholar, gentleman, and capable administrator, leaves behind him a host of grieving friends. He combined literary skill, unusual ability to bring out the best in his associates, and unfailing willingness successfully to handle any task, no matter how troublesome or time-consuming. The IRE, whose Technical Editor he has been, has lost one of its finest representatives, and deeply regrets his untimely passing."
"The importance of meteorological effects in tropospheric transmission has been presented by the authors in previous papers. More extended observations in the 40- to 50-Mc band, recently analyzed, substantiate high correlations with temperature, atmospheric refraction, and wind direction. Since ionospheric-supported transmissions must pass at least twice through the troposphere, investigations have been made for possible meteorological effects at frequencies from the broadcast band to 10 Mc and comparisons made with known tropospheric reception at frequencies in the 40 to 50 Mc band. Correlation coefficients as high as 0.8 ± 0.1 are shown. Reception from WBBM, Chicago, 850 miles distant, based on 3 years data, show a direct correlation with surface refraction and with atmospheric temperature changes. Night fields rise from a minimum one day before a temperature rise equal to 10°F to a maximum on the day such temperature change occurs. Similarly, a drop in field occurs one day prior to an equal temperature fall. Studies of reception at Needham of WWV, 5 Mc (Beltsville, Md.) 373 miles distant, show similar correlations as those determined for the broadcast band. Furthermore, night fields of WWV, 5 Mc tend to a maximum one day preceding a prevailing SE wind directed broadside to the transmission path. Little correlation was found with NE winds directed along the path. Variations in field intensities, range from 15 to 30 per cent of mean fields dependent upon meteorological conditions at the receiving end."
"A study is made of the uncertainties existing in determinations of electron distribution based on virtual height data. The effect of an assumed distribution in the valley between two layers upon the necessary upper-layer form is investigated, and a method for evaluating the maximum error in height determination is given."
"Two methods of measuring the impedance of radiators are described. They are based on measurement of the power reflected by the radiators. These methods are particularly useful for finding the radiation resistance of thick half-wave dipoles."
"An investigation was made to obtain some fundamental information concerning the relation of the impedance of a vertical antenna over a finite ground plane as a function of the size and shape of the ground plane when dimensions of the ground plane are relatively small in terms of wavelength. It was found that the input impedance is a damped oscillating function of wavelength and ground-plane dimensions, the impedance of a circular ground plane varying from ±5 to ±20 per cent. Similar variations were observed on a square ground plane, which were approximately 50 per cent of those of the circular ground plane except when the dimensions of the ground plane were small. In general, it was found that the impedance is quite critical with respect to the size and shape of the ground plane, and relatively independent of the thickness of the antenna. Measurements were made at microwaves by a modified Chipman method capable of measuring small differences in antenna impedance. Recent emphasis on improved microwave measurement techniques led to the investigation of the merits of the Chipman method as compared to those of the more conventional slotted-line standingwave method. Although the two methods are shown to be closely related from a theoretical viewpoint, practical mechanical and electrical limitations are encountered which dictate preference of method entirely dependent on the application."
"Certain exact relationships between the radiation pattern and impedance characteristics of a radiating rectangular waveguide with vanishingly thin walls are developed. In particular, it is shown that the ratio of radiation intensities in certain preferred directions and the power gain in these directions are related in a simple manner to the reflection coefficient inside the waveguide. Although the information obtained is restricted in the sense that it applies to only a few discrete points on the radiation pattern, it is quite general as regards the manner in which the waveguide is broken or perforated to allow radiation. The results are shown to apply equally well if conducting sheets, having arbitrary shapes but lying on specified planes, are present in the vicinity of the radiating waveguide."
"A small-signal analysis of systems in which an electron beam interacts with a circuit composed of discrete filter elements is given here. The effects of a line beam interacting with a series of gaps, which are capacitive elements of a filter structure, are calculated, and it is shown that an admittance can be introduced which arises from the presence of the electrons. This admittance is in parallel with the gap capacitance, and thus will alter the propagation factor of the filter circuit. It is shown that traveling-wave solutions exist for the combination of electron beam and filter circuit, and that there is a solution which has a positive real part, indicating that gain will be exhibited."
"A computation has been made of the conditions for choice of anode and cathode diameters in test diodes that will give the minimum variation in the slope of the space-charge line with small variations in tube geometry."
"By use of the Laplace transform a network function may be obtained yielding a prescribed transient response. The procedure is based directly on the prescribed function of time, without consideration of amplitude or delay as a function of frequency. An example is given in which the Poisson-Stieltjes integral is employed for the physical realization of a network function which involves a transcendental term. In conclusion, certain questions are raised for further research in applied mathematics."
"The behavior of cathode followers handling the irregular video signals of radar or television is discussed. It is shown that the signal-handling ability of a cathode follower may be reduced if it has a capacitive load. A general expression for the magnitude of this reduction is given, and its effect on design procedures is discussed."
"A six-arm waveguide structure is described which is a true microwave equivalent of a Wheatstone bridge. A theoretical analysis of the equivalent circuit of the device has been made, using the symmetry properties of the structure. The resulting relation among the admittances of the various arms is exactly that of a Wheat-stone bridge with shunting susceptances across each pair of terminals. A device of this sort for use at 10 cm has been built and tested, and was found to behave as predicted. With this bridge it is possible to measure any impedance to about the same accuracy as with a standing-wave detector. A valuable feature of this instrument is that the standard impedances required are three variable reactances (movable shorting plungers) and a Z0termination. The data are obtained in the form of three lengths, the positions of the movable shorts. Since the device is the complete equivalent of a Wheatstone bridge, it can also be used as a four-terminal lattice section in filter design or in any other related application requiring the microwave equivalent of a lattice section. This allows all the greater flexibility which lattice sections have, as compared to tee or pi sections commonly used in microwave work."
"Expressions are developed for the voltage-current and voltage-power impedance of closed-ridge and open-ridge waveguide, with the discontinuity capacitance taken into account. Approximate expressions for impedance are derived which are valid under given typical conditions."
"Interpolation in the complex plane is employed to handle microwave network functions. This yields an approximating rational function over a specified bandwidth, and leads to a lumped-circuit approximation for the microwave structure, which is used as a basis for the synthesis of matching networks. In various problems involving dissipative devices, the poles of the rational approximating function may satisfy special conditions. In such cases the ideal lumped matching network has a simple realizable form, and may be transformed into a suitable microwave structure. Applications of this method and experimental results are given for the synthesis of a new type broad-band coaxial \"chimney\" attenuator."
"A rectangular-waveguide structure consisting of a series of constrictions and cavities is analyzed and shown to have the properties of a wide-band filter. The lower cutoff of the lowest-frequency pass band is due to the natural cutoff behavior of the waveguide itself. The upper cutoff of this band is due to the succession of discontinuities. Under the assumption of no dissipation in the filter sections, exact equations for the image parameters of the filter are derived. These equations take full account of the discontinuities and their interaction. As a by-product of this analysis, formulas are obtained for the exact equivalent circuits of three rectangular-waveguide structures: (a) a cavity formed by two changes inheight (Fig. 2(a));(b) an increase of height followed by a short-circuiting wall (Fig. 2 (b));(c) the hypothetical case of an increase of height followed by an open-circuiting wall (Fig. 2 (c)). It is shown how the analysis of structure (b) may be used to obtain an improved solution for ridge waveguide. The writer will cover the more practical problems of filter design and experimental verification in another paper."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The scintination counter is a relatively new instrument for the detection and measurement of nuclear and atomic radiations. Light produced in a fluorescent material by the incident particle or quantum Is picked up by a photomultiplier tube. The resultant photoelectric emission is amplified in the photomultiplier by a series of secondary-emission stages. This paper is a review of the present state of knowledge regarding the characterstics of the counter and the details of Its operation."
"A diode has been designed and used for testing various samples of cathode material in several plants and laboratories during recent years. Several criteria have been used for evaluating the emissive power of the various materials tested. To simulate the usual space-charge-limited emission test commonly used on receiving tubes, a cathode-temperature versus emission characteristic has been taken on each test lot. Temperature-limited emission has been examined under both low-field, low-temperature conditions and normal-temperature, high-field conditions. Results indicate that this method has several important advantages over the present approved method."
"The paper deals with the methods of testing radio-tube cathode materials in factor production, and especially with a comparison of several specific lots of materials of variable content. It is believed that this is the first time the electron-tube industry has made mass tests on a well-controlled engineering basis of cathode materials which vary in singe component elements."
"Recent application of capacitors as energy-storage devices for low-impedance loads, such as short-duration light sources and electric detonators, has emphasized the importance of examination of capacitor efficiency from this standpoint. Ballistic measurements, using a vacuum thermocouple and galvanometer, are shown to afford the desired evaluation."
"A definite indication that the need for broadcast facilities in the near future will far exceed the available channels is recognized. A feasible expansion appears to be in the ultra-high-frequency spectrum. To produce the maximum number of channels at ultra-high frequencies, a multiplex system of broadcasting has many advantages: A large number of broadcast programs are transmitted at an assigned frequency from a single location and using only one transmitter and antenna system. Effective use is thus made of an optimum transmitting site, a considerable advantage at very- and ultra-high frequencies where line-of-sight limitation of transmission exists. An experimental eight-channel high-fidelity multiplex broadcasting system has been developed and operated during the past year. Multiplex operation is achieved by time-sharing pulse-time modulation. The operating frequency is 930 Mc. The discussion includes a description and operating characteristics of the major components, including modulator, transmitter-antenna system, and receiver."
"The broad significance of pulse modulation is dealt with from its original concept through the various methods of attaining it. Its application to time-division multichannel systems is considered. More recent developments in pulse-count-modulation systems, and also potential applications to switching problems, are described."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This is the first part of a paper on the design, construction, and operation of electrical network analyzers capable of obtaining solutions of the wave equation. There is discussed herein the design and construction of two network analyzers for solving the wave equation in both two-dimensional, axially symmetric, cylindrical co-ordinates and rectangular co-ordinates. The various design parameters are discussed and suitable solutions presented."
"The impedance of some broadcast antenna arrays varies so much over the transmitted band as to impair the performance of the radio transmitter. The impairment consists in clipping of sidebands and distortion of the envelope at high modulation frequencies. This paper reports on an experimental determination of the nature and magnitude of this impairment and on its substantial reduction by suitable coupling methods."
"A bridge type of network, which causes equal power to be delivered to two load impedances whose product is a predetermined real constant, is discussed. The input impedance of the bridge is found to be practically independent of suitably paired load-impedance values over a considerable band of frequencies. Immediate application to the design of television broadcast antennas is indicated, examples are given, and power loss is discussed."
"The sectoral horn is analyzed from the engineering viewpoint in such a manner as to make it feasible to consider it as one component of an over-all microwave transmission system. Equivalent network functions are derived and graphed which are based on the consideration of the sectoral horn as a nonuniform transmission line. The resulting curves should be useful to those designing systems containing sectoral-horn components. The physical significance of the derived normalized functions is discussed, and the applicability of network philosophy is pointed out."
"A method attributed to Schelkunoff for the computation of radiation patterns is considered. For the case of transverse electric waves in a waveguide or horn of moderate flare angle, the problem of calculating the radiation pattern is reduced to that of evaluating two definite integrals. These integrals are evaluated for rectangular, circular, and semicircular horns for some common modes of vibration. A small amount of experimental data are presented to illustrate the agreement between theory and experiment."
"A piezoelectric transducer operating in the thicknessvibration mode is represented as a six-terminal network. The mesh equations, electromechanical impedance matrix, and equivalent circuit valid for any general conditions of loading and frequency are obtained. Thus properties of the transducer can be determined once the crystal, the impedance of the loads, and the energy sources are specified. Equations for the electrical driving-point impedance and admittance are derived for all conditions of loading and frequency consistent with the original assumptions."
"Two broad-band methods of measuring power at microwave frequencies have been investigated. In both methods, the normal load termination may remain connected to the microwave generator while the power is being measured. The first method makes use of the forces due to the electromagnetic fields in a transmission system to cause displacements of a diaphragm or membrane. This displacement is proportional to the square of the actuating fields and is made to operate an indicating system which gives output proportional to the microwave power. In the second method, thin films on a skin-depth scale are inserted in a microwave transmission system so as to cause only small discontinuities. A small fraction of the total power, usually 1/1800 to 1/200, is dissipated in the film. The indicator system measures the temperature rise of the film, ordinarily as a function of its resistance change, and output is again proportional to the microwave power. Continuous characteristics have been measured from 1,000 to 10,000 Mc, with additional isolated data at about 300 kc, 5 Mc, and 300 Mc. Both methods give a calibration flat to better than ±1 db between 1,000 and 10,000 Mc with gradually reduced sensitivity at lower frequencies for the tellurium-zinc unit"
"A new type of echo-ranging system is described in which the receiver is located at a distance from the transmitter. It is shown that, with a configuration of this type, the range of the target with respect to the receiving station is equal to the difference in path between the direct and reflected waves divided by the versine of the angle of elevation of the receiving antenna (p = δ/1-cos θ). By making the radial writing speed proportional to this function, a PPI presentation system can be realized which shows a profile of the propagation path viewed from the side. This system has particular application in detecting targets such as, for example, atmospheric irregularities, which have a low reflection coefficient at normal incident angles. The system, therefore, promises to be useful in the study of propagation problems."
"The significance of scattering cross section and back-scattering cross section in terms of antenna current distribution is considered. In particular, the influence of antenna load impedance on the magnitude and directional pattern of the scattered radiation is pointed out. A measuring scheme is described which utilizes the standing waves set up by energy reflected toward the transmitter from any receiving antenna or parasite. This method permits direct study of the back-scattering from loaded and unloaded antennas. Approximate scattering data for several types of antennas are included."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"The following are some of the many processes that contribute to the mechanism of the discharge in Geiger counters: formation of the primary ion pairs; ion multiplication within the gas by Townsend avalanche formation; spreading of the avalanches through photoelectric absorption of ultra-violet quanta in the gas; transfer of ionization energy from positive ions of the rare gases to the polyatomic molecules of the \"quenching\" admixture; release of secondary electrons at the cathode by positive ions and metastable atoms; de-excitation of metastable atoms of the rare gases by colisions with atoms of admixed foreign gases; and decomposition of poly-atomic molecules by electron impacts and photon absorption. Present theories provide a qualitative understanding of the fundamental roles played by all of these processes, but their combined effects are too complex to predict the wide variation in characteristics of tubes obtained with slightly altered practices of construction or choices of gases. This paper is a review of existing theories and methods of constructing tubes to obtain maximum counting efficiencies and other desirable characteristics, such as low threshold voltage, thermal insensitivity, long life, high resolution, and low background."
"This paper presents the results of microwave measurements at a wavelength of 3.2 cm for overwater paths of 12 and 32 miles near Galveston, Texas. Continuous curves of phase and signal strength for a range of transmitter and receiver heights between 10 and 55 feet mean sea level are shown. Comparison of the two radio paths is made, and deviations of the results from those commonly expected for overwater propagation are pointed out."
"Proof is given that any integral scaling base can be obtained using binary counters with appropriate feedback connections. As examples, two different sets of feedback connections are given for each integer between 2r-1and 2r."
"Recently developed multichannel carrier telephone systems, where calls are extended through automatic switching equipment, are described, together with performance data and application in commercial telephone service. Connections are established and dial pulses extended, utilizing the carriers associated with the various voice transmission channels."
"Knowing the length of a radio circuit and the latitudes of its terminals, nomograms are given which permit rapid derivation of the latitudes of the ionospheric control points. The use of world charts of maximum usable frequency is thus facilitated. September 29, 1948."
"This paper describes an experimental arrangement to determine the distributions of current and density of charge along cylindrical antennas. Using a wavelength of 1.90 meters, the distributions are determined for center-fed straight cylindrical antennas of a diameter of 29 mm, and lengths of 1.25 λ, 1.00 λ, 0.50 λ. For the first two cases, the measurements are repeated when a center self-tuned parasitic antenna, of the same length and diameter as the driven antenna, is situated at a distance of 0.30 λ and 0.15 λ. The distributions are determined also on the parasite. To test the accuracy of the measurements and to relate the relative values of the current with the relative values of the density of charge, the distributions are determined on a coaxial line, having the inner conductor of the same diameter as the antenna under experiment, and fed at the same frequency as the antenna. A few comparisons with theoretical results are made."
"This paper describes an experimental model of a course-line computer which accepts bearing information from a vhf omnirange receiver and distance information from distance-measuring equipment and converts it to simple tack-guidance directions for the pilot of an aircraft. Results of flight tests over eight parallel tracks are presented in map form. Theoretical relations between computer errors and errors in the bearing and distance information are also presented."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Lens antennas for microwave applications are described which produce a focusing effect by physically increasing the path lengths, compared to free space, of radio waves passing through the lens. This is accomplished by means of baffle plates which extend parallel to the magnetic vector, and which are either tilted or bent into serpentine shape so as to force the waves to travel the longer-inclined or serpentine path. The three-dimensional contour of the plate array is shaped to correspond to a convex lens. The advantages over previous metallic lenses are: broader band performance, greater simplicity, and less severe tolerances."
"A mercury delay line memory system for electronic computers, capable of operating at pulse repetition rates of several megacycles per second, has been developed. The high repetition rate results in a saving in space and a reduction in access time. Numerous improvements in techniques have made the high repetition rate possible. The use of the pulse envelope system of representing data has effectively doubled the possible pulse rate; the use of crystal gating circuits has made possible the control of signals at high pulse rates; and a multichannel memory using a single pool of mercury has simplified the mechanical construction, reduced the size, and made temperature control much easier. The memory system described makes possible a significant increase in the over-all speed of an electronic computer."
"Two ways of obtaining feedback in magnetic amplifiers are studied. One, termed external feedback, employs a bridge rectifier and separate feedback coils, while the other, termed self feedback, uses two rectifiers so disposed that separate feedback windings are unnecessary. Commutation of the rectifiers, apparently not considered heretotore, is shown to be of major importance. The calculated currents are confirmed satisfactorily, both in shape and magnitude, by experimental checks. The two feedback methods are compared, and it is found that self feedback is advantageous."
"This is the second part of a paper on the design, construction, testing, and operation of electrical networks capable of obtaining solutions of the wave equation in both two-dimensional, axially symmetric, cylindrical co-ordinates and rectangular co-ordinates. The circuit yields information on TEM, TMom(n) and TEom(n) modes of concentric lines, waveguides, and resonators. Field plots of electric- and magnetic-field configurations are directly available, and resonant frequencies of cavities, equivalent impedance, reactance characteristics, Q, and proragation characteristics can be determined."
"This paper describes a method based entirely upon transient considerations for the design of amplifiers with optimum transient response in the \"least squared\" sense. This method is applicable to video amplifiers, symmetrical band-pass amplifiers, and dissymmetrical band-pass amplifiers used with low-level modulation, and has provisions for taking into account noise acceptance and adjacent channel rejection. Examples are given of the results obtained with this method."
"The operation of an RCA-1B25 neon-argon-filled glow tube as a switching element in a transmission-line network at ultra-high frequencies has been investigated. A test method has been developed and theory formulated for evaluating the behavior of the tube in terms of an equivalent susceptance and conductance. Experimental measurements have been made which show the variation of the admittance characteristics as a function of gas pressure and of the direct current."
"Consideration is given to the various possible six-arm, six-element RC bridged networks of which the parallel-tee is the previously known example. It is found that six symmetrical RC structures exist having the infinite attenuation property of the parallel-tee and other properties differing from those of this structure. The duality of certain pairs of such structures is demonstrated."
"A simple high-power ionosphere sounding equipment for use at low frequencies is described. Its application to the measurement of virtual height at vertical incidence at a carrier frequency of 100 kc is reported. Results of nearly a year of intermittent night-time measurements showed a remarkably large variation in virtual height which ranged from about 84 km to as high as 106 km. Some evidence was found to indicate that frequently at night the reflecting region consists of clouds or patches of ionization, rather than the more nearly uniform ionization characteristic of the regular layers at high frequencies. A rotation of the polarization of the reflected signal with respect to that of the transmitted signal was observed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"An account is given of the origin and use of a routine for disseminating new technical information and ideas rapidly and flexibly through the large engineering and research organization of Bell Telephone Laboratories. The essential philosophy back of this routine is that technical memoranda have the status only of the individual engineer's personal authority, and hence may be circulated directly and widely across departmental lines for information and discussion. Departmental policy in relation to such memoranda is established by covering letters where such action is necessary. The objectives approached and benefits accruing from this procedure are briefly discussed."
"A summnary of the program for standardization of radioisotopes at the National Bureau of Standards is given in this paper, with some of the reasons for need of absolute measurements of radioisotopes in particular uses. This is accompanied by an outline of some of the methods used to ascertain characteristics of commercial instruments used in the measurement of radioactivity, with particular emphasis on those methods used at the National Bureau of Standads for this purpose."
"The Columbia LP (long-playing) microgroove recording system was developed to fill the need for music reproduction which would avoid interruptions not intended by the composer, and which would be of excellent quality at a reasonable cost. This allimportant factor of cost and the public's familiarity with the handling of phonograph records made it desirable to solve the task on the basis of records, rather than tape or wire. Standard 78-rpm records were originally designed to generate sound mechanically by direct transfer of energy from the groove of the record to the vibrating diaphragm. Because the entire acoustical energy had to be extracted from the grooves, these had to be quite rugged, and remained so up until now. The new Columbia recording system was an inevitable outcome of the use of electrical amplification between the groove and the loudspeaker. Today, practically no mechanical energy needs to be extracted from the groove, and thus, for the first time, it has been possible to develop much finer grooves, permitting longer playing time and distortion-free reproduction."
"Performance of capacitors on accelerated life test may vary over a wide range depending upon the capacitor paper used. Indeed, at present a life test appears to be the only practical means for evaluating capacitor paper, since, within the limits observed in commercial material, the chemical and physical tests usually made do not correlate with life. Lack of correlation is ascribed to obscure physical factors which have not yet been identified. Generally, several weeks are required to evaluate a paper by life tests of the usual severity. Unfortunately, the duration of these tests is too long for quality control of paper. The desire for a life test which requires no more than a day or two for evaluation led to the development of a rapid dc test. The philosophy of rapid life testing is based upon the experimental evidence that the process of deterioration under selected temperature and voltage conditions is principally of a chemical nature, and also upon the well-known fact that rates of chemical reaction increase exponentially with temperature. Life tests on two-layer capacitors conducted at 130°C provide an acceleration in deterioration many fold more than that obtained in the lower-temperature life tests, and correlate well with these tests."
"Pertinent high-frequency design data including the circuit gain, the gain phase angle, the input impedance in resistive and reactive components, and the maximum allowable input signal voltage may be determined quickly from simple design charts derived by approximations which are applicable over a wide range of frequency and circuit parameters. The only circuit quantities required for use of the charts are the magnitude and phase angle of the cathode load impedance, the internal tube capacitances, and the grid-to-plate transconductance of the tube at the operating point. A discussion of the effects of the grid-to-cathode capacitance on circuit operation at high frequencies is presented, including a critical analysis of the source impedance. It is shown that the source impedance may be greatly affected by the impedance of the grid driving source unless remedial measures are taken. Various circuit changes which reduce or eliminate the undesirable effects of the grid-to-cathode capacitance are offered with discussion and analyses."
"Measurements have been made of the effect, first studied by Bernamont that when a direct current is flowing through certain types of resistors, the noise voltage generated at their terminals is considerably in excess of the thermal value. The effect has been investigated for solid carbon-composition, \"metallized,\" palladium film, and \"cracked-carbon\" resistors, for resistance values from 1,000 to 30,000 Ω, currents from 1 to 10 milliamperes, and at frequencies between 20 and 500 kc. For some individual resistors, especially of the solid carbon-composition type, the noise voltage measured at any frequency in the range stated (with direct current flowing) showed much larger fluctuations than those characteristic of thermal noise, with a detecting system having a response up to a few cps. The fluctuations frequently reached peak amplitudes of several times the mean level of the noise. Several records of the fluctuations; taken on a recording meter, are shown. The fluctuations were particularly large when the current was first applied to any resistor, while its resistance changed to a stable value at a higher temperature, suggesting an analogy to the Barkhausen effect in the magnetization of ferromagnetics. No simple correlation of the occurrence of the fluctuations with other factors has been found."
"An analysis is made of the type of automatic-frequency-control circuit that uses a simple cavity resonator for the stable element and either frequency modulation of the controlled oscillator or modulation of the cavity resonance frequency to obtain effective discriminator curves which give a null output for a frequency equal to the average cavity resonance frequency. An analysis is made of the complete automatic-frequency-control loop gain, including the transmission through the cavity as a function of the various parameters and the frequency-modulation swing. A discussion is presented of the best method of decreasing the pulling of the oscillator frequency by the cavity, and the pulling of the cavity frequency by a load which has a variable susceptance."
"Aspects of the design of a nongaseous miniature trigger tube are given. A triode input section produces a primary electron beam which impinges on a dynode to produce secondary electrons. These are collected by two different output elements which may be used separately or as a unit. A surface having long life and stability is described. Suggested applications include its use as a relaxation oscillator, multivibrator, pulse inverter, triangular-wave generator, and dynatron."
"This paper describes in detail the electronic devices and principles that have been developed for the California Institute of Technology (CIT) electric analogue computer. This is a general-purpose, large-scale computer applicable to a wide range of linear and nonlinear ordinary algebraic or differential equations and linear and nonlinear partial differential equations. In addition to the basic principles of the computer, a detailed discussion is given of those elements considered to be of particular interest. These include the devices for generating the arbitrary functions of the independent variable (the excitation functions), the amplifiers for producing active linear elements such as negative impedances and for representing the nonsymmetrical terms of the matrix specifying the differential equations, the multipliers for producing arbitrary functions of the dependent variables (nonlinear elements). Performance data on these devices are presented, together with analogies and solutions of representative types of problems."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper presents expressions useful in evaluating the gain of a double-stream amplifier having thin concentric electron streams of different velocity and input and output gaps across which both streams pass."
"Oscillographic high-speed records of high-frequency telegraph signals (10 to 20 Mc) which show periodic variations in the field strength are investigated in this paper. A movement of the ionospheric reflector is considered as the cause of Doppler shifts, which are measured within the amplitudes of interfering radio waves between two consecutive minima. The long-distance propagation which usually occurs over multiple paths in the transmission, indicates shifts of 0.1 to 0.5 cps; 2.4 cps were measured at the interference of direct and indirect signal of VIS, Sydney, Australia, on 16,450 kc. Routes passing the auroral zones are characterized by the occurrence of \"cleft signals\" with shifts between 5 and 30 cps."
"The first part of this paper gives the theory cf waveguide filters with arbitrary identical links, and their matching to a line. The treatment differs from that previously presented in the literature, in that the electromagnetic state of the impedors and transducers is described by relations between the incident and reflected waves. This simplifies the analysis of all waveguide systems, because each transformation by a line section results only in a phase shift of these waves. Each filter stage is characterized by two angles which can be determined by simple measurements. The formulas which describe the insertion properties of the filters are given in terms of these angles. The second part gives the application of the theory to direct and quarter-wave coupled band-pass iris filters. The design data are given, including correction factors for irises of finite thickness. Measured insertion loss curves of direct couples filters constructed, show good agreement with the theoretical."
"A new stability criterion for multiple-loop feedback systems is developed and applied to the problem of stabilizing electronic simultaneous equation solvers."
"The primary relationship underlying this investigation is the exponential law relating plate current to plate voltage in a diode when operated in the so-called \"retarding-field\" region. By extending this classical mode of operation to multigrid tubes, the tube yielded further operating conditions in which plate current is accurately proportional to the product of a linear function of plate voltage and an exponential function of grid voltage over wide ranges. An analysis is given of various multiplying circuits using a single multigrid tube under this mode of operation. Two methods are described for compensating accurately the inherent plate rectification due to the exponential grid curvature. The circuits are most suited for electronic wattmeters having exceptionally good features and predictable performance over the frequency range from 20 cycles up to the neighborhood of 50 Mc."
"A new basis for normalizing the transfer admittance of two coupled tuned circuits permits the representation of this admittance by a single universal curve which is a parabolic locus on the complex plane. Within the limitations of the assumptions of high Q and small frequency deviations, data can be obtained from this curve for different Q ratios, as well as the usual values of coupling and relative tuning. The method also simplifies the calculation of the input admittance of coupled circuits. Extension of the method to triple tuned circuits is possible, but the applicability of a single universal curve is lost."
"A general system of equations is developed for the analysis of interlinked electric and magnetic networks. These equations are applied to the study of the steady-state behavior of six basic types of magnetic amplifier without feedback. The equations, which are non-linear, are solved to give the currents as functions of time for certain given applied voltages and given circuit and core parameters. An experimental check is included to confirm the correctness of the analysis. A comparison of the results for the six basic types shows that the use of two separate magnetic cores has important advantages over the single three-legged core so commonly used in present practice."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Air navigation requires adequate communication and desirable and comprehensive guidance means. A summary of present-day practices and a schedule of future plans in this field are presented in some detail by the Administrator of Civil Aeronautics of the United States Government. Engineers working, or planning to work in this field, will be well advised to study the contents of this address."
"The frequency dependence of the direction from which reflected television signals reach the receiver complicates the antenna design necessary to reduce reception of these reflected signals. A formula is derived for the strength of these reflections, and an analysis is made of some reflecting areas in order to find a reason for this frequency dependence. An antenna arrangement that appears particularly useful for reflection reduction is described."
"This paper describes the principles and applications of regenerative amplifiers, which may be used, for example, to mark the instant when two voltages become equal. A peak voltmeter circuit based upon the switching properties of a regenerative amplifier is introduced to minimize the error encountered in measuring low duty-cycle pulses. The use of a regenerative amplifier in forming a pulse-width descriminator circuit is also described."
"The purpose of this paper is to present a basic method of obtaining the exact required values for all circuit constants in a band-pass network using n finite-Q resonant circuits to obtain either of two types of exact amplitude responses; the socalled critical shape-coupled, Butterworth, or transitional type of response, and the so-called over-coupled or Chebishev type of response. The equation giving the gain obtained with the desired response shape is derived. Equations for the exact phase characteristics associated with the above exact amplitude characteristics are also given. Some comments are made concerning a somewhat similar method of design, which makes use of the so-called \"poles\" of the network. Design sheets are presented giving the necessary equations for single-, double-, triple-, and stagger-tuned networks to produce either of the above two amplitude-response shapes."
"The usual cathode bypass capacitors are eliminated, and replaced by a resistor connected from cathode to cathode of succeeding stages. It is shown that no gain need be sacrificed, and a great reduction in low-frequency phase shift is obtained. The addition of a small capacitance across a portion of the intercathode resistance gives an improvement in high frequency response and phase shift. Gain and stability equations are derived, and a circuit diagram of a practical amplifier is given."
"A figure of merit suitable for comparing the transient response of television video amplifiers is proposed. The parameters are adjusted so that when applied to a shunt-peaked interstage, the figure of merit reaches a maximum for an overshoot of approximately 2 per cent. Application of the suggested form to other types of interstages arranges the various networks in the order of their suitability in television amplifiers as considered from their transient responses."
"Without assuming the usual approximations, design equations are derived for several systems of reactance-tube modulation. Empirical methods are used to derive expressions for the total band swept, in which the effect of each parameter can be directly evaluated. The analysis was completed without the use of the usually accepted simplifying relationships between the impedances of the feedback network. The critical point where a given-type network changes from an apparent inductance to an apparent capacitance is noted."
"A radio direction finder is described which uses a crossed-loop collector system, electronic switch, single superheterodyne receiver, and synchronous rectifier to produce an instantaneous unidirectional visual indication of the direction of arrival of an electromagnetic wave. Design data and operating characteristics are considered, with details given of the new components."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A definition of terms is given, and the requirements and characteristics of testing apparatus are discussed. Test procedures for input measurements, output measurements, operating conditions, radio receiver adjustment, and performance tests are described. An appendix considers the design and use of the shielded test loop, the transmission-line method of testing loop receivers, and intermodulation distortion.<<ETX>>"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Copyright 1949 By The American Institute Of Electrical Engineers."
"A new brand of copper has been developed which, by virtue of increased resistance to annealing, permits higher current-carrying capacity and longer useful life under load with no significant loss in conductivityv. The annealing characteristic of copper is influenced by a number of factors: 1. The effect on annealing of noncuprous elements is the resultant of a complex interrelationship due to many variables and the net result appears to depend primarily on the ore and refining processes. 2. The effect of continuous heating is to start annealing immediately at a rate depending on the temperature and type of copper. 3. The effect of intermittent heating is directly cumulative. 4. The effect of externally-applied tension is to increase the rate of annealing. These data enable continuous and short-time current-carrying capacities of over-head lines to be calculated more accurately."
"This paper describes a graphical method for calculating the steady-state characteristics of d-c controllable reactors, using universal curves drawn on a per-unit basis. The phenomenon of d-c flux reduction, caused by the alternating current acting on the nonlinear flux path, is pointed out, and certain general conclusions are drawn. Comparison with experimental results indicates that the accuracy is reasonably good."
"The tests providing the basis of this paper were performed in an effort to determine the best type of carrier by-pass to use on our line between Beaumont, Tex. and Baton Rouge, La. An effort was made to determine how much line tuning equipment was required for various installations. The tests were also made to eliminate considerable field work in making adjustments. Upon the basis of our tests we have decided to use type A carrier by-pass circuits in phase ``A'' of our line for our communication circuit between Beaumont and Baton Rouge. This carrier will operate on two frequencies of 51 and 68 kilocycles over a 132-kv line through coupling capacitors of 0.0015 microfarad. A reference to comments under type B circuits or to curves Figures 11 and 13 will indicate that type B circuit should not be used for this application. We have, however, decided to use type C by-pass as shown in Figure 8 for the transmission of telemetering carrier signals over the ``C'' phase of the same 132-kv line. These carrier channels are in the 30-to 34-kilocycle band. The required tuning inductances will be located in the same cabinet as the equipment for the type A circuit."
"This paper will describe the relay protection of the Shipshaw Number 2 Generating Station of the Aluminum Company of Canada, Limited, and will draw attention to particular points of interest in design considerations and will outline some operating results and experience. In particular the excellent performance of one type of generator winding protection will be outlined. This protection has established a new record by detecting faults at a stage earlier than recorded hither-to-fore in the literature. In general this paper will illustrate modern protection for a large-unit type hydroelectric generating station."
"This paper presents the theory and describes the development of a simple, reliable, and compact optical shutter which utilizes a Kerr cell as a light valve. With the aid of such a shutter, routine photographic studies of electric discharges have been made using an effective exposure time of 0.000,000,04 second. The novel feature of an electro-optical or Kerr cell shutter is that there are no mechanical moving parts, the speed of operation depending only upon the rapidity with which a required voltage can be applied to the Kerr cell electrodes. These electrodes are immersed in a fluid which exhibits uniaxial birefringence when under the influence of an electric field. Electrical birefringence is described and explained at some length and the optical transmission of a Kerr cell shutter as a function of applied voltage is derived and plotted for reference. With the advent of the ``all-electric'' shutter, some of the latest techniques of the electronic art become applicable to photographic work. The control can be made sufficiently positive and accurate to permit initiation of operation at any preselected instant with a precision of 5×10-9 second. This excellence of control has made possible the detailed photographic study of light from very rapidly changing self-luminous objects. The complete components of an electro-optical camera are described in some detail. Prints are included which show photographic records of the electrical vaporization of a fine wire taken with an effective exposure time of 0.000,000,04 second."
"The paper describes a new multiplexing system employing time division. The system features pulse amplitude modulation with a filtering arrangement for minimizing the required transmission bandwidth. The distortion and crosstalk requirements for commercial applications are met over transmission paths including radio relay repeaters. A discussion of the channelizing, synchronizing, transmission equipment, and system performance data is included."
"To the designer of electric equipment, even these few curves indicate clearly the entire problem of commutation. The effect of variation in the adjustment of the commutating pole and of mutual inductance upon the rate of change of current is shown. The difficulty of getting the several coils in a slot to commutate equally is revealed. The need for brushes to absorb the residual voltages under the best of conditions is suggested. Commutation theory is proved to be correct, and a better understanding of commutation is promoted. Beyond this point, what use can be made of the oscillograph in extending the range of commutation? At this time we cannot answer this question. It is like asking whether the microscope is of any use as an instrument after having employed it on but one specimen. If we consider as specimens each type of armature coil, pitching, and arrangement, and if we consider the oscilloscope as a microscope for the examination of each, this device could be the tool to assist the designer to select the ones that are better and, what is more to tell why they are better. In this manner, it ultimately may point the way to extension of the commutation range of d-c apparatus."
"In this paper the current of d-c machines on solid short circuit is expressed in terms of constant impedances similar to Xd' and xd for synchronous machines. The outstanding advantage of this new result is that any number of d-c machines may be included in a network, with or without connection of batteries, rectifiers, or other machinery, and calculations may be made using a network analyzer, d-c calculating board or numerical calculation. The current in any machine, the total fault current, and so on, can be determined. Equations are given for d-c machines which are similar to the well-known equations for synchronous machines. Equations are given for the transient and steady-state resistances and for the decrement factors. The latter factors determine the rise and subsequent decline of current. Direct and simple expressions are given for the maximum rate of rise of current and for the maximum or peak value of current. Although design data is required for reliable calculations, useful preliminary estimates of current can be made using no data other than the resistance of the machine windings and a few dimensions which can be obtained from simple inspection of the machines. For this purpose, generalized values for design constants are given in the nomenclature."
"The successful operation of the three 6,000-hp turbine-electric locomotives that were placed in service by the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company in 1948 has demonstrated the reliability and adaptability of this type of coal-burning locomotive. Several articles giving a general description of these locomotives have been published. It is the purpose of this paper to deal more particularly with the electric equipment used, its special requirements, and resulting performance."
"A drive system consisting of two identical polyphase induction machines with their rotors interconnected and with additional secondary impedance networks is analyzed. General families of loci are obtained for the vectors representing the stator currents, and procedures are indicated for the determination of the torques."
"A comprehensive procedure for the analysis of fault currents in power rectifiers has been developed and some of the more usual cases have been analyzed for the 6-phase double-Y circuit. However, further analyses are still required to cover all the conditions which may be encountered in practice and provide a ready means for determining fault currents."
"There are many problems to solve in connection with the manufacture of diecast rotors that require the co-ordinated efforts of the design and manufacturing engineers. Forcing molten aluminum under high pressures into the rotor slots causes excessive stray load losses unless the laminations are insulated properly and strain relieved, and the slots insulated from the cast aluminum conductors. Heating processes may be necessary after machining the surface. It is also necessary to select the best and most economical die casting methods, equipment, and furnaces. The moulds properly gated, holding pressure, pressure on the die-casting metal, and temperature are all important to the production of homogeneous die cast rotors free from impurities. With proper control, die-cast rotors can be manufactured to relatively close limits of rotor resistance and with the stray load losses reduced to a satisfactory value resulting in satisfactory performance, and generally at a lower cost than copper cage rotors. This paper explains the cause of the stray load losses, processing to reduce them, and suitable test methods. There are curves showing the effect of excessive stray load losses upon performance, results of various processes, and illustrations of die-casting methods and diagrams of equipment for testing die-cast rotors."
"Inefficient electrostatic air cleaners may allow the escape of dust particles carrying electric charges of one sign. Such charged particles, suspended in the air of a room, create a space-charge potential. The resulting voltage gradient drives the charged particles toward the walls. Because of this space-charge effect, the full benefit of air cleaning may not be realized. In addition to the efficiency of the electrostatic air cleaner, other important factors are the concentration of particulate matter in the air, and room size and shape. Ordinarily, the space-charge problem can be solved by high-efficiency cleaning, under particularly severe conditions, such as especially dirty locations and large rooms (such as auditoriums), the use of a neutralizing device may be desirable."
"1. The 7-mile circuit of 120-kv high-pressure gas-filled cable installed in 1941 has fulfilled, during seven years of operation, the favorable expectations indicated in an AIEE paper presented in 1942.1 2. Several engineering features of high-pressure gas-filled cable, concerning which there has been no previous publication, have been investigated and are described. The results obtained are favorable. 3. It is believed that the characteristics of the high-viscosity saturant used are very significant with respect to the performance which this cable has given and which may be expected from it. Reasons for this are given, and added details of the oil characteristics are shown. 4. Further tests on an experimental field installation are reported. These show favorable results concerning cable operation at high temperature for both the preimpregnated and mass-impregnated types. 5. A new installation of twice the power-carrying capacity and twice the length of the 1941 installation is nearing completion. Half of the cable is made with preimpregnated tapes, and, except for conductor size and for shipment without lead sheath, is substantially the same as that of the 1941 installation. The construction of the other half of the cable involves mass impregnation of the paper with the high-viscosity oil, in a manner generally similar to the impregnation of solid-type cable. 6. The ability of the mass-impregnated cable to meet special loading and other operating conditions has been ascertained by the rigorous tests reported in this paper."
"This paper outlines a method for calculating requirements of the drive for a weaving loom from knowledge of system costants and without the necessity for extensive testing. When electrical testing is performed, the pulsating character of the load must be taken into account in selection of instruments and in interpretation of data. The value of inertia in the successful drive also is discussed."
"Magnetic oilless circuit breakers rated 2,300 to 15,000 volts require high contact closing speeds in order to prvent excessive arcing during closing. As these contact speeds cannot be obtained manually, it has never been possible to operate magnetic circuit breakers of this class by manual mechanisms of the type frequently used to operate oil circuit breakers. In every case where medium voltage magnetic circuit breakers were applied, it was necessary, therefore, to install a reliable source of closing power. This requirement constituted a serious application handicap in some locations where a reliable source of closing power (normally storage batteries) is difficult and expensive to install. This paper describes a new type of mechanism for operating magnetic oilless circuit breakers rated 2,300 to 15,000 volts, which has been developed especially for such applications. Energy is manually supplied to this mechanism where it is stored in heavy compression springs until it is released to close the circuit breaker. Unlike previous mechanisms, when this mechanism is released, the springs transfer their energy to a rotating mass which in turn drives the circuit breaker contacts. As this rotating mass accelerates until the circuit breaker contacts meet, its entire energy is available for closing and latching the circuit breaker against the magnetic retarding forces of high current short circuits if the circuit breaker should be closed accidentally on a faulted circuit."
"A metal-enclosed 3-phase 69-kv 3,500,000-kva 2,000-ampere compressed-air circuit breaker of the orifice type has been developed for outdoor service. The metal enclosure has six condenser bushings extending through the roof for connecting the circuit breaker terminals to the metalclad bus structure. Each pole of the circuit breaker consists of an air reservoir, blast valve, isolating switch, and an interrupter. The interrupter assembly includes a moving-contact assembly, two orifice-type stationary contacts, and two exhaust gas receiving chamber, all clamped together by four spring-loaded wood Micarta rods. The isolating switches of the three poles are gang-operated by a single pneumatic mechanism mounted on the air reservoir of the center pole. This circuit breaker has successfully passed all its commercial tests and has interrupted 37,500 amperes with 44 kv across a single pole."
"This paper attempts to set forth the knowledge gained in operating a growing trackless trolley system over a period of 17 years. It in no way is intended to prove that the trolley coach is a cure-all for transit ills. Unbiased transit experts recognize the need for all types of vehicles in the industry: ``A place for every vehicle-every vehicle in its place.'' We subscribe fully to this doctrine."
"This paper cites certain cases where trolley coaches replaced busses as indicative of a trend. Then the results of the replacements are recorded to explain the trend and the significance of sound vehicle selection. For the most part, the routes chosen for this paper traversed the same streets before and after conversion. This type of route is necessary for accurate comparison of all the factors involved. Where the line in question changed, no attempt was made to compare figures which would be affected by the change. For example, if half of a line served a different area after conversion, no attempt was made to compare total revenue, passengers carried, or vehicle miles before and after conversion. If detailed figures were not available, the conversion was merely cited, possibly with statements from the company, without making inferences or drawing any unfounded conclusions."
"This paper discusses an investionsion designed to determine, as functions of bias- and signal-current values and of recording media and recording and play-back heads, the response characteristics of a magnetic recording system. The theoretical background presented permits the prediction of frequency response curves in terms of relative values. These curves are obtained from data determined by measurements, calculations, and experiments on the component parts of a magnetic recording system. Subsequent to the theoretical material there is a description of a systematic method for planning experimental procedure, plotting the results, and presenting the test data for a magnetic recording system. Other data displayed here proves the superiority of thin laminations (0.002 inch thick) over thick laminations (0.005 inch thick) as core material for the heads of a magnetic recording system."
"This short paper, written as part of a symposium, outlines the status of a gas turbine development, briefly describes the two types of power plant resulting from this development to date, and outlines their applications."
"A square-law power-level recorder is described which is a new and improved version of a type of recorde which measures a-c voltage (or power level) on a linear decibel scale by means of a motor-balanced slide-wire attenuator.1 The detector, which is responsive to the mean square of the instantaneous voltage of its input, and the problems encountered in the insertion of this detector into the instrument, are described in detail. Other improvements in the circuit with the resulting improved performance are presented."
"The possibilities are investigated of lowering the cost of electric distribution in residential areas by using distribution transformers larger than required for thermal reasons to control voltage flicker; banking secondary mains to control voltage flicker; and using aluminum conductors instead of copper. The conclusion is reached that all three of These have a place in designing today's electric distribution systems."
"The successful operation of a big diesel-electric powered drilling rig has permitted the taking of accurate electrical data during normal deep-well drilling on each of the main motor drives and on the engine-generator sets. This paper presents: A description of the power plant and the main power equipment; an elementary power diagram showing the main d-c circuits; a discussion of the functions of the electrohydraulic governor which regulates engine speed from half speed to full speed; the operation of the rig as seen by the driller who is uninterested in the technical details of the governors and amplidynes; test data taken on the engine-generator sets showing how the governor regulates engine speed and limits engine loading; and test data taken on the drawworks motor, the mud pumps, and the rotary table motors and a discussion of the power requirements of each."
"Improved measuring equipment and refinements of technique contributed materially to the number and accuracy of lightning records taken, in a 4-year study, on a rural distribution system. Special shunts were developed to match the expected lightning currents to the voltage graphs. Modifications were made in the method of initiation of the oscillographs and in their operation so as to get the greatest possible accuracy and to extend their period of unattended reliable operation. Refinements were made to increase the accuracy and speed of magnetic link calibrations and to permit the calibrating equipment to be operated from a low-power 115-volt supply. The 60-cycle after effects of lightning disturbances on the system were recorded by an automatic magnetic oscillograph."
"1. A method of measuring the properties of a dielectric while its temperature is changing has been developed and applied to certain thermosetting materials under high-frequency heating. 2. The presence of absorbed moisture in small amounts has a pronounced influence on the dielectric properties of such materials. A method for dealing with samples containg moisture is described. 3. Two basic phenomena are active in dielectric heating at high frequencies: dielectric absorbtion (in the Maxwell sense); and some form of molecular polarization. The former is evident in high-stress short-time heating cycles. The latter is the more important for the thermosetting process, and is completely developed in longer lower-stress heating cyc es. 4. The method provides a simple means of determining the total energy input per cycle and per cubic centimeter of the material under study."
"This paper presents the results of tests to determine the speed-torque characteristics of a d-c series motor driving a crane hoist. Direct readings of speed and torque during dynamic braking lowering operation were taken for various values of resistance in the motor circuit branches. A comparison between test data and calculated performance, using a conventional method of calculation, indicates that calculation obtains performance curves which are sufficiently accurate to forecast the performance of a practical crane hoist controller."
"An analytical method is developed for predetermining the steady-state characteristics of magnetic amplifiers with feedback. The magnetization curve is expressed in a convenient functional form and analytical relations among the direct control current, alternating output current and applied alternating voltage are derived for two different feedback circuits. Magnetic amplifiers without feedback are included as limiting cases. Simultaneous conduction of the rectifiers which occurs in feedback circuits during portions of the cycle is taken into account and explained. Experimental checks confirm the soundness of the analysis throughout."
"This paper discusses carrier current applications on a 132-kv line composed of underground cable and overhead conductors. The discussion includes some of the test procedures used at the carrier frequencies in measuring the losses in the various components of the circuit and some of the difficulties encountered. The measured results are compared on a decibel loss and on a watt loss basis. Some data on ``ambient'' noise levels and on signal to noise ratios also are included."
"The B-1 alarm and control system provides means of supervising and controlling as many as ten remote stations in a maximum of four directions from the control station. The maximum distance between the most distant stations in a maintenance group is 1,650 miles which certainly exceeds the range in which remote stations can be serviced efficiently from a single maintenance center. The system presages increasing use of automatically-obtained information about isolated stations and stepped-up use of remote control signals for the telephone plant. As the communication circuits in use increase in complexity, and the trend toward centralized maintenance effort continues, reliable alarm system such as the B-1 alarm and control system will be necessary for efficient use of the new developments."
"The establishment of microwave relay systems, carrying large numbers of separate telegraph communication channels on a single radio circuit and having relay stations located every 30 or 40 miles, usually in remote country districts, has put a premium on dependability of power supplies, This paper describes the facilities that have been provided for regular and fallback power supplies for the Western Union radio-beam triangle which interconnects New York, Washington, and Pittsburgh. Interruption of the regular commercial a-c supply at any point causes the radio beam to be switched, without any effect on its operation, to a-c power supplied from battery-fed vibrators. Simultaneously, an engine generator unit is started and takes over the load automatically as soon as it has reached a steady operating condition. The paper includes a brief discussion of operating experience."
"This paper describes the design of a microwave radio relay repeater suitable for use in communication systems requiring low distortion repeaters. The modulation bandwidth is approximately 500 km for the illustrated design. The repeater employs negative feedback, and features extreme simplicity of electrical and mechanical design."
"This paper describes the non-linear elements and circuit techniques used with the California Institute of Technology electric analog computer. Their application to nonlinear mechanical vibratory systems and nonlinear servomotors is discussed in detail. These techniques have been found to be generally suitable for representing single valued nonlinear functions of a dependent variable. Nonlinear springs, spring loaded backlash, and nonlinear damping factors can be readily simulated as well as saturation effects and other single valued non-linearities in servomotors. Methods of analysis are illustrated for several typical problems including a nonlinear rotating mechanical system and an autopilot employing a solenoid-operated rate and position limited hydraulic motor. Numerous servos of this type have now been studied and correlation of computer solutions with actual servo test data have shown in every case that the mathematical equations presented here accurately describe this type of motor."
"It is shown that the distorted curve shapes of natural oscillations can be rigorously derived from the saturation characteristic of the oscillatory circuit by means of simple integrations. The natu-ral frequency is not constant as under linear conditions, but varies greatly with the amount of saturation. For forced oscillations, a concise dif-ferential equation is given covering all possible cases by only four parameters. The solution can be evaluated for any initial conditions by a straight-forward step-by-step construction. It shows graphically strange curve shapes of flux, current, and voltages, of no regularity with respect to periodic repetition or sym-metrical behavior during the transient state. In the steady state, a rigorous lineariza-tion of the differential equation allows considering the effect of saturation quan-titatively as a distortion of the impressed voltage. The final effect on magnitude and curve shape can be evaluated by repeated superposition of the residual dis-torting voltage. Intense higher har-monics are produced in this way. Consideration of the resistance voltage as actually present in the state of free oscillations shows that natural oscilla-tions can be sustained in true resonance by an impressed voltage of definite magni-tude and curve shape, requiring in series circuits a highly peaked voltage curve. Hence, the saturated circuit can respond to any constituent harmonic of this shape, leading to the forced development of sub-harmonics to the frequency of the supply voltage within certain ranges of its magni-tude. If the ohmic resistance is small a multitude of such subharmonics and all their higher harmonics may develop."
"This paper represents the first of a series of studies on the physical and mathematical analysis of the steady-state stability of conventional and long-distance transmission systems as influenced by the presence of voltage regulators and other control devices. As a first step attention is restricted to the transmission line as a component part of the over-all system and practical equivalent circuits are established for its representation, when the connected synchronous machines oscillate. For that purpose the basic equations of stationary networks are set up when viewed from uniformly rotating reference frames. An isolated inductor and capacitor, then a transformer, and finally a transmission line are used as examples. Their equations viewed from a simultaneously rotating and oscillating reference frame are given in reference 1."
"The expansion of an existing 4.16-kv primary network in Oklahoma City has been found to be more economical than conversion to a radial plan of primary distribution. Some recent improvements are described; some operating problems are discussed."
"The 10 years of experience with the primary network upon the Potomac Electric Power Company system serving the metropolitan area of Washington, D. C., have resulted in the following conclusions: 1. A primary network system can be installed at a lower cost than new large radial 4-kv stations where load distribution is uniform and reserve facilities against loss of equipment would be supplied for the radial system. 2. Construction to supply new loads is simpler and more flexible with the primary network system, since it tends to avoid overhead wire congestion and the need for underground construction. 3. Operating reliability is improved. 4. Voltage regulation is improved. Since the start of the war period, the primary network system has grown from 25,000 to 106,000 kva. It was able to pick up large loads with only small increments of new materials during this period, and expected investment economies have been realized."
"With the the growing popularity of solaria and increasing public acceptance of sources generating erythemal ultraviolet, there is a definite need in the field for a rugged, compact direct-reading meter that will measure the E-Vitons per square foot in the same way that a footcandle meter measures lumens/square foot. E-Vitons are the unit to express the health and erythema value of radiations above 2,800 Angstrom units. The design of such a meter is discussed."
"Loading of transformers must be guided by both economic and thermal limitations. For economic limitations, the costs of installation and operation must be evaluated for each type of transformer. Thermal limitations should be in accordance with the present ASA Loading Guide.1 Transformers subject to both normal and emergency operating conditions should have thermal limitations established for both conditions. Transformer loading must be within the thermal limitations of connected equipment. Voltage regulation requirements may limit the loading of distribution transformers."
"Since the end of the war, increased load demands, together with the location of housing developments in the vicinity of the power station, tend to make the electric power company more susceptible to noise complaints than ever before. Power companies which had not been concerned with the noise problem in the past now have become involved. The various factors of noise are covered and explained insofar as they apply to a transformer, one of the most common sources of noise. It is hoped that the review and discussion of the problems which exist may be of value to those interested in transformer noise, particularly to the transformer manufacturers and those responsible for transformer noise standards. The experience andelews of others, which have been reported elsewhere, are discussed, and a list of references is given for those who care to go into the problem in more detail."
"This paper describes the theory and characteristics of a drive which provides a wide range of adjustable speeds. The ratio of the maximum to minimum useful speeds attainable is approximately 20-to-1. The system provides high starting-torque, relatively high efficiencies and rapid deceleration through regenerative braking. The drive uses d-c series motors and generators and it can be assembled from standard equipment."
"Provides both a Subject and Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Copyright 1949 By The American Institute Of Electrical Engineers"
"Previous technical literature has described direct-coupled d-c amplifiers having a wide frequency pass band but with appreciable zero drift,1,2 and also has described contact-modulated d-c amplifiers having a relatively stable zero but with a narrow pass band.3 This paper describes an arrangement of a direct-coupled amplifier together with a contact-modulated amplifier. This arrangement retains the wide band of the former and the zero stability of the latter. Block diagrams are used for explanation, and schematic circuits are given for an experimental setup. Records from a fast recorder and from an oscillograph disclose the results achieved, such as rapid response to a step input and greatly reduced, nonpermanent output disturbances following large, unbalanced changes of heater voltage."
"In recent years, there has been a very great increase in the use of pipe-type systems for long, high-voltage impregnated-paper transmission feeders. Thus, a detailed knowledge of the factors influencing the a-c losses of large size conductors with relatively low skin-proximity effect characteristics is of value to all cable and operating engineers. This paper reports the results of a study of the effective a-c resistance of a compact type of segmental conductor in sizes from 1,000,000 to 2,000,000 circular mils, in air and in steel pipe, with equilateral triangular and cradle configurations. From analysis of the data, an approximate separation is made of losses occurring in the conductor, the outer shield structure and the steel pipe. These component losses are compared with accepted and derived formulas, and application of the data is thus broadened by use of mathematical methods. Based upon the suggested methods of computation, tables are given of losses of cables in steel pipe over a range of conductor sizes and voltage ratings."
"1. Carrier relaying according to the present practice, or the equivalent, is needed, particularly, but not exclusively, for ground faults, and will be increasingly needed with adaptations for automatic reclosing and multiterminal lines. 2. Joint usages, which may be adopted in various degrees, will alleviate spectrum crowding, and for many installations such usages will provide either reductions in installation and maintenance costs, or improved performance, or both. 3. Various types of carrier control and modulation are available. 4. The problems of carrier transmission and reception can be discussed qualitatively, but quantitative knowledge is meager. 5. In comparing carrier types or systems there are distinctive characteristics in each, both as to function and performance, which may be advantageous. 6. The choice between the available systems will depend largely on the functional characteristics desired, but it appears that there are undeveloped potentialities in each, and possibilities of making combinations. 7. The nonrelay usages vary in their requirements, making each application a distinct problem. 8. Present standard relaying equipment provides for limited joint usages of a single carrier signal with possible consequences which do not seem to be generally recognized, namely, the wide receiver acceptance band, with corresponding inefficient use of carrier energy and spectrum space, and incomplete carrier control by primary relays. 9. Carrier relaying needs to evolve to meet new problems. Suggestions along that line, including solutions to the primary relay control problem, will be offered in the second paper."
"This type of a-c network analyzer with its low volt-ampere base has proved to be of reliable design over a number of years of actual operating experience. The improved analyzer described in this paper incorporates many new features, including direct-reading master instruments, a fuller complement of generator instruments, pushbutton selection for meter readings, and complete factory assembly and testing. These features should further increase the usefulness of this tool in power-system design."
"1. An inclusive mathematical theory of the operation of the unshunted fluxmeter is developed. Previously published accounts of the theory of the unshunted fluxmeter are analyzed and found to be encompassed as special subcases of the theory developed in this paper. 2. From the general equation of operation a simple approximate equation is deduced which can be utilized for accurate calculation, provided the stated pertinent boundary conditions and restrictions are observed. 3. Experimental data are advanced which confirm the correctness of the general theory and make clear the necessity of observing the stated boundary conditions and restrictions. 4. Analysis and experimental confirmation analogous to that outlined in the three preceding paragraphs is advanced for the shunted fluxmeter. 5. Experiment reveals that a considerable amount of inductance can be inserted in series with a fluxmeter without substantially changing the working constant of the instrument. 6. Experiment indicated that a fluxmeter can be used in a searchcoil circuit of arbitrary resistance up to, in general, several times its internal resistance, provided that the corresponding numerical value of the working constant C' is selected from the calibration curve of C' versus circuit resistance. A combined numerical-experimental procedure for effecting this calibration curve is advanced. This procedure is illustrated by effecting the calibration curves of several fluxmeters. 7. A procedure for determining the mechanical and electrical parameters of a fluxmeter is advanced and illustrated by calculation of the parameters of several different fluxmeters. 8."
"This paper presents the results of an investigation conducted to determine the continuous and short-time current ratings of copper aircraft cable, using visual indication of smoke as the limiting factor. Tests were made on several wire sizes at various ambient temperatures, using six types of aircraft cable. Curves were obtained showing the highest current which can be carried continuously by each size of cable at different ambient temperatures without evolvement of smoke. Thermal curves, with smoking and delayed smoking values, were obtained for various current overload applications. Procedure is given for interpolating smoking and delayed smoking curves for wire sizes not experimentally obtained. Results of this investigation indicate that present continuous current ratings are too high for most of the cable used during this investigation."
"This paper proposes the development of broad-band multichannel power-line carrier systems. The particular problem of a band stopping filter, for use in power lines, to make such a system practicable, is discussed, and a possible filter structure for this application is proposed."
"Magnetic heating of transmission line clamps is reduced by the use of nonmagnetic parts. An economical method is the use of a non-ferrous body. Of the three methods used to measure clamp power loss, the multiturn coil circuit is recommended. The results of tests made with the multiturn coil show the marked difference between the power loss of the all-ferrous clamp and that of the nonferrous-body clamp. If clamp and conductor losses are known, the temperature rise of a conductor inside a clamp can be estimated."
"The paper describes a series of tests made in the period 1938 to 1942 to determine in the laboratory the effects of lightning strokes on the safe operation of aircraft. Due to wartime restrictions, publication was deferred. Investigated were: the burning of holes in the metal skin of planes and other metallic parts of planes; damage to airplane fuel tanks; breaking of safety glass in windshields; the effect of current flow on ball bearings; effect of impulse sparks on the vision of pilots; and tests on nonmetallic airplane parts. The tests showed that the probability of damage from lightning strokes to airplanes of sufficient magnitude to prevent further operation and to result in loss of the airplane is extremely small and can be discounted."
"This paper covers an electric ice removal system as applied to a recent experimental airplane. The system is described in detail from the power generators to the ice removal blankets and includes such items as extent of ice protection coverage, construction and installation of ice removal blankets, system electric power requirements, and system control. The paper does not treat the subject of ice protection in any of its theoretical aspects. The complete ice protection system installation is believed to be the first of its kind in this country."
"The purpose of this paper is to discuss characteristics and construction of lightweight aircraft transformers. It is intended primarily to be of interest to those members of industry who design and service electric systems of aircraft. Topics covered are construction, materials, standard ratings, window heating transformers, operating characteristics, and estimated life."
"This report presents material which the Joint Subcommittee recommends for inclusion in a test code fcr electric brushes. It is presented to secure general discussion preliminary to formulation of a trial test code. The material presented generally represents the viewpoint and agreement of the AIEE Joint Subcommittee. Items which the Subcommittee agrees are desirable for inclusion in the test code but upon which further work must be done are indicated."
"When temperature-time data from heat runs departs markedly from a simple exponential form, existing methods of predicting the ultimate rise from early data may be inaccurate. This paper presents a graphical method for doing this which, although widely applicable, is especially useful on electromagnets. Substantial savings in testing time result from its use."
"Railroads have installed many thousands of miles of a control system that retains all the time-tested safety features of railway signaling and centralizes the control of traffic on long sections of railroad. Special code type communication circuits and equipment have been perfected to furnish the remote control demanded by this system. The new communication facilities can be combined with other services on the same line wires and the range of control can be extended by the use of carrier current equipment. This centralized form of control has proved to be a dependable source of additionlal traffic capacity and increased earning ability."
"This paper describes the theoretical and practical aspects of a series of attenuation and delay equalizers developed for the L-1 coaxial system. Attention is focused on the adjustable attenuation equalizers and the delay equalizers. An indication is given of the precision required in manufacture in order to meet the close tolerances of television or long telephone circuits."
"The L-1 coaxial carrier system, with its dynamically-regulated amplifiers, has envelope gain in the vicinity of two cycles per second. With a large number of such amplifiers in tandem, the transient response to an input step function has a peak-to-peak amplitude, or oscillation, many times greater than the size of the initial step. It therefore is necessary to insure that the over-all envelope gain is not so great that small input disturbances normally occurring in system operation are magnified to a point where transmission is impaired. Calculated effects agree with experimental observations with small steps."
"The development of power capacitors has proceeded along the line of relatively small individual units for sound engineering reasons, and the performance of capacitor units as individuals has been very satisfactory. When capacitors are grouped in banks, this individuality or independence may be retained by fusing each unit. When group protection only is sulpplied, as by the use of bank fuses or circuit breakers the installation is no longer a collection of individuals but a consolidated group whose performance may be decidedly different. It is shown in this paper how the performance characteristic of the individual unit changes with the size of the group. Since the selection of protective methods and equipment may be dictated largely by economical considerations, the risk of operating groups of capacitors without individual fuses is evaluated."
"The rapid growth of the relatively new 152-174 megacycle mobile communications band and the resultant problems are discussed briefly. Equipment has been designed to double the number of usable channels in the same locality for most applications. A description of the equipment and its performance is presented."
"It was not the intent of this paper to try to cover the entire subject of relay testing in complete detail, but, rather, to present some new material on the subject. It is hoped that the circuits here presented, together with the analytical methods used therewith, will lead to further new and useful circuits and test methods."
"Cable joints and potheads are a vital link in the high-voltage cable circuit for power transmission. Some recent designs of joints and potheads are described with emphasis on the use of the electrolytic field-analyzer for electric stress analysis and of ultrasonic transmission for controlling manufacturing quality."
"This report briefly discusses the circuit, winding, structural, and electrical characteristics of rectifier transformers as they are required by the application, and as they in turn affect the over-all operation of the rectifier installation. Some data which permit approximate interpretation of rectifier transformer characteristics in terms of over-all rectifier performance are presented. The magnitude of fault currents, their frequency of occurrence, and their importance as factors in the design of rectifier transformers are emphasized. Examples of their destructive effect are cited."
"The committee finds that the requirement that neutralizers be capable of carrying a continuous circulating current not less than 30 per cent of its rating appears to be sound in view of the foregoing conclusions, and therefore recommends that no change be made."
"It is evident that either of the two conventional governing systems shown can satisfy the conditions laid down in the specification. Similar analysis will indicate how other systems of less conventional design also meet the specification. It has been the intention of the authors to indicate the steps in these analyses and show how modern systems can be adjusted to operate within the limits of the specification."
"In an interconnected power system, load changes of sufficient magnitude to affect system frequency are normally shared by all the generators on the system in proportion to their ratings and the characteristics of their governors. This inherent sharing of load changes is highly desirable in the majority of cases. It may, however, present a problem in a few instances if some of the generators are remote geographically and electrically from that part of the system which includes a large fluctuating load. In such cases it would sometimes be preferable if the load changes could be confined in whole or in part to the local generators, thereby relieving the remainder of the system from having to respond to distant load fluctuations. This situation may become acute in the case of systems interconnected through long tie lines, where abrupt load changes in either system result in large transfers of synichronizing power through the interconnecting ties. This paper describes a new automatic load control arrangement which has the ability to respond to local load changes in anticipation of their effect on system frequency. At the same time, however, it does not deprive the conventional speed governor of its ability to control the prime mover input to help maintain constant system frequency. In this latter respect lies its essential and unique difference from other somewhat similar arrangements described previously.1,2,3"
"The purpose of this paper is to present some of the reasons for testing steam turbine governors and to describe a method which makes it possible to determine the incremental regulation, dead band and stability of a governor connected to a large power system. The test equipment described has no mechanical inertia or lost motion and requires only connections to the potential and current metering circuits of the generator. The values obtained show the corresponding load change on the generator for any change in frequency. It is believed that these are the values which are most desired and are obtained directly under actual operating conditions of the unit without resort to assumptions as to the relationship between inlet valve movement and generator output. Some difficulties have been encountered and these are discussed with the hope that the work so far completed may be of interest to others and may stimulate thought towards a more simplified system for determining governor performance."
"The analytical study of 3-phase synchronous machines has been well covered by man authors,1,2,3,4 Not so much attention has been devoted to the 2-phase machine because much of the development of the methods of analysis occurred after the trend away from 2-phase systems was well established. Although the present use of 2-phase generators represents a small percentage of total generation, it is believed that there is some justification for analytical study of 2-phase machine performance. Such a study has value for the 2-phase systems now in use, and it has value in an analytical sense by showing how the relations developed for 3-phase generators may be adapted to generators with a different number of phases. The discussion in this paper is confined to L-connected, or quarter-phase machines with salient poles and without damper windings. It is limited to short-circuit or transient conditions. The inductances are defined and the relations expressing the variations of the several inductances of the windings are developed. The general fluxlinkage equations for all windings are determined in terms of stator and rotor currents. With this basis the operation of the machine under all possible short-circuit conditions is considered with the object of determining the transient and steady-state currents. The possible short-circuit conditions for the L-connected quarter-phase machine are the double line-to-neutral fault, the line-to-line fault, and the single line-to-neutral fault. The equations developed are compared with similar relations for 3-phase machines to show the similarities and the differences."
"Previous papers have described the basic operating principles of several dynamoelectric amplifiers and their behavior under d-c transient conditions. This paper compares the various dynamoelectric amplifiers to the electronic amplifier, and discusses the static and dynamic characteristics of both the single -and 2-stage dynamoelectric amplifiers from an a-c steady-state point of view. The dynamic characteristics are calculated from equivalent circuits and compared with test results in the form of frequency response and phase angle curves. Negative feed-back circuits and response curves also are presented and the effects of feedback pointed out. Methods of obtaining the equivalent circuit parameters from test are discussed briefly."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides both a Subject and Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Whether AIEE should confine its interests and activities to those of a strictly technical and educational nature is a problem receiving considerable thought by Institute members. President Fairman here outlines the problem."
"There is a tendency for the specialist such as the engineer to become so absorbed in his responsibilities toward his work that he is apt to neglect his higher responsibility, as a citizen, toward society as a whole. In this article the author warns us of the crisis that is facing civilization today, and charges the “men of trained mind” with the duty of arousing the unaware."
"A NEW technique has been developed for studying characteristics of high-current arcs. The method consists of moving one electrode in the form of a steel tape at a high speed relative to the other electrode in the form of a rod. A d-c arc is drawn between the two electrodes."
"IN THE calculation of the temperatures attained by underground cable systems installed in duct banks, it has been customary to base such calculations upon a set of experimentally determined thermal resistances commonly known as the “National Electric Light Association Duct Heating Constants,” by which the temperature rise above the ambient earth temperature of cables located in the duct bank may be calculated under stated conditions of duct occupancy."
"This article describes some of the techniques which may be used to improve the frequency response, reduce the distortion, and increase the signal-to-noise ratio of magnetic recording systems. Also discussed are some new methods of measurements by which these improvements may be evaluated. The author believes the application of the techniques to practical systems will not necessarily follow immediately; however, magnetic recording is already well established in many fields of application and its future looks bright."
"FOR APPLICATIONS where neither storage batteries nor control power transformers are practical, some type of mechanism has been needed to close oilless circuit breakers at the necessary speed without requiring an external source of electric control power. In addition to the correct closing speed, such a mechanism should supply sufficient energy to close and latch the circuit-breaker contacts under the maximum short-circuit conditions. The mechanism should be sufficiently compact for front mounting on a magne-blast oilless circuit breaker when applied in the vertical lift metal-clad switchgear enclosure. Tripping of the mechanism should be possible from either current transformers, a-c or d-c sources, or manual means. For safety reasons, both closing or tripping operations of the circuit breaker should be possible with the door of the metal-clad unit closed. In order to eliminate the necessity for auxiliary apparatus, such a mechanism should receive its energy from manual motion. To obtain sufficient closing speed, the manual energy supplied by the attendant must be stored and released instantaneously. Manual operation of the mechanism should require a minimum of time and effort from the station attendant."
"Although Thévenin's theorem is used extensively, particularly by communication engineers, little is known of the man himself. This article, translated from the journal of the Administration of Posts, Telegraphs, and Telephones with which Thévenin was associated, outlines some of the highlights of his career."
"IN AN expanding industrial plant, it frequently becomes necessary to increase the transformer capacity at a substation to care for heavier power demands at some particular location. An increase in the power capacity of the substation in turn increases the potential short-circuit kilovolt-amperage that might be applied to the substation bus. An increase in the capacity of the primary system furnishing power to the substation transformer also can increase the potential short-circuit kilovolt-amperage available on the secondary bus."
"A NEW compressed air circuit breaker has been developed recently for a pioneering installation of outdoor metal-enclosed switchgear for 69-kv service. This circuit breaker, with a current rating of 2,000 amperes and with an interrupting capacity of 3.5 million kva, is of the indoor type mounted in a weatherproof steel enclosure for outdoor service. It has an orifice type of interrupter."
"One of several large federal power projects on the Missouri River, the Garrison Dam when completed will produce an average annual gross energy of 1,600,000,000 kilowatt-hours. A number of interesting and unusual features to be incorporated in the project are discussed."
"Supplementing the ratings given in AIEE Standards, this guide outlines methods for determining short-circuit currents on d-c and a-c circuits. It also gives requirements for cascade and selective-trip arrangements of circuit breakers."
"THE ULTIMATE possibilities of gas turbines have been publicized widely. Many of the developments on which improved performance at an economic cost are dependent, are now in such a preliminary stage of research that it is impossible to predict the extent to which these ultimately will be incorporated in commercial gas turbines. This very uncertainty makes the future of the gas turbine intriguing to engineers."
"THERE are two types of synchronized drives of two or more mechanically independent shafts commonly known: one is the “power selsyn” or “synchro-tie;” and the other might be called the “simplified selsyn.” The first system uses, besides one or more prime movers, individual selsyn motors for synchronizing. The analysis and application of this type is very well covered in literature. With the simplified-selsyn system, each single shaft is driven by its individual motor, a wound-rotor induction motor, and these motors themselves are used for achieving a synchronized drive, without any additional selsyn motors. So far, the published analyses of this system are very poor and very little information, if any, can be obtained from the literature, which could be used as a guide for planning of such drives. Recognizing this situation, the Armour Research Foundation of the Illinois Institute of Technology made possible the performance of a series of tests which should furnish more basic information on the subject."
"A slender green tube 18 inches in length, introduced to illuminating engineers in 1935, is the progenitor of today's vast fluorescent lamp industry. Since that time, the basic methods of operating the tube have changed little. Engineers have improved and elaborated on fundamental system elements, such as ballasts, starters, and cathodes; as a result of their work, a large variety of lamps is available to the public."
"IT HAS long been known that when a moist soil is subjected to a temperature gradient, the moisture will have a tendency to move in the direction of heat flow. This phenomenon is of considerable interest in cable heating studies because the thermal conductivity of the earth in the heat field involved will decrease as moisture is lost. It is of like interest in the heat pump using a buried ground coil, where migration has also been observed."
"CONTROL chart methods1 developed extensively in connection with mechanical tolerances are useful in controlling the frequency-response characteristics of electro-acoustic receivers. The entire frequency response of a receiver can be kept within statistical control by controlling the critical regions alone. Two of these critical regions are described."
"THORIATED tungsten filaments have been in widespread use for low-voltage tubes for many years. By the addition of the carbonization process, they are used successfully at several thousand volts. The generally accepted view as expressed in textbooks and papers as recently as 1941 has been that 5,000 volts was the maximum voltage for a thoriated tungsten filament. Today, it is well known that during World War II the demands of radar and other electronic equipment raised the ceiling for thoriated carbonized tungsten filaments to 35,000 volts."
"DEPENDABLE electrical service in suburban and rural areas is of increasing importance because of the addition of many new electric appliances to the home and the continued expansion n of farm electrification. Power outages seriously inconvenience the residential consumer and may cause heavy loss of produce on the farm. Moreover, rising labor and automotive costs have increased utility operating expenses to a point where an excessive number of service trips no longer can be tolerated. It is, therefore, of vital importance that overcurrent protection for suburban and rural circuits be properly applied to yield the greatest reduction in the number and extent of outages."
"A summary of the material on rectification presented at a symposium held during the recent AIEE Summer General Meeting, this article discusses qualitatively the theories of rectification and noise generation in metal-semiconductor contacts."
"FOR THE purposes of this investigation, the number and duration of the short circuits in the arc and the degree of voltage and current fluctuation have been taken as an initial basis or criterion for stability measurements. Electronic circuits have been developed to detect and count all short circuits whose durations exceed a given specified time, such as a millisecond, and record the count on an electromechanical counter. The proportion of the total time that the arc is short-circuited is measured by a simple vacuum-tube circuit known as the short-circuit-duration indicator, and indicated on a suitably calibrated milli-ammeter. The average duration of the short circuits can be computed from the readings of these two instruments."
"INDUSTRIAL dielectric heating by high electric frequency, for curing or thermosetting, frequently involves heating cycles over the range 20 seconds to four or five minutes duration, for temperatures up to 250 degrees Fahrenheit. Rates of temperature rise up to 400 degrees Fahrenheit per minute or more are common."
"Use of underground high-voltage cable transmission at 220-kv may be possible in the near future. Many new ideas in this field are visionary and uneconomical, but eventually they will result in improved transmission. The author describes earlier types of cables, developments during the past 25 years, and improvements that may be expected in the near future."
"By measuring the alternating force on a stationary small charged probe whose position is varied it is discovered that an alternating electric field exists outside of a black box made of insulating walls. The field configuration is shown in Figure 1."
"These are authors' digests of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE Pacific General Meeting, San Francisco, Calif., August 23–26, 1949. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"In April, the AIEE Board of Directors at Dallas received the Smith Resolution, which says in effect that AIEE should continue its prime interest in the technical field and make no pretense of entering into nontechnical fields; in May a special committee of the Board sent around a memorandum on this subject to the Sections; in June the Swampscott meeting of Section delegates discussed it, and the article in the June Electrical Engineering engendered voluminous correspondence (EE, Jun '49, p 536). Expressions of opinions pro and con are about evenly divided. Out of the discussion has come a substantial reassertion of opinion that some sort of an over-all engineering association with AIEE as one of its technical divisions is the ideal to be hoped for; there are, however, differences of opinion as to how to handle Institute policy in an intermediate period. In order to clarify and make more definite the field of discussion on the subject, the special committee wishes to direct the thinking of the membership toward answering several questions: 1. What is meant by nontechnical activities? 2. Can AIEE be really effective in such activities? 3. What would be the cost of undertaking such activities?"
"The Pacific General Meeting, which was held in San Francisco, Calif., August 23–26, 1949, with headquarters in the Fairmont Hotel, offered an enlarged program well arranged, and in keeping with the industrial growth of the region. A total of 17 technical sessions, including two student sessions, was held during the four days of the meeting. In addition there was a general session, a luncheon meeting addressed by President Fairman, two executive meetings in the evening, and a student dinner meeting."
"The Pacific General Meeting, which was held in San Francisco, Calif., August 23–26, 1949, with headquarters in the Fairmont Hotel, offered an enlarged program well arranged, and in keeping with the industrial growth of the region. A total of 17 technical sessions, including two student sessions, was held during the four days of the meeting. In addition there was a general session, a luncheon meeting addressed by President Fairman, two executive meetings in the evening, and a student dinner meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The United States Atomic Energy Commission recently announced the establishment of a 3-man temporary Advisory Committee to recommend ways to establish continuing co-operation between the electric power industry and the AEC. It is expected that the committee will study the Commission's reactor program with a view to identifying areas or potential areas of mutual interest to the electric power industry and the Commission and make recommendations for bringing about a continuing program of co-operation in these areas."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. States in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"At several AIEE Section meetings, various questions on whether AIEE should expand its activities into nontechnological fields have been asked of President Fairman. Here he discusses those questions and criticisms of major interest or importance to AIEE members."
"IN MANY mobile radio systems now in service, the car is provided with a loud-speaker which is in operation at all times, the desired car being called by voice. Such an arrangement has the disadvantage that the occupants of all the telephone-equipped cars hear all conversations on their channel. However, all Bell System common carrier mobile telephone systems use selective signaling arrangements which enable the mobile service operator to ring a bell in the desired car by dialing the car's telephone number."
"New uses for aluminum in the electrical industry are developing almost daily, while, conversely, there is increasing need for electric energy in the aluminum industry to produce the metal. Thus, the close relationship that has grown up between the two industries over the years should become even closer in the future."
"ALMOST any electron tube is fundamentally a d-c amplifier having a wide frequency-pass band, but it inherently is not immune to changes in supply voltage, cathode temperature, and so forth.1,2 A sufficiently stable gain (incremental) generally can be obtained by the use of negative feedback.3"
"SECONDARY network systems serving a distributed load, without substantial concentrations of power, generally are supplied from individual transformer installations strategically located for maximum economy in distribution. Such single-transformer installations are commonly located in the roadway where they may be subjected to flooding and hence submersible equipment is used. These manhole units are connected to the network mains and usually have no customer service connection. On the other hand, where substantial concentrations of load occur, say in the order of 200 kva or more, transformer installations adjacent to the customer's service point are indicated. These vault installations provide for a customer's service connection and have a secondary tie to the street network. The number of banks required in a multiple-bank installation will be determined by the customer's maximum demand, the size of transformer used, the design of the secondary network system, and the permissible loading of the transformers under emergency conditions."
"POWER swings which result in lin large angles between voltages at the ends of a system and faults cause distance relays to measure impedances tedious to evaluate by mathematical computation. Also the slow clearing of a fault may cause a power swing, so that there will be a combination of swing and fault conditions to analyze. This article describes a method of determining quickly what impedances all phase and ground distance relays measure during all of these fault and swing conditions. The method requires only a ruler and a protractor or a draftsman's 30-degree-60-degree-90-degree triangle, and a knowledge of the positive- and zero-sequence impedances of the system."
"As part 2 of a series of articles summarizing the material presented at a Summer General Meeting symposium on semiconductors and the transistor, this article discusses photoeffects in semiconductors. The first article in the series covered rectification."
"ELECTROSTATIC precipitators operated at high cleaning efficiency have been very effective in keeping room walls and furnishings clean. However, the operation of precipitators at relatively low cleaning efficiency may result in serious trouble because of the escape of dust carrying electric charges of one sign into the rooms."
"ALTHOUGH the trackless trolley may not be a cure-all for transit ills, it has proved to be a most satisfactory vehicle for mass passenger transportation. The United Electric Railways Company of Providence, R. L, starting with a fleet of five in 1931, now operates 330 trolley coaches. These 17 years have been a source of invaluable experience in every phase of operation, including vehicle storage, overhead construction, vehicle maintenance, and economic performance."
"Of what value can a study of the history of his art be to the engineer? The wise man in any field can profit by examples from the past. For the scientist especially, the history books can teach much of the trials and errors of creative thinking, and indeed may point the way toward new paths to as yet unexplored realms of knowledge."
"FOR many years control-circuit designers have used a method of calculating d-c series motor speed-torque curves which was described by A. A. Merrill in the General Electric Review, October 1933. Speed and torque are calculated with the following formulas"
"ONE OF the problems which confronted S. F. B. Morse when he undertook to transmit intelligence by means of his electric telegraph was to devise a code suitable to the electric circuit and mechanical apparatus which he had constructed. His solution was the familiar Morse code. The translators for encoding and decoding the electric signals were the telegraph operators. Aleander Graham Bell's telephone avoided the need for translations through the use of conversion devices having simple mathematical relationships between the voice signals and their electrical equivalents; but the discrete, arbitrary relationships which characterize code methods have made their appearance in pulse code modulation recently devised for microwave transmission; the translators in this case are electronic circuits working at tremendous speeds. This article, however, deals not with codes and translators for the transmission of the message itself, but with their use in switching systems for the purpose of setting up telephone connections. Here they have been developed in numerous and varied forms, both for sending telephone numbers or similar information from one central office to another, and also within a central office for signaling from one component of a switching system to another. The forms of the codes and the electrical methods for transmitting them vary with the nature of the information, the form of the apparatus involved, and the character of the signaling channel."
"This article describes the method by which a new operating frequency for each of the 500 mobile-radio systems (25,000 transmitters) operated by licensees under the Power Radio Service will be selected and recommended to the Federal Communications Commission for assignment and use not later than July 1, 1950. The basic principles, conceived in March 1947 by the author, then Sponsor Representative of the Edison Electric Institute on the Radio Technical Planning Board and a member of Committee 4 of RTPB Panel 13, have been expanded and refined by a subcommittee of the National Committee for Utilities Radio of which the author was Chairman. The plan has been commended by the Commission and recommended to the consideration of other mobile services."
"A tentative Standard for trial use for a period of one year and various changes in Standards covering short-circuit requirements and limiting temperatures are proposed in this progress report of the AIEE Transformer Committee which originally was presented at the 1949 Summer General Meeting in Swampscott, Mass."
"THE VECTOR power factor is a quantity which has been officially defined in the Standards of the American Standards Association1 and is the basis for many power rates which include lower power factor penalties. The effect of the unbalance in a polyphase load on this quantity can be analyzed by the method of symmetrical components."
"THE RELAY “tree,” so-called because of its configuration, is a special case of a multiterminal network of relay contacts in which a single input terminal may be connected to one of a number of output terminals. The path from each output terminal to the input end of the network passes through contacts on all the relays upon which the network is constructed; and no paths can be connected together. The particular path closed through depends upon the combination of operated relays."
"The Engineers' Council for Professional Development program for the accrediting of engineering schools has resulted in a list of approved curricula which has proved of great value to secondary schools and to prospective students. The program, now 16 years old, covers to date the appraisal of some 700 curricula in 145 schools throughout the United States."
"THE Commonwealth Edison Company of Chicago and the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois have an interconnecting 132-kv power line over which a reliable carrier transmission channel is desirable."
"The binary quantizer is a new device for translating a time-varying voltage into a binary number. Although primarily designed for computing work, this apparatus may find use where quantization of a continuously varying function is desired, as in pulse code modulators, automatic metering devices, and recording machines employing typed or printed numbers."
"FOUR 880-ampere 69-kv pipe-type circuits recently were installed by the Philadelphia Electric Company. Three use oil and the other uses gas as the pressure medium."
"THE LOCATION of high-resistance transmission line joints on circuits long in service has been an almost routine procedure of many utilities for some time past. Considerable effort has been expended by The Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario in making such measurements. Many of the circuits, of aluminum cable steel-reinforced (ACSR) construction, are now over 25 years old. Bearing in mind the limited knowledge of techniques for joining aluminum conductors which existed at that time, it is not surprising that some conductor joints began failing after a useful life of 25 or 30 years. The seriousness of such failures regarding danger to life and interruption of service is apparent."
"THE BASIS of relay circuit action is that a set of n of the 2-position devices can assume 2n distinct combinational patterns. Thus a particular input condition can produce a particular relay pattern which, by utilizing the contact configurations on the relays, generates a corresponding output condition. A new input condition develops another output condition, and so on."
"ELECTROMECHANICAL relay circuits, which recognize the appearance and disappearance of electric pulses representing events to be counted and which establish unique conditions during and after each successive pulse, or after a particular number of pulses, are termed relay counting circuits. With such circuits, the number of preceding events can be determined by the operated combination in which the relays comprising the circuit stand. Electrical paths through the contacts of these relays may therefore represent digits in a numerical system."
"CARRIER relaying is useful principally, but not exclusively, for speedy clearing of ground faults. If ground faults, even though limited in current, are not cleared promptly, an extended fault arc frequently involves another phase conductor and even another line. Also, static wires or conductors may be damaged so as to break, particularly under ice loading. In the near future, relay schemes must be adapted to lines with taps or automatic reclosing or both."
"For many magnetic alloys, the permeability is strongly dependent on crystal orientation. Three per cent silicon-iron and 48 per cent nickel-iron alloys are described, wherein the cube edge of the crystals are aligned with the rolling direction of the sheet, thus permitting utilization of the superior permeability in the cube-edge direction of the crystals."
"REQUIREMENTS for relay circuits are usually stated on a cause and effect basis; that is, when certain events occur in a particular way, certain effects will be produced. If a clear logical statement of relations between causes and the desired effects can be made, a circuit of relays controlled by contact networks can be constructed which is analogous to the logical statement and consequently produces the desired results. A machine incorporating such circuits “knows” what to do for a definite set of circumstances; it is able to analyze a combination of preconceived conditions and produce a result which agrees with the basic pattern of logic laid out by the designer."
"Probability functions are essential aids in the evaluation of data. Using them, the significance of differences between standard and observed values can be determined. Furthermore, they provide a means of checking agreement between practice and theory. Thirdly, the function known as variance will tell the engineer what factors are contributing to deviations in items that do not conform very exactly to their design."
"SATURABLE reactors, in their simpler forms, have been used in controlling many types of equipment. As is known, control is effected by adjustment of the reactor impedance with d-c premagnetization. The a-c windings are so connected that no fundamental component of power-frequency voltage appears in the d-c control winding. For optimum utilization of the core structure, the control winding must supply premagnetization equal to the sum of the magnetomotive force of the a-c windings and the magnetomotive force necessary to saturate the core. Generally, the control winding consists of many turns of fine wire. As a result, a high voltage can be induced in the control winding if one a-c coil becomes inoperative and the effective inductance and time delay of the control circuit are substantial. However, these factors can be reduced if feedback is used to equilibrate the magnetomotive force of the a-c windings so that the control winding need supply only the magnetomotive force required to saturate the core. Consequently, saturable reactors with feedback, or magnetic amplifiers, have been applied in many cases where simple saturable reactors would have been unsuitable."
"INHERENT-OVERHEATING protection is, as the name implies, protection based upon the actual motor temperature; thus, the motor is protected on the basis of total temperature and not temperature rise, as is the case when an external current-limiting device is used. Fundamentally, in order to realize true inherent-overheating protection, the temperature of the thermal element should follow at all times the motor-winding temperature, thus limiting the winding to a definite temperature, regardless of conditions of line voltage, motor load, ambient temperature, or ventilation. A common location for the thermostat is in the motor end shield, where it is in as close heat-receiving relationship to the stator windings as practicable. An auxiliary heater is provided in the thermostat to compensate for the difference in temperature between the stator copper and the thermostat mounting and to provide fast tripping under locked-rotor conditions. The auxiliary heater maintains the disk at a temperature somewhat above its ambient temperature; thus, the tripping characteristics of the disk-type thermostat are affected in a predetermined way by the ambient temperature of the thermal element."
"A RADIOSONDE is the air-borne unit of an air-to-ground telemetering system. This equipment transmits audio frequencies in time sequence, which represent temperature and humidity, and a fixed reference signal, covering a range from 8 to about 200 cycles per second."
"In northern Illinois, four interconnected electrical utility systems have embarked on a postwar construction program to augment their collective generating capacity. When the project is completed they will be able to supply 3,000,000 kw of power. Equipment additions will cost $428,000,000, one-half of this estimated expense going for distribution facilities."
"Range control accurate to one mile in 200 and lateral guidance accurate to three yards in 20 miles were achieved with German-developed V-2 rockets by using electric, mechanical, and electrochemical devices. This article reviews declassified information on the single-, double-, and triple-integrating accelerometers which were mounted on stabilized platforms in the rockets for this purpose."
"As announced in the list of future AIEE meetings in Electrical Engineering, the 1950 AIEE Winter General Meeting will be held in New York, N. Y., during the week of January 30 through February 3, 1950. Meeting headquarters will be at the Hotel Statler with all activities centered at that hotel, except for the smoker. Most of the technical committees are planning to sponsor sessions and it is expected that the technical program will consist of at least 60 technical sessions and conferences. An interesting series of inspection trips is being planned to supplement the formal technical program. Plans are also under way for both a smoker and a dinner-dance. An extensive program of entertainment for the ladies attending the meeting is being arranged. For the accommodation particularly of the members coming from out of town, blocks of theater tickets for popular New York shows will be made available for sale in advance of the meeting date."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees. It will include brief news reports of committee activities and proposed plans for such projects as special technical conferences and sessions at general meetings. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N Y."
"The following constitutes the annual report on Institute Section and Branch activities for the fiscal year which ended April 30, 1949. Similar information for three preceding fiscal years appeared in Electrical Engineering, November 1948, pages 1117–20 August 1947, pages 837–40; July 1946, pages 352–4."
"The board of examiners at its meeting of September 15, 1949, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"The formal opening of the First Pan American Engineering Congress took place on the evening of July 15, 1949, at the Municipal Theatre in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Several chiefs of delegations, including the Chairman of the United States delegation, S. S. Steinberg, Dean of Engineering at the University of Maryland, delivered addresses. The scheduled sessions of the Congress and its Commissions commenced the next day, lasting until July 20."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish at many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new book∗ are among Chose recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlet may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering” AE enquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Here President Fairman applies the term “grass roots” to the students in the engineering schools who are the future members of the profession. Courses of individual and group action which would benefit the students, the schools, the employers, and the profession are proposed."
"AN AUTOMATIC grounding switch in combination with an automatic air-break switch can be used in place of a circuit breaker in the 110-kv supply to a transformer. Since internal faults in transformers do not occur frequently, these high-voltage circuit breakers can be put to better use at terminals of transmission lines where faults are caused by lightning. The substitute for a circuit breaker on the high-voltage side of a transformer must provide for interrupting load, magnetizing, and fault currents. The low-voltage circuit breakers are necessary in all except very small single-bank stations for all three interrupting duties. An air-break switch on the high-voltage side of a transformer should be able to interrupt the magnetizing current or to break parallel in a station having two or three banks of transformers. The remaining duty is to interrupt current flowing from the 110-kv network into a faulted transformer. This can be done indirectly by putting a fault on the 110-kv bus which will operate circuit breakers at distant ends of the 110-kv transmission line. This is a drastic method of avoiding interruption of 110-kv fault current at the station flowing to transformer with an internal fault; but as this kind of fault occurs very seldom, such a general interruption can be endured occasionally. When two or more transmission lines are terminated at such stations, high-voltage circuit breakers are required at terminals of lines only, because the automatic air-break switch can be used to disconnect a faulted transformer after all sources of fault current have been removed."
"In order to transmit power efficiently from its source in the northern part of Sweden to the consumers in the southern part of the country, Swedish engineers have started construction on a 380-kv transmission system."
"DIESEL locomotives pulling long freight trains of several thousand tons on mainline railroads are a familiar sight, yet most people are not generally aware of the time and effort that must be expended in collecting and distributing this freight moving over the principal lines of the railways. The little known “work horse” that performs the seemingly thankless task of collecting and distributing this freight to all industries is the switching locomotive, working all hours of the day and night. Loaded cars are brought to a classifying point where further switching and transfer work is required to make up a through freight train destined for movement over the main line."
"IN PLANNING the development of the transmission facilities needed for the output of the initial installation of two 75,000-kw units at the new Sunbury plant of the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company, provision of “spare” lines has been avoided by placing full dependence on the ability of fast protective and reclosing relaying to reduce line outages to short durations for all except the relatively rare faults that are inherently persistent. Because of this dependence upon modern relaying, the number of lines has been limited to those already existent in close proximity, which are simply being extended into Sunbury, plus three new ones that are required for load-carrying capacity regardless of relaying. (See Figure 1.)"
"THE B-1 alarm and control system provides means of supervising and controlling equipment in locations which are remote from a designated control point. The controlled stations may be spaced at intervals on a line extending in one direction or divided between lines extending in two, three, or four directions. Ten stations may be controlled from one control point."
"Since 1941, the population of the area served by The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company and local connecting utilities has grown by 50 per cent. To meet the concomitant increase in demand for telephone facilities, these companies are installing new transmission and terminal equipment. The sites and types of carrier used at each installation are described."
"A THERMAL CONVERTER, used as a primary element in the telemetering or totalizing of large power loads, is a measuring instrument which generates a direct voltage accurately proportional to the power of the a-c circuit measured. The output voltages of two or more converters may be connected in series and the algebraic sum of the loads so totalized may be recorded or indicated, remotely if desired, by a potentiometer. In principle, the thermal converter comprises an a-c circuit such that the difference in power generated in two heaters is proportional to the measured load; and the temperature difference thus produced is measured by thermocouples. In addition to power the thermal converter may be adapted to measure reactive power, power factor, current, or voltage."
"THE ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM of the the Consolidated Gas Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore extends over 2,269 square miles in the State of Maryland with a population of 1,400,000. Approximately 70 per cent of this population is in the city of Baltimore, which covers an area of about 73 square miles, and the bulk of electric load is concentrated within the territory of the city and immediate suburbs. Service for residential and commercial use is provided there by a 4-kv radial distribution system, with feeders generally underground. Only the most heavily loaded business section is served by a secondary a-c network and a d-c network which is being gradually changed over to alternating current. In this area, at the end of the war, the ratio between peak load and installed transformer capacity had reached the limits which should not be exceeded to assure firm power supply at all locations. Temporary provisions, like the use of portable fans during emergencies, were put into effect, but the need for new facilities became urgent and a decision had to be made as to the best method for expansion."
"A teacher can make his lectures immeasurably more valuable to his students if he will but take the time necessary to prepare carefully a number of problems illustrating the use of the material presented in the lectures. In addition, at the same time he should insist that the students, in turn, take the time necessary to work these problems out."
"IN MANY POWER SYSTEM voltage measurements the measurement problem consists of detecting and indicating accurately a variation of plus or minus one volt or less from a given reference voltage. The use of the conventional zero-left, a-c, moving-iron, or electrodynamic voltmeter does not provide enough of a deflection to read with any degree of certainty, since, for example, a one volt variation from 120 volts on a 250-degree-scale concentric-type switchboard voltmeter represents approximately 3/64 inch of arc. There is then a need for an expanded scale voltmeter that produces a scale length per volt within the range of normal voltage variation of at least four times that of the conventional voltmeter."
"TYPE “L” BROAD-BAND carrier telephone systems over coaxial cables require repeaters spaced every eight miles or less along the cables. The large number of repeaters involved makes it desirable to transmit 60-cycle power from main and terminal stations to auxiliary repeaters over the same coaxials as used for carrier transmission. The power circuit shown in Figure 1 for a typical span of about 100 miles between adjacent power sending stations involves primaries of powerpacks at each repeater arranged in series with the inner conductors of the coaxials to form a series loop from each sending station. Power separation filters at each repeater separate the carrier frequencies for amplification and return to the coaxials without affecting or being affected by the power circuit. The power packs are individually adjusted to give proper filament and plate power based on a constant current system with a line current of approximately 500 milliamperes. This current is regulated at the sending end by means of an automatically-controlled motor-driven variable transformer which raises and lowers the voltage as required to compensate for changes in line impedance with temperature or for variations in the power source voltage. Automatic regulation provides protection against overload such as might occur if a coaxial should open or become short-circuited. Where the overload is insufficient to blow the supply fusing, the controls reduce the line current to normal by dropping the voltage to the necessary value. Where the short circuit is near enough to the main station to blow a supply fuse, the control circuit functions to turn the variable transformer to minimum voltage so that replacement of the blown fuse cannot cause a line current surge."
"THE TIME OF RESPONSE of demand meters is of critical importance wherever a demand charge is made for electricity. In demand meters of the mechanical block-interval type the demand interval is usually governed by a gear train and resetting mechanism connected with some synchronous device, such as a clock motor, and response time presents no special problems in design. The response time of thermal meters depends upon less easily evaluated constants and coefficients. This article examines these factors and presents equations from which the time of response may be calculated."
"This article is a summary of the material on the nature of the conductivity in semiconductors presented at the AIEE Summer General Meeting in a Symposium on Electrical Properties of Semiconductors and the Transistor. Previous articles in the series covered rectification and photoeffects in semiconductors."
"THE SEPARATION of a complex curve into its constituent sine and cosine curves of proper amplitude and phase by means of a Fourier series analysis is well known, and this method is frequently used in many branches of engineering and mathematics. All who have ever made such an analysis know that the computation for the Fourier coefficients can be very tiresome and expensive from the point of view of time and effort."
"A NEW instrument mechanism has been developed which is remarkable for its small size and weight compared to conventional instruments. It is suitable for use in d-c electric indicating instruments in either portable or panel devices. The instrument is capable of moderately high sensitivity and is most readily adaptable to applications where expanded scale distribution is desirable."
"IN CHICAGO a new type of sub transmission system was adopted recently to provide for the expansion in load which is being experienced. This system utilizes a subtransmission voltage of 66 kv, which was formerly used only at transmission levels. The higher voltage provides a more desirable and economical arrangement for the present conditions encountered on the Chicago system."
"GOOD service continuity with the least possible outlay is a major problem on every rural distribution system. Sectionalizing the primary line is accepted practice today to improve continuity. The problem is to formulate numerically the benefits obtainable with different types of equipment and to find better protective methods."
"There are two differences between the power supplies found in an ordinary radio and those found in a home television receiver: the more complex low-voltage supply needed in the latter, as well as the presence of a high-voltage supply for the cathode-ray tube. This article discusses the several methods of providing such power for a television set."
"Three types of calibration equipments have been developed which will find ready application as complete self-contained multiranged laboratory standards with power supplies. The standardized output currents and voltages obtained from these equipments can be applied to laboratory instruments and to the production testing of small numbers of diverse measuring instruments."
"THE 4-KV PRIMARY NETWORK type of distribution system has been used successfully in the Pittsburgh area since 1931, when the Verona-Oakmont network was placed in service. A new 4-kv primary network installation for the Squirrel Hill area has been installed utilizing the modern equipment that is now offered by manufacturers."
"IN THE present rapid expansion and future development of electrical utility systems, “economic workability,” or economic justification, is the primary criterion of good or bad system design. “Operating workability,” that is, operating performance, is no longer a problem."
"As a consideration of quality control as a management method, rather than a discussion of the technical approaches to the subject, this article points out that improved product quality, reduced manufacturing losses and costs, and better product designs are among the benefits which management can gain from a modern, co-ordinated quality control program."
"MOST HIGH-VOLTAGE LINES, in keeping with the trend of thought at the time they were built, have employed steel supporting structures until quite recently. About 15 years ago after an analysis of various high-voltage lines, it was concluded that a properly designed wood line would give superior service from an interruption standpoint."
"THIS article is concerned with the problem of representing linear vibrating systems in terms of electric circuits. In standard works, it is shown that a system of linear differential equations with constant coefficients can be reduced to a triangular system by use of a system of multipliers with a constant determinant. The use of a transformation of this type can result in considerable simplification. It is possible to alter the essential type of coupling appearing between loops of the electrical analog circuits by this means. This transformation is particularly valuable since it does not alter the dependent or independent variables, and introduces only rational functions of the original parameters."
"THE BOSTON EDISON COMPANY has three primary network installations in operation on its system supplying a total load of 43,000 kva. The first primary network installation went into service in 1932 to supply a residential load of approximately 4,500 kva in an area of about 5.3 square miles. This load was supplied with four 1,500-kva transformers rated 13,800-volt primary and 4,330-volt secondary installed in underground vaults 30 feet long by 9 1/2 feet wide by 10 feet high. The transformers, as originally installed, were connected Y-Y with a tertiary-delta winding but they were later rewound for delta-Y operation in order to put the network in phase with the existing radial system which is supplied from delta-Y connected transformers."
"The outstanding advantage of magnetic ferrites, which are nonmetals, is the low electrical conduction and, therefore, low eddy current losses at the higher frequencies, so that these materials find great usefulness in communications. In this article the author describes the development, the characterictics, and applications of these materials."
"FIELD tests were made on a 7,200/12,470Y-volt multigrounded rural distribution system to check fault current calculations and to investigate transient recovery voltages experienced as a consequence of clearing fault currents. Tests were also made using a miniature circuit representation of a rural distribution system in order to investigate the effect of variations in circuit conditions incident to the fault. The use of the miniature system or transient analyzer made possible a determination of the order of magnitude of crest voltages and rates of rise that may be expected under most severe conditions. The work is expected to be of considerable value in the preparation of standards for the testing of such devices as expulsion lightning arresters and distribution fuse cutouts. In so far as the authors are aware, this is the first published information on transient recovery voltage tests on rural distribution systems and the correlation therewith of transient analyzer results."
"THE POTOMAC Electric Power Company started the use of 4-kv primary networks about 1939. Since that time the procedure has been to prevent load growth on existing substations supplying 4-kv radial feeders by establishing primary networks in the outlying portions of the areas served by the existing radial stations. It is in these areas that the load growth is most rapid. Studies have shown that, with distributed load, this method is more economical than expanding the use of 4-kv radial feeders if the radial system is made firm up to the point where distribution from the 4-kv feeder begins."
"A new type of electrically conductive flooring for use in hazardous locations in hospitals is designed to prevent the accumulation of electrostatic charges on personnel and equipment which would create an explosion hazard in areas where combustible anesthetics are stored or used. This discussion of the characteristics desired in such flooring, and of the results of tests which have been made, should prove interesting not only for hospital use, but for many other purposes, as an extrapolation of the basic principle."
"These are authors' digests of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE Fall General Meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 17–21, 1949. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"Inasmuch as last year's meeting was so successful, the AIEE Winter General Meeting will again be held in the Hotel Statler in New York, N. Y., during the week of January 30 through February 3, 1950. This change from the Engineering Societies Building to the Hotel Statler was made to provide more adequate meeting space and room facilities for scheduling committee meetings. The choice of the Hotel Statler will also prove advantageous to those out-of-town members who are in a position to use the Pennsylvania Railroad, as the Pennsylvania Station is adjacent to the headquarters hotel and connected to it by means of an underground passageway."
"Presenting a total of 32 technical sessions and conferences, including one general session, the AIEE Fall General Meeting was held in Cincinnati, Ohio, October 17–21, 1949. Headquarters were in the Netherland Plaza Hotel. Several of the meeting's technical sessions marked innovations in the presentation of technical matter before the Institute, such as the sessions on mining and metal industry, aluminum, and cable accessories. Other sessions on rotating machinery, industrial control, and the conferences on machine tools were particularly fitting for presentation in Cincinnati, which is known as the center of the machine-tool industry. Inspection trips to nearby industries, a stag smoker, dinner-dance, and a special program for the ladies completed a profitable and enjoyable week. The total registered attendance of members, guests, and students was 1,045."
"The board of examiners at its meeting of October 27, 1949, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"For some time Engineers Joint Council has been studying suggestions which have been made from various sources as to means by which the engineering organizations of the United States could co-operate in increasing the unity of the engineering profession. These studies led to an invitation sent this past summer by Engineers Joint Council to 16 of the leading engineering societies of the country, suggesting that each society designate a representative to take part in an exploratory meeting to discuss further this very important subject."
"According to the Annual Report of the Director of the Library, the Engineering Societies Library ended its 36th fiscal year last September 30 with a credit balance for the first time in several years. Also noted in the report was the development of a new photoprint service, installation of shelving, and discarding of some library material."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication-should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted is duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among (hose recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of Interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” AE inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"A railroad radiotelephone service has been set up for use by railroad personnel to assist in railroad operations. Operating under rules of, and given a sizable number of frequencies by, the Federal Communications Commission, the railroads are using the new service in yards, terminals, harbors, and on main lines, as well as for emergencies. Equipment and housings have been designed to meet this new radio use."
"The feeling that the utility field does not offer opportunities for the electrical engineer is a mistaken one. Not only are the opportunities numerous but a survey of the industry reveals that the top positions in the industry are held by electrical engineers. In addition, the steady growth of the utilities industry offers more and more openings in this field."
"A 138-kv underground oil-filled cable power circuit, recently installed between the Sherman Greek generating station of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., and the Dunwoodie substation of the Yonkers Electric Light and Power Company 8.1 miles away, needed an underground carrier current circuit to tie-in with the carrier current circuit superimposed on a 138-kv overhead line from Dunwoodie to Millwood, a distance of 21 miles. The two power circuits are connected at Dunwoodie and the 60-kc carrier circuit controls high-speed directional relays which protect the power circuits. The cable for this circuit is installed in the same underground system with the power cable and terminates at the same stations. The carrier transmitting and receiving equipment required a cable with approximately 70-ohm characteristic impedance and with an attenuation within specified maximum limits at frequencies from 50 kc to 150 kc. A coaxial cable consisting of a number 13 stranded copper conductor, 185 mils of polyethylene insulation, a woven copper braid shield, and a 78 mils thickness neoprene outer jacket was selected."
"JUST at the critical time when submarine wolf packs and magnetic mines were sinking Allied ships faster than they could be constructed, merchant ship strandings and collisions were reported to have been caused by the effect of degaussing coil fields on the magnetic compass. The installation of compass compensating coils permitted the immediate and satisfactory resumption of navigation by magnetic compass."
"A solution to the problem of objectionable voltage fluctuation in large industrial welders can be brought about by electronically interlocking each single phase welder with a dummy load to fill in the period of no load between welds; the load to be of suitable magnitude to keep the voltage variation within allowable limits. In addition, this method also results in considerable reduction in kilowatt-hour consumption of ballast load."
"EARLY in World War II the German Navy and Air1 Force started to lay a new type of sea mine, reputed later to be the first of the “secret weapons.” This mine was detonated at a distance beneath a ship by the ship's influence rather than by actual contact as was necessary for previous types of mines. Due to the mystery surrounding the means of operation of this mine and the lack of countermeasures, it was a threatening weapon to Allied shipping."
"This 80,000-kw turbogenerator, put on the line late in 1948, is the third of five such units for the Port Washington plant of the Wisconsin Electric Power Company. The turbine is a tandem-compound design, using the reheat cycle. New concentrically-mounted hydrogen coolers have reduced the diameter of the generator housing and halved the total ventilating hydrogen volume. Steam conditions at throttle are 1,290 pounds per square inch (gauge) and 850 degrees Fahrenheit, with reheat at 850 degrees Fahrenheit and exhaust at 29.5 inches of mercury."
"DISTANCE-TYPE relays have been used successfully for many years to protect against phase faults on transmission lines. However, distance relays to protect against ground faults in the same satisfactory manner as for phase faults have not been generally available. The chief reason for the delay in producing these is that a ground fault is much more involved than a phase-to-phase fault so that the simple use of line-to-ground voltage and line current does not produce the right answer. The error is caused by the fact that the zero-sequence-line impedance is not equal to the positive sequence impedance, therefore distance response is varied by changes in the distribution of the positive, negative, and zero sequence currents caused by changes in system connections outside the protected line section."
"AN ELECTROTHERMIC VOLTMETER of the thermocouple type, with an adjustable resistor in series with an insulated-heater, evacuated thermoelement has been developed at the National Bureau of Standards primarily for standardizing voltmeters over a wide voltage range at audio frequencies. In conjunction with a suitable d-c potentiometer, it can be used for measuring alternating voltages from 0.4 to 400 volts at frequencies from 20 to 20,000 cycles per second, with an accuracy of 0.01 per cent. The voltmeter was intended specifically for use solely as a transfer instrument. Such instruments are designed to have ideally the same response on alternating current as on direct current, so that when calibrated with direct current they become standards which, in effect, transfer the units of measurement (which are maintained by d-c standards) to alternating current. By making sufficiently frequent calibrations, only the transfer performance or frequency influence becomes significant, and instruments intended for such use may be designed and constructed for the best possible transfer performance and for high sensitivity, at the expense of other characteristics."
"AN ELECTRICAL ENGINEER is asked to investigate a setup as shown in Figure 1. A d-c generator with a terminal voltage of 100 volts furnishes current to a series combination of resistance of 5 ohms and a black box with two terminals. The current in the circuit, as indicated by the meter M1 is 10 amperes, and the voltages across the two series elements are each 50 volts, as indicated by the meters M2 and M3. The 5-ohm resistor is rated 500 watts, but it runs a good deal hotter than the manufacturer claims it should with rated wattage; the black box, on the other hand, runs completely cool. The engineer explains this latter phenomenon by proclaiming that electric energy is not converted into heat, but into some other form of energy in the black box (for instance it may contain batteries being charged). Just to be sure of himself he connects a wattmeter in the circuit. The current coil of the wattmeter is placed in series with the ammeter, and the voltage coil is connected successively across the generator terminals, the 5-ohm resistor, and the black box. The readings of the wattmeter in the three places are respectively as follows: 1,000 watts, 1,000 watts, and zero watts for the black box!"
"Two distinctly different properties of an electric arc in an atmosphere of inert gas — a cleaning action of the arc when d-c reverse polarity is used on oxide-forming metals, and the resistance to current flow which is considerably higher when the electrode is positive — are described showing their effect on the application of the “Heliarc” welding process."
"Magnetic amplifiers are becoming more and more important in many industries. This article indicates how such desirable characteristics as ruggedness, long life, high-power possibilities, a-c operation, and practically no maintenance requirements are being applied to naval shipboard applications."
"SINCE 1928 the electric load of metropolitan New York has more than doubled. Served at the beginning by individual companies, the Consolidated Edison System is now completely integrated, operating all but three city-owned power stations in the area. The development of the Edison system has been a gradual process guided by these general fundamental policies: First, to maintain a margin of reserve capacity, determined by probability and designed to provide a minimum but adequate degree of reliability. Figure 1 summarizes system-reserve-calculation results for today and for 1952 after new unit construction. Present plans call for maintenance of 430,000-kw total reserve capacity, about 16 per cent of the 1952 peak hour load."
"AT THE OUTBREAK of World War II there was a sudden and urgent demand by our Armed Forces and Government officials for accurate secret and reliable world-wide communication networks. These were required to permit close co-ordination between all echelons and to permit handling the stupendous traffic required in conjunction with tactical, supply, and administrative problems, as well as affairs of State. This challenge was met through efforts of Bell System engineers, working closely with the Armed Forces, by providing secret teletypewriter means of communication over wire-lines and radio networks on a world-wide basis."
"ONE OF THE major unsolved problems in the insulation of electric power lines is that of obtaining trouble-free operation under conditions of severe atmospheric contamination. The presence of conducting film on the surface of outdoor insulators subjected to high voltage leads to a number of serious results. This may be summarized briefly as follows:"
"THE POWER SYSTEM operated by the Tennessee Valley Authority is centrally located in the vast network of power systems serving the south Atlantic and central United States and its generation, furnished by 32 major plants, represents about 14 per cent of the total interconnected pool capacity. The Authority's 6,666-mile transmission system is interconnected with neighboring power companies by 17 major transmission lines at 12 locations. For efficient control of generation and tie-line loadings, it has been found imperative to furnish the power system load dispatchers with a clear picture of power flowing at vital points. To secure maximum benefits from the intersystem tie lines, 68 carrier terminals are installed at 25 locations to establish the major portion of a 6,500-mile telemeter and automatic load-frequency control system. The quantity and direction of power flowing in the intersystem tie lines is telemetered an average distance of 172 miles to an operating office where the tie-line loadings are totalized."
"Called one of the most important mathematical advances of the last quarter of the 19th century, operational calculus has become a very useful and powerful tool in modern circuit theory, servo-mechanisms, and transient analysis. This summary survey gives the development and cites the present status of the subject, pointing out the fundamental differences between the more common types of operational calculi currently in use."
"XEROGRAPHY, a generic term for the formation of images by dry electrostatic means rather than by chemical processes, is based upon two scientific principles. The first is “photoconductivity,” or the ability of certain insulating materials to become electrically conductive when acted upon by light. The other is the “triboelectric effect,” or the electrical attraction of dissimilar materials in contact."
"THE OUTDOOR air switch is unique in that it is exposed to the elements and corrosive atmospheres for its entire life. Consequently, contacts and moving parts must give reliable service under conditions which no other equipment must face. In order to cope with these severe conditions, hundreds of ingenious mechanisms have made their appearance. These all have as their aim some auxiliary motion which breaks ice and corrosion with little effort before the main blade movement commences. This has resulted in a complicity of small levers, links, knuckles, gears, and so forth, which inherently cause trouble."
"Because electrical engineers have made a number of contributions to the progress of ore beneficiation, an outline of the topic is presented both as a source of general information and in an effort to stimulate interest in its future development."
"Large iron ore beneficiation plants introduce new problems of distribution and utilization of electric power in the iron mining industry. The selection of voltage levels for generation and main distribution, large and small motors, is based on a study of installed cost system reliability and efficiency. A modern load center system of distribution of a-c and d-c power for a large plant unit is demonstrated."
"PROMOTION of the use of electric energy requires that the voltage supplied to the user be of a level and a character that will not have objectionable effects upon the utilization equipment. The level supplied must be neither too high nor too low, and the variation must not be noticeable. On the other hand, it is not economically sound to furnish a voltage that is better than necessary to meet these requirements. The over-all objective, then, is to supply enough capacity for adequate voltage control at a minimum over-all cost."
"The all-important contribution of electrical engineering education has been to build up a professional group whose technical ideology is that of analytical thoroughness and correctness in detail, all in one extremely significant, yet very restricted, area of applied science. This thoroughness of training has achieved depth with great success. The advent of electronics, however, demands a broader outlook. Having achieved depth in the past, the engineering schools will be compelled by the impacts of electronics to achieve breadth in the future, and they must find a way to do so without sacrificing the strength to be found in depth."
"By indicating how, but for chance, the present confusion in electric-potential notation conventions also could have arisen in electric current notations, the author seeks to show that our troubles with potentials are man-made. He suggests that the cure of potential-definition ills is to define potential independently of any connected circuit, as is done with current."
"These are authors' digests of most of the District papers presented at the AIEE Southern District meeting, Birmingham, Ala., November 3–5, 1948. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE TRANSACTIONS or AIEE PROCEEDINGS, nor are they available from the Institute."
"I am finding that when people learn of the Student Members of our Institute they are greatly interested and most pleased. They enthuse that there is so outstanding a group of young men studying electrical engineering in the engineering colleges of recognized standing-in our land and as Student Members of our Institute having taken the first step in engineering society membership that their engineering life will be full and complete."
"The 1949 AIEE winter general meeting to be held at the Hotel Statler (formerly the Hotel Pennsylvania) in New York, N. Y., January 31-February 4, 1949, will feature a broad program of professional and social activities. The technical program, the largest in the history of the Institute, is a manifestation of the effort of the technical committees of the AIEE to cover the electrical field completely. The tentative program is comprised of 38 technical sessions presenting about 150 papers, and 18 technical conferences."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"“The Industrial Renaissance of the South,” was the theme of a 3-day meeting of the Southern District, held at Birmingham, Ala., November 3–5, 1948. In addition to the opening session, five technical sessions were held with many papers exemplifying the theme of the meeting. Two banquets were held on Wednesday and Thursday evenings with appropriate addresses, and inspection trips were arranged on Thursday and Friday afternoons to important research projects and engineering installations. An active time was provided for the women in the form of luncheons, a shopping tour, a tour of the city, a fashion show, and a visit to the largest hat factory in the South. The meeting was attended by a total of 334 members, students, and guests."
"PROCEEDINGS have been published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING as listed below. Each section of Aiee proceedings contains the full, formal text of a technical program paper, including discussion, if any, as it will appear in the annual volume of AIEE TRANSACTIONS."
"The board of examiners at its meeting of November 18, 1948, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"The Economic and Social Council of the United Nations has published a report calling for a scientific conference on the conservation and utilization of resources to be held somewhere in the United States for 15 working days during the period of May to June 1949. The conference has the support of President Truman and both the Departments of the Interior and of Agriculture."
"Pittsburgh, Pa., as president of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers for 1949 was announced at the meeting of the board of directors in New York, N. Y., on November 17. Doctor Young is a consulting mining engineer and from 1927 to 1939 was vice-president of the Pittsburgh Goal Company, which has been consolidated with a number of smaller companies to become the Pittsburgh Consolidation Coal Company, of Pittsburgh. Doctor Young has been active in the AIME for a number of years, having been elected a director in 1937 and serving as vicepresident from 1942 to 1945. He has written numerous technical papers on mine mechanization and mining practice for technical societies and engineering periodicals"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Two internationally known photographic scientists from the Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, N. Y., have had medals from photographic societies in two countries conferred upon them."
"INSTITUTE members and subscriber are invited Co contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The use of electricity as a service component of aircraft has progressed to a degree which taxes the available generator drive capacity on main engines, a deficiency which has resulted in material improvements in generator design. To provide adequate generator capacity on one recently developed airplane, it was necessary to use a relatively unconventional system employing main-engine-driven low-voltage alternators and selenium rectifiers."
"It has been proved that electricity is an essential element in the progress of agriculture. Because of the great interest throughout the electrical industry in the application of electricity to farming, this article discusses the growth of farm electrification and indicates the problem involved in increased need for rural service."
"During World War II, harbors were guarded against sneak attacks by enemy submarines by a device known as Herald. To install, operate, and maintain equipment sufficiently simple for use at frontier bases required considerable development, including such engineering problems as submerged installations, remote controls, and operating adjustments. Ultrasonic devices also were developed, for use in establishing beachheads under darkness, each unit of which contained its own power device and method of self-destruction."
"PROPER VOLTAGE LIMITS have been established by the joint Edison Electric Institute-National Electrical Manufacturers Association committee on preferred voltage ratings for a-c systems and equipment. Many regulatory commissions have established voltage limits for power utilities operating within their jurisdiction. To stay within these established limits the design voltage drop from the primary at the first transformer (“feed point”) to the customer entrance on the most distant service from the last transformer should be within 9 per cent or 11 volts on the 120-volt base. Experience and the results of studies in economic distribution system design have indicated definite apportionment of voltage drops beyond the feed point to various individual components, namely, primary, transformer, secondary, and service. It is considered that proper compensator setting on the voltage regulator to assure an optimum utilization voltage of approximately 118 volts will require a full load voltage level at the feed point or primary of the first transformer of 125 volts. The light load voltage level at the primary of the first transformer will be approximately 121 volts. Thus a 4-volt variation in voltage between light load and full load must be supplied by the regulator for this portion of a distribution system."
"IN OCTOBER OF 1940, 15 construction permits for commercial frequency modulation stations were granted by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The beginning of commercial frequency modulation was received enthusiastically by the radio industry as well as the public. Advance advertising had created considerable public demand for the static-free and high fidelity performance promised by frequency modulation."
"This article presents a summary of the development of the all-hydroelectric Southern Ontario system of the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario, in Canada, and discusses the major factors to be considered in planning this type of electric power supply system."
"Although electromagnetic protective relays are adequate for present requirements, the ever-increasing demand for higher speeds and greater accuracy and dependability seems likely to exceed the capabilities of relays now available. However, the trend toward electronic control circuits in other branches of electrical engineering, coupled with the recent improvements in the design and manufacture of electronic circuit components, indicates a possibility of overcoming these limitations."
"Diversified use of precision, snap-acting switches began less than 15 years ago and rapidly spread into every type of application where mechanical motion must open and close electric circuits. Their characteristics which differentiate them from other control devices and which give them unique usefulness are outlined in this article."
"The student trained in the wide-band frequencies will bring more to the power industry than the student trained in 60 cycle alone. To attract the student to the power industry, he must be shown that new and challenging frontiers exist. One of the first steps in the program recommended is the creation of a list of challenging thesis subjects to guide the student to the door of the power industry."
"TODAY THE D-C MOTOR with rotating regulator control is the accepted modern standard blooming mill drive in the metal-processing industry. By studying a typical blooming mill with a d-c variable-speed motor drive rated at 7,000 horsepower, 40/100 rpm, 700 volts, and by comparing it with the equivalent ratings in single speed motors, the variable speed one can be justified."
"COMMERCIAL and military aircraft have outgrown the days when they could be supplied with electric power while on the ground from a small box of batteries. As may be seen from Table I, the power requirements of an airplane on the ground have risen until this power is measured in thousands of amperes."
"This article is the result of a study made in the field of high-voltage power transmission to obtain information regarding radio-frequency propagation which may be expected from corona. Numerous experiments have been made to determine the conditions under which these radiating impulses occur."
"IN CONNECTION with a study of a-c resistance and reactance of large conductors in steel pipe and conduit, made for the Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association, measurements were made of isolated conductors in air, 3-cabled conductors in air, and finally the 3-cabled conductors in various sizes of conduit. Each of these stages raised measurements problems, especially when it became desirable to determine the component losses due to each of the several factors operating. It likewise became necessary to establish the accuracy with which measurements could be made."
"THE USUAL TYPE of powered vehicle requires a material medium upon which the vehicle exerts its thrust or traction. Thus the locomotive pushes back on its track; the propeller-driven airplane pushes back upon the surrounding atmosphere; even the jet-airplane or rocket pushes back on the discharged gases. In this essay is described a means of propulsion which does not require any material medium upon which the propelling thrust is exerted. It will be suitable, therefore, for driving space ships in interplanetary or interstellar journies and I earnestly call it to the attention of promoters and investors who contemplate entering into this virgin field of activity."
"DEVELOPMENT OF the coaxial system was started some time ago, with systems working before the war between New York, N. Y., and Philadelphia, Pa., and between Minneapolis, Minn., and Stevens Point, Wis. There are about 5,000 route miles in service providing almost three million miles of 2-way telephone circuits plus television network facilities. The entire program for the next few years roughly will triple the route miles and more than triple the circuit miles. Miami, Fla., now can talk over coaxial systems across the continent to Los Angeles, Calif., a distance of about 3,000 miles. It is also possible to talk from Albany, N. Y., to Charlotte, N. C., or from Buffalo, N. Y., to St. Louis, Mo., and by the middle of 1949, it will be possible to talk from New York to Los Angeles via Chicago over coaxials."
"Many electrical interference problems have arisen with the construction of power lines in the vicinity of communication lines throughout rural America. This article covers the solution of many of the numerous inductive co-ordination problems involving rural power and communication circuits."
"THE SMALL MARGIN of reserve capacity existing throughout the electrical utility industry due to war and postwar shortages has created an increasing interest in methods of load reduction to meet temporary emergency conditions until normal capacity can be restored. Voltage and frequency reductions within limits will affect customers very minutely. However, the over-all reduction on a large system may be sufficient in most instances to avoid the necessity of interrupting load."
"The system is a highly developed voice system of commercial grade “tailored” especially to the unique needs of the Great Lakes shipping industry, and is an important factor in the efficient operation of approximately 600 vessels. The article describes the many services of the system, as well as the ship's and shore station's equipment."
"With the ever-increasing use of complex machinery, the subject of safety, both of personnel and of the machines themselves, assumes greater importance. Although faulty control is probably a minor cause of accidents, so long as it is responsible for even a small percentage it requires the best efforts of engineers in the development of the necessary safety features."
"THE FIRST ELECTRIC shovels were equipped with rheostatic control with both d-c and a-c motors and date back to 1902. A shovel presents a variety of problems to tax the ingenuity of the motor and control application engineers. For example, a shovel hoist adds to the usual mine hoist problems, the requirement of stalling under load without interrupting motor torque."
"IF ALL TIE LINES were of ample capacity and stations under automatic control were well distributed geographically, there would be no need for tie line control except where required by contract interchange schedules. With the large scale advent of system interconnections and the necessity for more efficient operation, the tendency is to use frequency control biased by tie line load rather than frequency control only."
"These are authors' digests of most of the papers presented at the AIEE conference on electric welding, Detroit, Mich., December 6–8, 1948. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE TRANSACTIONS or AIEE PROCEEDINGS, nor are they available from the Institute."
"I once heard an engineer say, “Oh, anyone can get into the AIEE.” That was a thoughtless statement; neither is it true."
"Some 436 persons, including representatives of manufacturers and users of welding equipment, as well as utility engineers, attended the AIEE conference on electric welding held in the auditorium of the Rackham Memorial Building of the Engineering Society of Detroit, December 6–8, 1948. This was the fourth of the conferencetype meetings to be held in 1948."
"More than 500 people attended the highly successful AIEE/IRE conference on electronic instrumentation in nucleonics and medicine which was held in the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street, New York, N. Y., November 29-Decembsr 1, 1948. Originally planned as two AIEE conferences; one on electronic aids to medicine, and the other on nucleonic instrumentation, the two were combined into a joint 3-day gathering with the Institute of Radio Engineers (EE, Jul'48, pp 707–08)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The electrical manufacturing industry repeated its record-breaking performance of 1947 by establishing a new over-all peacetime peak in production and sales in the year just past. Total production is estimated at 7 1/2 billion dollars, 65 per cent higher than the prewar peak in 1941, and 275 per cent higher than in 1939, according to W. J. Donald, managing director, National Electrical Manufacturers Association."
"The Fellowship Office of the National Research Council, Washington, D. C, announces that applications for fellowships in the natural sciences now are being accepted for consideration at the spring meetings of the Fellowship Boards. The fellowship programs are supported by the Rockefeller Foundation, the Radio Corporation of America, Merck and Company, the Carnegie Corporation, and the Atomic Energy Commission, and administered by the National Research Council. These provide for both predoctoral and postdoctoral research by United States citizens (in one case, Canadian citizens are eligible). Fellowship work may be pursued in the physical, biological, agricultural, and basic medical sciences, including engineering, anthropology, and psychology. One program provides special training in the social sciences for persons with doctorates in the natural sciences, or training in the natural sciences for persons with doctorates in the social sciences."
"Deans and professors from 21 eastern colleges and universities met at the Drexel Institute of Technology, Philadelphia, Pa., for the Middle Atlantic section meeting of the American Society for Engineering Education on December 11, 1948. Together with the 400 delegates, leading industrial and government representatives attended."
"Plans already well under way for the 1949 Chicago Technical Conference and Production Show at the Hotel Stevens March 14–17, 1949, call for a “What's New” theme∗ Since the conference and production show are sponsored by the 55 affiliated societies making up the Chicago Technical Societies Council, the “What's New” theme will cover a wide range of subjects such as equipment, methods, materials, shop practice, processing, management, research, plant facilities, and so forth."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly undertood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"General Electric's President Wilson takes his cue from Emerson's essay, “The American Scholar,” in this article in which he points out to the engineer his responsibility, as a thinking man, to the society in which he lives. The professional man cannot, in good conscience, confine himself within the limits of his own technical sphere; he must learn to phrase his ideas in terms of the world."
"IT IS GOOD to be able to attend the 1949 AIEE winter general meeting. It is always good to be in New York. With it comes a thrill, a thrill of greatness, a thrill of success, a thrill of accomplishment, a thrill of achievement, a thrill of work well done. In New York is our largest Section, nearly 5,000 strong, in itself a mighty power of electrical engineering achievement for great good."
"Presentation of the 1948 Edison Medal to Morris E. Leeds “for his contributions to industry through development and production of electrical precision measuring devices and controls” was made on Wednesday, February 2, during the 1949 AIEE winter general meeting in New York, N. Y. The Edison Medal, one of the nation's highest engineering honors, is awarded annually for meritorious achievement in electrical science."
"ICANNOT OVEREMPHASIZE my profound appreciation of the great honor which the AIEE has conferred on me by awarding me the Edison Medal. Reviewing the names of the 37 previous medalists and finding on the list such men as Thomson, Westinghouse, Brush, Bell, Pupin, and Millikan, and others like them, it is with wonder and gratitude that I take a place as a minor luminary in this galaxy of first magnitude stars"
"AS ELECTRIC CONTACTS separate, a molten metallic bridge forms between them and then breaks. A transfer of contact material, called bridge erosion, accompanies the rupture of the bridge. If the inductance in a d-c circuit is reduced sufficiently and if the battery voltage is below the minimum for arcing, the phenomena of the molten bridge can be isolated for study. Careful examination of contacts operated under conditions in which bridge erosion predominates shows that, despite a gross transfer of material from anode to cathode, the explosion of a molten bridge leaves a small crater in each contact. The diameters of such craters are believed to be those of the molten bridge just before rupture and they vary with current and with resistivity of the contact material and in the expected manner."
"THE PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS of speed governors on automatic extraction turbines as related to the performance characteristics of governors on straight condensing and noncondensing extraction turbines are affected by the characteristics of the turbines themselves. “Steady state regulation” and “overspeed” may require either special treatment or additional mechanism in the governing system in order to maintain acceptable values. The addition of the “extraction pressure regulating system” requires correlation of its action with that of the speed governing system, if the additional duty that otherwise would be imposed on the speed governor is to be avoided."
"With the advent of man-made electricity, still another contributing factor to the mortality rate comes up for consideration; in the utility field alone employee deaths ascribable to electricity currently average 70 to 80 per year. As a matter of general information for the engineer working with electric current, this article discusses the basic principles and data concerning electric shock and indicates some of the physiological conditions which result."
"STEELS containing varying amounts of nickel and chromium have been found to be resistant to chemical corrosion and oxidation, and for this reason are grouped under the general name of stainless steel. Little thought was given to their adaptability in electromagnetic circuits, as it was a generally accepted fact that most of the nickel-chromium steels were nonmagnetic or relatively poor in magnetic characteristics as compared with silicon steel. However, the manufacturers of solenoid valves encountered so many valve failures in attempting to use regular steel in valves exposed to acid vapors, that they were forced to resort to the magnetically inferior stainless steels. As this is a highly specialized use of stainless steels, it was not surprising that none of the steel companies had available data on their magnetic properties."
"Several thousand electrical engineers are engaged in the many problems associated with day-to-day production of electric appliances for the home so as to keep up with the public taste in style and appearance. This article deals with many of their highly complex engineering problems involved in designing and building these domestic appliances."
"WOOD POLES and crossarms of overhead electric lines may become ignited and damaged when the surface of the insulators and wooden parts are contaminated by industrial dirt and exposed to fog or light drizzle. A few pole fires have occurred in the Chicago area under circumstances which gave a basis for further laboratory study. The circumstances surrounding these fires were peculiar in that on similar lines under apparently the same conditions no burning occurred. This prompted an investigation of the various factors contributing to pole burning in an attempt to evaluate the importance of the different variables and to develop means of prevention."
"GROUPED CONDUCTORS, two or more parallel conductors per phase, have properties which allow their use in a-c power transmission at higher voltages, including: lower surface voltage gradient, directly contributing to lower corona losses; lower inductive reactance; higher capacitive susceptance. To determine by analytical methods the degree grouped conductors affect the conductor surface voltage gradients is the aim of this article. The calculated values of voltage gradients can be used to guide tests on corona losses."
"THE BEHAVIOR of an induction motor under normal conditions of applied voltage and frequency is well understood. The purpose of this discussion is to investigate induction motor behavior when low-frequency polyphase voltages are impressed on its primary, and to consider a means of efficiently generating the required low-frequency voltages. Decreasing the frequency of the voltages impressed upon the primary or stator winding of the induction motor slows the speed of rotation of the air gap flux. The speed of the air gap flux is proportional to the frequency. Decreasing the frequency reduces the motor speed, but has no effect upon the shape of the induction motor's speed-torque curve providing the magnitude of the air gap flux is maintained constant."
"This article describes the construction, characteristics, and behavior of the newly discovered device, the transistor. Used as a semiconductor amplifier, it works on an entirely different principle and is capable of performing the same tasks now done by the vacuum tube triode."
"The success of the earlier types of transistors led to the exploration of other forms of similar amplifiers, one of which is the coaxial transistor. A description of its construction, characteristics, and many advantages are contained in this article."
"A SYSTEM has been developed which permits synchronous operation of stroboscopic light sources with certain commercial, optically compensated, and shuttered high-speed cameras. While the use of pulsed light sources for making high-speed motion pictures is not new, it is believed that this is the first successful synchronous system which combines the desirable features of one-microsecond flashlamp exposures with optical compensation of the blur caused by the continuously moving film in the high-speed camera. For this reason, the high-speed motion pictures which this system produces exceed in quality and definition those pictures taken previously. Up to 3,000 exposures per second can be made with presently available cameras."
"PUSH-BUTTON SWITCHING is a continuation of the development of reperforator switching in the handling of telegrams through central telegraph offices. It is essentially a mechanization project in which the human element is largely replaced with mechanical and electric devices. The desired goal was faster and more accurate transmission of telegrams at lower operating costs. All of these goals were achieved in large measure with the successful development and application of reperforator switching."
"CLIMATES having long dry periods allow considerable dust to accumulate on line insulators. The performance of these dust-contaminated insulators in fog-laden atmospheres constitutes a major problem."
"The novelty of the present high-voltage aeronautical electric systems requires designers to realize their responsibility for safety in design, and the aircraft personnel to be trained in safe working techniques. The author describes many hazards and how they can be avoided through proper design and job safety training."
"Industry has found a multitude of diverse applications for electrostatic precipitation. This article describes the functions of the various types of electrostatic precipitators in use today and points out their common characteristics, and in particular the similarities of their electric power requirements."
"AUTOMOBILES, SHIPS, AIRPLANES, certain radars, and gun fire control systems are examples of complex devices built for human operation. As these machines are developed and improved they tend to become more automatic, with the man doing less to make them work. However, men will continue to play an important role in such activities for some years to come. So long as they do serve as controlling links in the electromechanical devices which they construct for their business, pleasure, or destruction, it will be necessary to understand how they operate as a part of these devices."
"CURRENT TRANSFORMER core saturation has contributed largely to the difficulty of obtaining satisfactory bus differential relaying in the past. The scheme here proposed uses differentially connected standard bushing current transformers, and is supported by test data permitting wide application. The relay used has high impedance in comparison to the resistance of the current transformer secondaries and this accounts for its successful operation in precluding false tripping on external faults even when one or more of the current transformers has become completely saturated."
"More consideration is given to the quality of the television picture at this time as the television industry moves along through its expansion period. In this article the author describes the role that highlight brightness and contrast range play in producing the picture quality that is most pleasing to the eye."
"DESIGNED TO BE DRIVEN at 24,000 rpm by a gas turbine, the G-80 alternator is a 50-kw generator for supplying a-c power to 3-phase 208/120-volt 400-cycle aircraft electric systems. This equipment combines the lightness of high-speed electric rotating equipment with the possibility of direct connection to a high-speed gas turbine, thereby eliminating gearing and replacing the noise and vibration of the reciprocating engine with the comparatively quiet and smooth flow of power from the turbine."
"THE THEORY underlying design of 3-phase coaxial busses comprised of square tubular conductors has been developed by the authors in a recent paper. In this article:"
"ALICE walked over to a workbench in the laboratory upon which there was some apparatus with an open laboratory notebook beside it. The apparatus consisted of a glass tube whose internal diameter was about four centimeters, containing two rather snugly fitting plane electrodes, clearing the walls by about a millimeter, and separated from each other by two or three centimeters. Wires came up to the tube, and there was a confusion of switches, meters, and gauges. Alice read in the notebook: With one megohm in series to limit the current I applied 3,000 volts direct current to the spark-gap. No breakdown occurred. On lowering the voltage to about 2,000 volts, the gap suddenly broke down, glowing, with a current of 0.2 milliampere flowing through it. On raising the voltage, the gap is suddenly cleared, giving zero current. This I repeated many times. The gap spacing was 2.7 centimeters and the gas pressure was 0.8 millimeter of mercury."
"These are authors' digests of most of the papers presented at the conference on electronic instrumentation in nucleonics and medicine, sponsored jointly by the AIEE and the Institute of Radio Engineers, New York, N. Y., November 29-December 1, 1948. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE TRANSACTIONS or AIEE PROCEEDINGS, nor are they available from the Institute. However, full texts of papers presented during the first day of the conference (indicated by an asterisk in the following) may be published in booklet form if the demand is sufficient to warrant such publication. Interested persons should communicate with Doctor W. A. Geohegan, Cornell University Medical College, 1300 York Avenue, New York 21, N. Y."
"These are authors' digests of most of the papers presented at the conference on high-frequency measurements, sponsored jointly by the AIEE, the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C., January 10–12,1949. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE TRANSACTIONS or AIEE PROCEEDINGS nor are they available from the Institute. However, full texts of papers presented during the first day of the conference (indicated by an asterisk in the following) may be published in booklet form if the demand is sufficient to warrant such publication. Interested persons should communicate with Doctor W. A. Geohegan, Cornell University Medical College, 1300 York Avenue, New York 21, N. Y."
"The technical contributions of the electrical engineer never cease — they have advanced electricity into every available avenue for the service of man, which has been characterized as more revolutionary for the well-being of the people of the world than any other material thing in recorded history. And so it is in our Institute; the base is ever broadening, ever expanding."
"The 1949 AIEE South West District meeting will be held in Dallas, Tex., April 19–21, with headquarters in the Baker Hotel."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The conference on high-frequency measurements, held in Washington, D. C, January 10–12, 1949, was one of the most successful conferences held thus far. Fifth of the new type of AIEE meetings known as “technical conferences” (EE, Feb '48, p 189), it drew an attendance of some 584 high-frequency measurements specialists who heard papers on all phases of this interesting field. The gathering was the first of its kind to be held on a national basis where the topics were devoted solely to the field of high-frequency measurements."
"When plans were being made for the 1949 winter general meeting in New York, N. Y., announcements went forth that the technical committees were making a special effort to assemble a technical program which would cover the electrical field completely. The results of these efforts were demonstrated graphically at the Hotel Statler during the week of January 31-February 4, when this year's meeting program, featuring a total of 55 technical sessions and conferences covering some 226 papers, officially went on record as the largest technical program in the history of the Institute. The program was organized under four general topics: communication and science, power, industry, and general applications."
"Eta Kappa Nu (H K N), national honorary electrical engineering society, presented its Recognition Award to Abe M. Zarem, Stanford Research Institute, Los Angeles, Calif., for being “the most outstanding young electrical engineer of 1948,” at a banquet held at the Henry Hudson Hotel on Monday evening during the AIEE winter general meeting. This was the 13th presentation of such an award by the society. The award was established by Eta Kappa Nu in 1936 to recognize meritorious service in the interest of their fellowmen on the part of young electrical engineers, not only for their technical ability and accomplishments already achieved, but also for their interest in cultural and civic advancement and their promise for future developments."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Leading members of the sanitary and waterworks engineering professions met in Washington, D. C., during the last week in January to attend a seminar on the disposal of radioactive wastes. This seminar, held by the United States Atomic Energy Commission, is part of the continuing effort on the part of the government to maintain close liaison with public health and safety officials on mutual problems arising out of the national atomic energy program."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new book are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of Interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” AD inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Co-operative education has proved to be a major element in preparing engineering students for their professional careers. In essence, it is a plan whereby students alternate periods of study in school with periods of activity in industry. Recent developments in operation indicate even greater interest, and consequently new work areas, for the future."
"The advent of the “all-electric” shutter makes possible the detailed photographic study of light from very rapidly changing self-luminous objects. Shutter control is sufficiently positive and accurate to permit operation at any pre-selected instant with a precision of 5 × 10−9 second. This article presents the theory and describes the development of this simple, reliable, and compact optical shutter which utilizes a Kerr cell as a light valve."
"COMMERCIAL impulse tests, which have been performed for approximately 16 years, are conducted in various manners depending upon the rules in effect at the time. Periodically, the rules are amended to incorporate improvements in the technique of testing. It is a purpose of this article to show how excitation during an impulse test complicates the test and interpretation of results."
"SEVERAL INSTALLATIONS of 300-kw mercury arc frequency-changing equipment have been made in the United States for induction melting and heating applications. An analysis is presented of the basic circuit for electronic conversion of 3-phase power of commercial system frequencies into single-phase power of a frequency of the order of 1,000 cycles."
"A number of electric power utilities have been concerned somewhat over the television power load, which will represent an approximate load of two million kw for the ten million television receivers estimated to be in use in the next five years. This article covers the nature of the load represented by television receivers and the probable trend of television power requirements in the future."
"THE RECENT PROGRESS in the electric arc furnace installation has produced improvements in virtually all phases of the installation with automatic operation and minimum maintenance of the equipment one important goal. Arc furnace switching, which is one important part of furnace operation, is generally well known for the severe duty it imposes on the switching device. Since fault protection as well as automatic switching is required, the practice has been to use a circuit breaker for both switching and protection. However, in order for the circuit breaker to withstand the mechanical duty, it has been necessary to use a circuit breaker especially designed for the purpose. Oil circuit breakers were used originally on arc furnace circuits, but because of the frequency of switching operations the oil deteriorated rapidly by carbonizing, and it was necessary to replace the oil frequently. Unless the oil was replaced, it became very likely that it would fail as an insulating medium when voltage surges appeared. These voltage surges, which are characteristic of arc furnace circuits, make it necessary that the switching equipment for such applications be one voltage class higher than the circuit in which it will operate."
"The “Big and Little Big Inch” lines, two of the longest gas transmission lines in America, depend entirely on electric energy for their operation. One two-hundred and eightieth of our entire yearly electric power consumption is used by their many pieces of equipment. The successful conversion of these lines, which originally were built and used during the war for carrying crude oil and refined petroleum products, is described in this article."
"PERMANENT MAGNETS used in apparatus often are subjected to demagnetization by current surges or stray fields. This weakens the magnet and changes the adjustment. Magnets usually are stabilized against such demagnetizing forces by partial demagnetization. Because, under this condition, the magnet operates at a point within the demagnetization curve quadrant, some other criterion of performance must be applied in magnet design. Under stabilized conditions it operates on a curve which is called a secondary demagnetization curve and can be derived from the major demagnetization curve:(a). By an applied demagnetizing magnetomotive force after magnetization in assembly. (b). By magnetization of the magnet before assembly in its magnetic circuit."
"From the first crude electric iron manufactured almost 50 years ago, the automatic iron has come a long way to the streamlined iron with adjustable temperature controls that we know today. The evolution of the modern automatic iron, in performance, heating efficiency, temperature control, and styling, is considered in this article."
"THEVENIN'S theorem can be stated as follows: “With respect to any single external circuit connected to any given pair of terminals of a network, the network can be replaced by a single branch having an impedance, Z, equal to the impedance measured at these terminals looking into the network when all the network electromotive forces are made zero, and containing a single electromotive force, E0, equal to the open-circuit voltage of the network across the given pair of terminals.”"
"Recent advancements in all branches of science have created demands for high-speed counting devices. The development of the electronic digital counters, which are used for many purposes in the large computers, has made such fast computations possible. These counters, which use the binary system, are described in detail in this article."
"RADIATION from diathermy, electronic heating, and other industrial devices is now subject to federal regulation. There is no commercial equipment available that is suitable for measuring electromagnetic fields at frequencies above 400 megacycles per second. The present procedure is to use the receiver-signal generator substitution method. This requires the use of a pickup device of known characteristics."
"THE POWER SYSTEMS in the Southwest were banded together during the war to provide adequate capacity for supplying energy to large war industries in that area. To insure delivery of power and assist the dispatchers, the area was equipped with extensive carrier communication, telemetering, and load-control facilities. Since the war it has become increasingly necessary for each system to carry its own loads. Effective scheduling of generation could be obtained only by giving the system load dispatcher the proper load information at strategic points on the system."
"A method for estimating the lightning performance of transmission lines is presented in this article. It is based on the stroke current probability data and takes into account all the line parameters believed to affect the performance materially. The curves cover the complete range of transmission line designs."
"IN the standard method for making temperature tests of transformers, the average winding rises are computed from resistance measurements taken after shutdown. This procedure becomes inaccurate when high or rapidly changing temperatures are involved, as in rated-load tests on certain dry-type transformers or in overload tests on oil-immersed apparatus."
"THE DIESEL-POWERED locomotive has emerged as one of the most efficient and economical forms of motive power available to industrial and railway users, ranging in size from 100 to 8,000 horsepower. This versatility is due largely to the electric transmission system by means of which the relatively constant torque of the engine is transformed to the varying torque required at the driving wheels for effective utilization of full engine horsepower over the operating range of the locomotive."
"DEVICES which depend for their operation on the linking of magnetic flux with a current-carrying coil produce a transient voltage in their coils when they are de-energized suddenly. The magnitude and duration of such a transient depend on many design and operating factors. Included are size, shape, permeability, and resistivity of the magnetic material, as well as the maximum area to be surrounded by individual eddy currents, the magnitude of the exciting force, coil voltage, number of turns, and the speed of current interruption. In general, the large devices initiate transients having much more energy and longer duration but often of lower voltage than do small devices such as relays."
"These are authors' digests of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE winter general meeting, New York, N. Y., January 31-February 4, 1949. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE TRANSACTIONS or AIEE PROCEEDINGS, nor are they available from the Institute."
"The publications of our Institute are another of the great strengths of our Institute. When we say publications we mean:"
"The publications of the Institute are designed to advance effectively the theory and practice of electrical engineering and the allied arts at minimum cost to members. The electrical industry today is highly specialized. To attempt to distribute all of the technical papers in specialized fields to a large membership would not only be prohibitive but wasteful and inefficient. With these views in mind, each of the different types of publications has been planned carefully to bring the most useful material to the greatest number of members. To enhance the usefulness of the service, each publication is reviewed briefly in respect to content and objective together with a statement telling how it may be procured. For those interested in greater detail the publication policy now in effect was announced in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING for December 1946, pages 576–8. Reprints of the policy are available on request."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Dallas, Tex., with the aid of its sister city, Fort Worth, is all set to play host to the AIEE South West District meeting to be held April 19–21, 1949. The program for this meeting has been designed along broad lines so as to be of interest to everyone in the great Southwest. The meeting will open with a luncheon on Tuesday at which the story of the economic growth of the Southwest will be told. On Thursday morning, a general session will be devoted to the electrical engineers' contributions to this growth. It is expected that both of these features will be of broad interest, not only to members of the Institute, but to the general public as well."
"Editor's Note: This department is being created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees. It will include brief news reports of committee activities and proposed plans for such projects as special technical conferences and sessions at general meetings. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The achievement of personal contact among engineers, and the study of engineering problems common to the two American continents are the primary objectives of the First Pan American Congress to be held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, July 15–24, 1949. The congress will be preceded by a meeting of engineers in São Paulo, July 9–13."
"That the representatives of all the constituent societies had concurred on the revised draft of the constitution for the Engineers Joint Council was reported at a council meeting held February 7. The proposed constitution then was referred back to the five participating societies, the AIEE, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers (AIME), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), and the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE), for official approval. J. E. Housley, H. H. Henline, and James F. Fairman represented the AIEE at the council meeting."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of Interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"By exporting large quantities of electric equipment, the electrical industry of the United States is making a definite contribution to world recovery. However, an even greater contribution can be made and indeed is being made, through the export of an intangible commodity, “American engineering know-how.” This type of international co-operation functions through license and technical assistance agreements between American and foreign firms."
"INFREQUENT REPORTS of severe mechanical damage to small transformers as a result of nearby lightning strokes have led to the conclusion that the cause of the damage was the passage of heavy lightning currents in opposing directions in the two halves of the low-voltage windings. These cases have been rare but are of considerable interest as they have led to the consideration of the effects of the more frequent lightning currents of smaller magnitude flowing in distribution-transformer low-voltage windings."
"THERE IS a fundamental difference in the life of insulation containing organic material operated in an insulating liquid as contrasted to the same insulation operated in a gas medium. When operated in an insulating liquid, the liquid tends to replace the material deteriorated and so maintains electrical strength. When operated at a high temperature in a gas medium, as the deterioration progresses, the gas replacing the varnish has a much lower dielectric strength. The base material may or may not deteriorate depending on whether it is organic or inorganic."
"This method of cooling is as revolutionary as hydrogen cooling was in the twenties. This article describes the fundamentals of vaporization cooling, the electric machines with this cooling, and the effect of the coolant upon the insulation and other interior parts."
"FLASHOVER of suspension insulators on steel towers caused by a deposit of moisture on dirty insulators is not unusual on high-voltage transmission lines. These troubles can be prevented by washing the insulators; however, this procedure is expensive so that frequent washing is undesirable. The aim of the investigation described in this article was to determine means of increasing the insulation level of existing lines under fog and dirt conditions so that the insulators could withstand prolonged contamination."
"THE CARBON pile voltage regulator used on aircraft is an electromechanical device designed to maintain constant generator voltage under the varying loads and speeds encountered. The speed requirement is especially severe as aircraft generators are driven from the main engines and thus are subjected to a speed range of at least two to one."
"With the rapid expansion of broad-band carrier telephone systems throughout the United States, the use of these facilities for program transmission has become desirable. This article describes a carrier program system capable of transmitting a band about 8,000 cycles wide."
"THE RAPIDLY EXPANDING USE of telemetering by power companies is made possible largely by carrier-current channels. Anticipating the requirements of present-day telemetering needs, a narrow-band frequency-shift type of equipment was developed; this equipment has received wide acceptance."
"THE SIZE of conductors for overhead lines generally has been selected on the basis of obtaining the required voltage regulation and most economical power loss. Usually, these criteria result in a larger size than would be necessary from a thermal limitation. However, there have been many instances, such as in short tie lines, where it has been necessary or desirable to load the conductors to their thermal limit. For this reason there has been a continuing interest in the determination of both the maximum continuous and short-time emergency overload capabilities of the conductors. Insufficient data on the annealing characteristic of copper prevented the establishment of uniformly acceptable limits."
"The above-pictured metal lens antenna simulates an optical system by utilizing a group of wave guides as the elements of the high-frequency lens. This piece of equipment, as well as many others, was examined during an investigation of German technical developments of World War II and is described in this article."
"THE HIGH-CAPACITY 2-stage Rototrol shows great promise as the principal element in large generator excitation systems. Figure 1 illustrates a voltage-regulating system. The main unit is a 70,000-kva 3,600-rpm turbo-generator. The excitation is supplied by a 200-kw 2-stage Rototrol. The static network consists of a saturating reactor, the impedance of which is compared automatically with a capacitive reactance of constant value. As the generator voltage increases, the reactance of the saturating reactor decreases until at the regulated voltage, the reactances of both elements are equal. In this manner, a reference point is obtained. The output of the static network is rectified by dry-type rectifiers and introduced into the control field of the Rototrol."
"THE USE of electricity in one form or another for heating homes has been considered off and on over a span of many years throughout the electrical utility industry. It is generally conceded, however, that, at the existing state of the art, electricity cannot compete in cost for house heating, on a direct energy conversion basis, with other fuels, such as coal, oil, or gas."
"IN THE CALCULATION of the temperatures attained by underground cable systems, the Kennelly formula for calculating that portion of the temperature rise occurring in the earth was developed in 1893. Various objections since have been raised to the use of this formula, chiefly because it has been believed that it is contradicted by experimental evidence."
"Based upon experience to date, there is every reason to believe that an adequate and satisfactory method of conducting graduate technical education can be accomplished by taking the courses off the campus to the student who is already in industry. This article, which describes two such programs carried out by the Illinois Institute of Technology, is the second to be published of a group of papers presented at a symposium on education held during the recent winter meeting; the first paper in the series appeared in the April issue.1"
"MOST ELECTRICAL UTILITIES operate more mileage of 120–240-volt single-phase secondary distribution mains than any other transmission or distribution voltage. It is important that such secondary lines and the size and spacing of the associated distribution transformers be designed for over-all economy."
"A D-C CONTROLLABLE REACTOR is an iron-cored inductor in which the a-c impedance can be varied over wide limits by magnetically saturating the iron with an auxiliary d-c winding. Because of its ruggedness, ease of control, and low losses, it has found continually wider application as a control device."
"SINCE REDUCTION of maintenance was the primary objective for the development of a new watt-hour meter, detailed consideration was given during its design to the resistance-to-surge problem. By reducing the hazards of meter damage from surges, longer service periods without attention are possible. This provides savings which are particularly important to operating utilities under present conditions of increasing labor costs for maintenance and testing of meters."
"Rebroadcasting of National Broadcasting Company originated television programs from New York, N. Y., by station WRGB in Schenectady, N. Y., has been carried on since 1940. Until 1947 this was done by receiving the New York signal near Schenectady and employing a short 160-megacycle link. Since that time a 4-link microwave relay has been in use on frequencies in the 2,000-megacycle region. This installation has shown definite advantages and is applicable for systems requiring a small number of links, with line-of-sight paths up to 60 miles."
"THE HAZARDS represented by stray electric currents in coal mines and earth strata have been a major problem since electric shot-firing methods were introduced some years ago. The accident records of the mining industry are replete with instances of premature explosions and shot-firing accidents of various kinds for which the only logical explanation is stray electric currents in the earth."
"THIS SUBJECT is a matter of prime importance to a manufacturer of standard National Electrical Manufacturers' Association machines. Because of the necessity for meeting a series of ratings in a given frame size, the method of approach to the problem differs from that used to design a machine for only one rating."
"Considerable progress has been made in the development of boiler units and control equipment to meet the special requirements of fluctuating loads. This article discusses various designs so as to show what load fluctuations are possible and what limitations are encountered in planning for this type of load."
"A DUAL-CIRCUIT generator as described in this article is a 4-pole d-c generator with one commutator and two load circuits. Each load circuit is independent of the other circuit, with respect to load, voltage, and polarity, although they are not electrically isolated from each other. Figure 1 shows how the load circuits are connected to the armature. This type of generator is not new, but until recently it was built with two commutating poles. One commutating pole had one winding excited by the current of one circuit, and the other commutating pole had one winding excited by the current of the other circuit. Commutation was the limiting factor in the older design, and required the generator to be underrated as compared to a standard d-c generator."
"THERE are certain applications for magnetic recording that require the storage of information in the form of coded pulses in magnetic media such as wire or tape. To conserve space, it is necessary to record the greatest number of pulses in each linear inch of the medium that is possible without the pulses losing distinctness or objectionably blending with the preceding or succeeding pulses. Studies of the magnetizing current, pulse width, and frequency as related to this blending have been made, using wire as the recording medium. During the studies it became evident that useful information could be obtained if the size of the pulses as recorded on the wire could be directly determined. A wire retaining magnetically recorded pulses is similar to a succession of short cylindrical magnets laid in a line and connected end to end by a permeable medium. Therefore, if the magnetic field surrounding these minute magnets could be mapped and the pattern photographed, the distance between the magnetic poles could be determined easily. As is well known from elementary physics, iron filings when scattered about a magnet are not only attracted to the magnet but also arrange themselves in definite lines that apparently begin and end at the so-called poles of the magnet. These lines of iron filings are said to “map” the magnetic field. In a similar way, the magnetic field of extremely small magnets can be mapped if the iron particles are sufficiently small and proper techniques are used in producing the patterns."
"THE ADVANTAGE of using low-loss cable in conjunction with power-line carrier equipment has been recognized for some years. The use of this cable has made it possible to locate the carrier transmitter-receiver in the most convenient place rather than out near the capacitor which couples the carrier signal to the power line. Coaxial-cable connections have resulted in much more flexible carrier installations than was possible before this type of cable was used."
"Glass insulators on pole lines in some areas are subject to much mischievous breakage by children and hunters who utilize them in target practice, sometimes to the extent that almost weekly replacements are necessary. To solve the problem, a vulcanized rubber insulator has been developed which has proved in test to be both durable and efficient."
"IN early experiments and studies of the air-blast circuit breaker, the conclusion was reached that no upper limit of interrupting capacity within a reasonably visualized range existed. This conviction was expressed by P. L. Taylor and H. W. Martin in a paper presented at a meeting of the AIEE in New York in 1942. As a matter of fact, it was surmised that whether the arc was drawn axially with the blast or perpendicular to the same, interruption always occurred with the arc axial with the blast. The reason for this appears to be the greater action of the blast on the radially diffused thermal ions when the arc is parallel to and surrounded by the blast."
"THE IDEA of concentrating electric energy generation at one point in a train, on or behind the locomotive, becomes increasingly attractive with the increase in electric loads on modern passenger cars. The advantages and disadvantages of head end power against those of the conventional d-c axle generator storage battery equipments have been considered. In favor of head end power were simplicity of installation and maintenance, reliability, and elimination of parasitic axle generator drag. The principal argument against head end power lay in its lack of operating flexibility. All cars in such a train must be wired for trainline operation, so that no other cars can be added."
"The flux linking law, ∊ = − dφ/dt, and the flux cutting law, ∊ = Bvl, often erroneously are considered as merely different ways of expressing the same phenomena. This article attempts to dispel the confusion surrounding the subject of electromagnetic induction."
"THE MICROWAVE SYSTEM is a very-high-frequency beamed radio channel for transmitting information from point to point, and promises to become a valuable tool to electric power systems as a channel for the transmission of information. Relaying, telemetering, supervisory control, and communication are functions which could use such a channel. The information required by these functions now is being sent over pilot wires and power line carrier channels. The microwave channel, by virtue of its air-line transmission and the large number of quantities which can be transmitted from point to point on a single beam, opens up application possibilities which cannot be handled with present methods."
"ACASE having two pairs of electrical terminals is said to contain a transformer. By steady-state 60-cycle measurements at the terminals, determine precisely the primary and secondary turn ratio. Assume that electrostatic capacity effects are negligible"
"On outstanding occasions in our Institute life we have been carried to pinnacles of inspiration and vision for future achievement. So were we at our recent winter general meeting in New York, N. Y., when Charles E. Wilson addressed some 1,000 of our members on “The Professional Estate.” Full text of Mr. Wilson's address was published in ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (EE, Mar '49, pp 187–90). I trust you all have read it, thought about it, and have brought it into your lives as motivation for the unparalleled opportunities of the electrical engineer to serve with his fellowmen."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A technical program including 22 sessions, 5 technical conferences, and a general session will be a feature of the 1949 AIEE summer general meeting in Swampscott, Mass., according to plans recently announced. The meeting will take place June 20–24, with headquarters at the New Ocean House."
"The AIEE Pacific general meeting for 1949 will be held in San Francisco, Calif., at the Fairmont Hotel from Tuesday, August 23, to Friday, August 26. Tentative arrangements have been completed and a condensed schedule of events is given in the following. The year 1949 is a commemorative one for San Francisco, marking, as it does, the centennial of the great California gold rush. Anyone planning a western vacation this Fall will find many events of interest in that historic city and, by combining vacation with attendance at the Pacific meeting, can make a stay in San Francisco a highly profitable one."
"A regular meeting of the AIEE board of directors was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., on February 3, 1949."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribes are invited Co contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of Interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This article presents the results of the most recent investigations in the field of ferromagnetism. There have been a number of new ideas brought forth through research along these lines, of which three of the most outstanding ones are herewith explained and illustrated."
"VOLT-AMPERE demand measurement has been a subject of discussion and interest for many years, and many different schemes have been proposed for measuring it, or approximations to it. This article discusses the technical principles and performance of a thermal volt-ampere demand meter and does not consider the problems of rate structures and their relation to units of demand measurement."
"NEW ADVANCES in electronics, accelerated by the recent war, offer many applications in addition to their use for military, aviation, or communication purposes. Heretofore, the use of electronic circuits in relaying schemes has been mainly to supplement the more conventional electromagnetic schemes. Examples are the use of carrier current in a pilot directional scheme and auxiliary electronic relays for timing. The purpose of the development work described here has been twofold — firstly, to apply the newer techniques to the fullest advantage and secondly, to employ electronic circuits so that they will perform complete relaying functions in themselves. The advantages offered by these new electronic relay circuits compared with electromagnetic or prior electronic types are: 1. The number of moving parts and contacts has been reduced to an absolute minimum by having all functions of fault detection, determination of direction and distance, insertion of intentional time delays, and so on, performed by the electronic elements. 2. The circuits are constructed of standard electronic parts. 3. A high degree of accuracy is obtainable in the determination of overcurrents, the measurement of distances to faults, and in the insertion of intentional time delays. 4. The sensitivity of the vacuum-tube elements provides fast action even with very low control voltages. 5. There are a minimum of magnetic parts, eliminating errors due to saturation. 6. All vacuum-tube circuits place very light loads on the tubes with a minimum of tube types involved."
"The past quarter of a century has witnessed important progress in traction-motor design. The primary objective of the designer has been to achieve weight reduction. In order to evaluate the advances made along this line, the author uses “speed-ratio power” as a basis of comparison."
"In the medical profession, a period of “internship” during which the young graduate learns to put his knowledge to work has been established as a definite step in the preparation of a doctor for his field. So, too, in the engineering profession is such a period of internship necessary to bridge the transition from theory to practice successfully. This is the third article in a series presented at a symposium on education during the 1949 AIEE Winter Meeting.1,2"
"THE POLAR vector indicator is a device to indicate the magnitude and relative phase angle of two or three voltages as vectors on a cathode-ray tube screen. A reference voltage is chosen and assigned the arbitrary angle of zero degrees. It is shown as a straight horizontal line whose half length, starting at the center of the cathode-ray screen and extending to the right, is proportional to the amplitude of the reference."
"COMMUTATION normally is considered from the standpoint of the reactance voltage produced in the machine due to load current and rotation, which voltage is short-circuited by the brush. This voltage can be considered as being produced by a changing and reversing current through the self and mutual inductance of the armature coils being commutated or it may be thought of as being produced by the armature coils being commutated, cutting a resultant armature field, stationary in space, located in the interpolar space between each main pole and produced by load current in the armature coils themselves. In any case, the designer is interested in proportioning his machine so that the magnetic structure and the winding combinations and commutator and brush rigging give a structure which develops the desired voltage, carries the designed current, and will commutate successfully."
"THEORETICAL work on the determination of short-circuit current in d-c machines is now sufficiently complete so that standard practices can be set up in the same way as already has been done for synchronous machines."
"The author, a medical doctor, employs electrical engineering terminology to show how the brain may be likened to a digital computing machine consisting of ten billion relays called neurons. To carry the analogy further, the performance of the brain is governed by inverse feedback, subsidiary networks secure invariants, or ideas, predictive filters enable us to move toward the place where the object will be when we get there, and complicated servo-mechanisms enable us to act with facility and precision. Disorders of function are explained in terms of damage to the structure, improper voltage of the relays, and parasitic oscillations."
"This article describes two gas turbines designed for power generation. Also, a number of other possibilities for gas turbine use are presented to indicate the wide field to which the present units are adapted and to show the general present state of development."
"“BLACK BANDS” have been used for many years JD to compare the commutating ability of d-c machines and to set the brushes in the proper place. A black band, as used here, is defined as the number of amperes by which the current through the commutating winding can be changed without producing sparking at the brush faces. This band width usually is taken at 25, 50, 75, 100, 125, and 150 per cent of rated load. This is plotted as shown in Figure 1, the black band being the shaded portion."
"LIGHTNING is very erratic in nature and plans for measurements must be made with extreme care. Two methods of lightning-current measurement were used successfully in a 4-year study on a rural distribution line and the results obtained are described in a recent paper.1"
"SERVICE EXPERIENCE with electric apparatus has indicated that in many cases the presence of “contaminants” has contributed to the failure of electrical insulation. In the category of contaminants are included moisture, salt, oil, carbonaceous materials, and dust. Such contaminants may adversely affect both the physical and electrical properties of electrical insulation."
"Applications of multifrequency pulsing in switching are described in this article. Today, many installations of this type are being made in cities throughout the nation. This system permits operators or senders to complete calls to crossbar offices without the aid of other operators."
"THE NONLINEAR relationship between exciting current and the flux generated in magnetic alloys is a source of continuous difficulties in the design of magnetic devices and circuits. Magnetic recording is not an exception to the rule. The audio signals are recorded as elements of residual magnetism stored along the length of the magnetic wire or tape."
"STANDARD open general-purpose d-c motors, rated 0.5-, 5-, 10-, 25-, and 50-horsepower, 40 degrees centigrade, 1,750 rpm, have been tested for stray load losses by five manufacturers on an exchange program at the request of the AIEE committee on rotating machinery. The purpose has been twofold: firstly, to determine how well the actual stray load loss agrees with the standard practice of taking this loss as one per cent of the output power; secondly to seek a more accurate determination of the loss in terms of the load current and the voltage, speed, and size of the machine."
"With the development of large-scale manufacture of popular-priced television receiving sets in response to greatly increased demand, television now has reached the status of a full-fledged industry. The next major development probably will be color television, however black-and-white television still is undergoing rapid changes which should result eventually in lower-priced receivers with clearer pictures and greater contrast."
"The ordinary rectifier circuit is used in many applications. Single-phase excitation is the most common for low power requirements. In order to increase the ripple frequency and thus simplify the filter design, it is necessary to introduce some phase inverter device, usually a transformer with a center tapped secondary, and full-wave rectification is obtained. Under such condition of operation the average currents through each half of the secondary are equal and their directions are such as to produce a net zero average magnetomotive force on the core of the transformer. As the magnetomotive force due to the primary current must oppose that due to the secondary currents, and as the net secondary magnetomotive force has zero average, the primary current will have zero average."
"IN RECENT YEARS, there has been considerable interest in both the tapping of high-voltage transmission lines to serve various types of loads and in the installation of the transformers on these taps without high-voltage circuit breakers. The necessity of supplying war loads with a minimum use of material provided a great incentive in this direction. Also, the present high costs of construction have increased the desirability of this type of installation."
"Control of system frequency usually has been considered an electrical problem; however, fluctuations affect the turbine in many respects. This article outlines the reasons for the present interest in the subject of fluctuating load, points out the effect of these fluctuations on the operating conditions in the turbine, and describes design features which permit this method of operation."
"These are authors' digests of most of the papers presented at the AIEE Conference on the Industrial Application of Electron Tubes, Hotel Statler, Buffalo, N. Y., April 11–12, 1949. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings. However, complete transcripts of the papers and written discussions will be made available as a consolidated booklet. Advance orders should be sent to R. S. Gardner, AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., at $3.50 a copy."
"These are authors' digests of most of the District papers presented at the AIEE South West District Meeting, Dallas, Tex., April 19–21, 1949. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"The electrical engineers at Richland, Wash., who had been granted Section status by our Board of Directors asked me if I would be present at their inaugural meeting on my way to the Pacific General Meeting of our Institute at Spokane last August. This, I told them, I would be delighted to do. Richland is our 82d Section."
"The AIEE Board of Directors desires to obtain the opinion of the membership on a general question which affects some of the long-term policies of the Institute. With a better understanding of the wishes of the membership, the Board's decisions on many matters which come before it can be made with more assurance that the Directors are carrying out the desires of the membership."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 1949 AIEE Summer General Meeting, which will be held in Swampscott, Mass., June 20–24, will provide a technical program of broad interest, with opportunity for inspection trips, sports, and social recreation. Swampscott, on Boston's north shore, affords unlimited opportunity for healthful outdoor enjoyment. It is located at the center of the great historical and educational background of New England. The New Ocean House, meeting headquarters, is located right on the Atlantic Ocean, and has a private beach, extensive grounds, and an excellent 1,000-yard golf course. Points of historical interest, such as Lexington, Concord, Marblehead, Salem, Gloucester, Plymouth, Cambridge, and “White Court,” formerly the summer home of President Coolidge, contribute toward making Swampscott a location of outstanding interest"
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Intelligence is the most highly sought after personal quality in an engineering employee in the opinion of 44 of the nation's top-level engineering executives, who participated in a survey recently concluded by the Engineers' Council for Professional Development to provide facts about human personality which would be valuable in its program of student and professional development. Results of the 3-year survey which was broadened to include opinions of college administrators, faculty, personnel officials, and engineering students, are published in a 25 page-booklet, “The Most Desirable Personal Characteristics,” in which the data submitted by 1,033 respondents are plotted in 15 bar charts and curves, and interpreted by the ECPD Subcommittee on Student Development."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish at many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication hero in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of Interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisements."
"Frequently new ideas in a field are expressed inadequately in the nomenclature of prior art, whose terms may not be applicable to the new conception in certain respects; when this deficiency is realized a suitable nomenclature must be devised. In this article the author points out an example of this tendency in the present use of the term “vector” to describe the directed lines used in the treatment of sinusoidal functions and suggests that the term “sinor” be more appropriately used."
"In an effort to secure some indication of 1949 employment programs for engineering graduates, an Engineers Joint Council committee recently concluded a survey of representative industrial companies and governmental agencies. Of 500 questionnaires sent out late in January, about 190 had been returned by the latter part of March and are included in the preliminary tabulation of results now released."
"DIE-CAST rotors for induction motors have been manufactured for ratings from about 1/200 to 50 horsepower for approximately 25 years, and more recently rotors have been die-cast for the larger ratings through 125 horsepower. They have many advantages to both the manufacturer and customer. The die-cast rotor is a solid and fairly homogeneous mass that retains its balance, and in general, gives the customer good all-around performance. The manufacturer generally can make die-cast rotors at a lower cost which is to the advantage of both the customer and manufacturer. Since World War II, aluminum, which is used in die-cast rotors, has been more plentiful than copper and at a lower cost, thus making it easier for the manufacturer to maintain his production."
"IN CONSIDERING the heating of radio-frequency cables due to internal causes, there first must be determined the distribution and intensity of the generation of heat caused by the conductor and dielectric losses. Then the diffusion of the heat throughout the cable and its dissipation at the surface are considered in order to determine the resulting temperature rises at various locations in the cable."
"Fourth to be published of a group of papers presented at a winter meeting symposium on education,1–3 this article carries the young engineer into industry. Pointing out management's increasing appreciation of the value of continuing education, the authors discuss industry's responsibility toward the engineer's professional development, a responsibility that is embodied in two words — encouragement and recognition."
"FORTY-FIVE PER CENT of the total operating expense of a railroad is affected directly by the character of the motive power used. Consequently, very careful consideration should be given to the proper selection of this power. From a strictly engineering viewpoint, a locomotive should be purchased as a tool to fit the job."
"An ideal luminous environment for persons doing close visual work, such as in offices and classrooms, requires adequate light with an absence of excess contrast in the visual field. Recent experiments conducted at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology indicate the superiority in this respect of the new luminous ceiling, over the louverall ceiling which is being employed in many recent installations."
"FIVE manufacturers have tested motors rated at 0.5, 5, 10, 25, and 50 horsepower for temperature rise on an exchange motor test program at the request of the AIEE committee on rotating machinery. The purpose was to determine the relation between the internal hot-spot temperature rise and the temperature rise measured by the resistance method, thermometer method, and surface thermocouple method. These relations were determined for both continuous-load heat runs and for short-time heat runs. The motors tested were all general-purpose, open 40 degree centigrade, 1,750-rpm motors."
"A NEW-TYPE anemometer has been developed which allows velocities as low as five feet per minute to be determined as accurately as the higher velocities. It operates by placing a heated thermopile in an air stream whose velocity is to be measured. The flow of air past the thermopile tends to bring the thermopile wire, consisting of a succession of thermojunctions, to the same temperature throughout. The thermal differences between these junctions induce a thermal direct voltage which is proportional to the temperature differences. Thus, flow of air past the thermopile tends to reduce this temperature difference and therefore, to reduce the direct voltage generated by the thermopile."
"This system features pulse amplitude modulation with a filtering arrangement for minimizing the required transmission band width. A discussion of the channelizing, synchronizing, transmission equipment, and system performance data is included in the article."
"THE MAGNITUDE and duration of the voltage dip during sudden application of load to an a-c generator under regulator action often is required to determine disturbance to other equipment on the system. Point-by-point methods, although accurate, require considerable time to apply. An analytical solution has been used covering machines with self-excited exciters operating below appreciable saturation. The first few cycles generally were disregarded as this permits neglecting the effect of dampers and sub transient voltage drop."
"IN RECENT YEARS, the term “effective band width” has been used so frequently in the literature that it appears desirable to distinguish it from the more familiar band-width concept employed to specify the frequency discriminating properties of selective networks."
"The coil shops of the Western Electric Company have incorporated an over-all program for solving their inspection problems. Since their production includes various types of coils with many characteristics and requirements, different routines varying from little inspection to very detailed inspection are used."
"THE ELECTRIC transmission equipment used on the three turbine-electric locomotives placed in service in 1948 by the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company is similar in many respects to that used on diesel-electric locomotives of equal power. The differences are principally in the main generators and the control. These differences are due to 6,000 horsepower being supplied by a single prime mover and the difference in fundamental speed and torque performance of a steam turbine as compared to a diesel engine. A comparison of fundamental characteristics, Figure 1, shows that the turbine torque rises rapidly as speed decreases and that its horsepower is much more constant from full speed to “idling” speed. In the case of diesel-electric, considerable development of generator control devices has been necessary to prevent overloading."
"THE IMPEDANCE of an iron-core reactor can be varied by introducing a magnetic bias whose magnitude is controlled by a direct current in a separate control winding. Such d-c controlled reactors commonly are called saturable reactors or magnetic amplifiers."
"Characteristics of locomotive electric equipment were thought to be well established, but development of self-propelled electric locomotives has introduced new concepts. Design improvements have reduced equipment size, improved reliability, and promoted a degree of standardization heretofore thought impractical. Electric motive power leads the way toward improved rail transportation."
"THE DEMAND for more accurate measurements of power levels, as well as the increasing interest in the frequency characteristic of voice and carrier channels, filters, high-fidelity amplifiers, and so on, has created the need for an instrument to record these measurements quickly and accurately."
"The mechanism of electrical failures at power frequency is fairly well established and accepted. An analysis of the process helps to correlate the observed performance of cable insulation and to explain the underlying characteristics of the different types. It appears, as discussed in this article, that dielectric failures of any solid or quasi-solid body are of the same general character."
"High-voltage cable insulation is a very heterogeneous dielectric; alternate layers of oil and paper with paper tapes varying in thickness. These factors when combined with the geometry of the cable and the thermal effects of variable load cycles make the mechanism of dielectric breakdown very complex. To bring out various views by experts in this field the AIEE Insulated Conductor Committee has arranged the following discussions."
"POWER RECTIFIERS of the mercury-pool type must be provided with protection against both overloads and short circuits external to the unit and arc-backs within the unit. Overloads exceeding rated values may occur as the result of unusual conditions in the load circuit, outage of parallel units supplying a common load, or service requirements in excess of installed capacity. In any case, the operation of the rectifier on overload is the same as at rated loads except that the commutating angle increases with increasing load current. This increases the conducting period of the tubes, modifies the anode current and voltage waves, and so changes the duty on the tubes. It also causes the output voltage of the rectifier to drop as the load current is increased."
"By using only the median and the shortest life in statistical analysis, the time required to predict performance from a test is accelerated. This article describes how the method was used successfully for saving time in testing life of incandescent lamps; however, this method is just as applicable to many other products."
"A NUMBER of modes of circuit action may be obtained during faults on power rectifiers because of the variety of fault conditions and circuit parameters. Extensive tests have been made on a 6-phase 200-kw 300-volt sealed ignitron rectifier in which calculated and test values of fault currents are in good agreement."
"SYNCHRONOUS TIE is the name given to a system of two identical induction machines with stators supplied from a common polyphase line and with rotors interconnected. A rotation impressed on one of the shafts causes a corresponding motion of the second shaft, as if there were a mechanical coupling of some sort. Thus the tie finds uses as a remote indicating or positioning device, and also in applications where considerable power interchanges are required between two distant shafts in continuous synchronized rotation."
"Electrically heated blankets are judged to be safe from hazards of electric shock and overtemperature if they pass standard tests for current leakage, dielectric strength, and normal and abnormal overheating. Design considerations which affect performance on these tests include the construction of the blanket wired structure, the power rating of the blanket, the type of overtemperature protection used, and the fail-safe characteristics of that protection."
"These are authors' digests of most of the papers presented at the second AIEE Conference on Electrical Engineering Problems in the Rubber and Plastics Industries, Akron, Ohio, April 26, 1949. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings. However, they will be made available as a consolidated booklet at $3 per copy ($1.50 to AIEE members). Advance orders should be sent to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"This is the 65th year of our Institute. Our Founders opened a door and electrical engineers have advanced electricity into every available avenue for the service of mankind."
"A highly successful AIEE Conference on Electrical Engineering Problems in the Rubber and Plastics Industries attended by some 191 technical specialists was held on Tuesday, April 26, 1949, at the Hotel Portage in Akron, Ohio. Seventh in the series of AIEE technical conferences, this was the second covering the field of rubber and plastics electrical problems. As before, the conference was sponsored by the AIEE Subcommittee on Rubber and Plastics Industries of the AIEE Committee on General Industry Applications, and the Akron Section of AIEE acted as host to the conference."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The first gas turbine-electric locomotive to be built and operated in the United States, a 4,500-horsepower unit, has completed preliminary road tests, and will see freight service with the Union Pacific Railroad, beginning this summer. Engineered jointly by the American Locomotive Company and the General Electric Company, the new locomotive is the product of five years' research."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"In any course presenting basic theory, an important problem facing the instructor is the choice of illustrations which will stimulate student interest. In this article, which was presented at one of the General Winter Meeting's educational sessions, the author explores the field of power electronics as an educational medium in the teaching of engineering."
"Topography and climate have proved large factors in the planning of generation and transmission facilities for the Pacific Gas and Electric Company. Steam and hydroelectric generating capacity is being increased 1,300,000 kw; 1,400 miles of new 230-kv transmission lines are to be added to provide improved service to a 90,000-square-mile area."
"Performance testing of small motors can be done on this recently designed test board with greater accuracy. This article describes the development, construction, and operation of this board which requires less effort for testing and provides a greater saving in time."
"Written primarily for the Student membership and the younger members, this article presents a picture of registration as it affects the engineer today, as well as how it is likely to affect him in the future. It reviews the requirements necessary for registration as an engineer and indicates some of the procedures involved in attaining such certification."
"Amplifications of 10 to the 12th power have been obtained in one stage of the amplistat in the laboratories of the General Electric Company. This amplifier also has advantages of long life, no starting delay, no moving parts, and is very sturdy and quiet in operation. A description of the operation of the amplistat, diagrams of the circuits, and its advantages and limitations are given in this article."
"Vladimir Kosma Zworykin (F '45), Vice-President and Technical Consultant, Radio Corporation of America, RCA Laboratories Division, Princeton, N. J., has been honored as Lamme Medalist for 1948 for “his outstanding contribution to the concept and design of electronic apparatus basic to modern television.” The Lamme Medal, which has been awarded annually since 1928 by bequest of Benjamin Garver Lamme, was presented to Mr. Zworykin on June 22, 1949, at a general session of the AIEE Summer General Meeting held in Swampscott, Mass., June 20–24."
"DR. ZWORYKIN came to the United States from across the seas in 1919. Five years later — the required minimum established by our government — he became an American citizen. He landed in this country with small financial assets, but with exceptional knowledge, energy, and attributes — all of which he placed at the disposal of his adopted land. His great love was television, and he worked tirelessly toward the goal of an all-electronic system that some day would prove to be the world's greatest means of mass communication, education, and entertainment."
"THE PRESENTATION of the Lamme Medal in recognition of my efforts in the development of television does me a great honor. I appreciate it all the more since some of my earlier efforts in this field, at the Westinghouse Electric Corporation in Pittsburgh, Pa., coincide with the tenure of Mr. Lamme as Chief Engineer of that corporation. In considering the engineer's role in the progress of science, I shall be mindful of the great contributions made by Mr. Lamme and his generation of able engineers."
"THE CHART of Figure 1 was prepared through the efforts of the AIEE Joint Technical Committee on Standard Frequency Bands and Designations. The primary object of the chart is to promote the use of band designation numbers to indicate frequency ranges over the whole useful range of frequencies which occur in nature, thus giving a single co-ordinated system. It will be noted that the band number is the exponent of ten corresponding to the lowest frequency of the band."
"This article presents a detailed description of the electrolytic process used in the production of metallic zinc at the electrolytic zinc plant of the American Smelting and Refining Company at Corpus Christi, Tex. The power division for the entire plant, which represents 35 per cent of the total plant installation cost, also is described."
"These are authors digests' of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE Summer General Meeting, Swampscott, Mass., June 20–24, 1949. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"As your President, I have had a lovely year. I have been privileged to be with the members often, as I have had the outstanding pleasure to visit 50 of our 84 Sections and 7 of our 42 Subsections, covering our 10 Districts, and have had the genuine enjoyment of attending the four General Meetings and the three District Meetings of our Institute held in the past year, which have carried forward the strength of our Institute into the year to come and through which I have had some contact with all of the Sections. I have seen the youth of our profession in 50 of our 129 Student Branches and in our General and District Meetings where I have had some contact with practically every one of our Student Branches, and I can assure you of the continuance of electrical engineering achievement as these young men enter the profession, under-girded by the contributions to their engineering life by the teachers in the engineering schools of our land and by our Student Branch Counsellors who have brought to them a knowledge of our Institute so that they will continue their future engineering lives with us."
"I suppose that each of the 61 men who have been introduced at the annual meetings as president-elect have experienced emotions similar to mine. They have been proud of this organization — of what it has accomplished and of what it represents. They have appreciated what it has meant to them and welcomed the larger opportunity for service which the office of president afforded them. They recognized that the members have bestowed on them the greatest honor which is theirs to give. Having served on the Board of Directors, they realized there is some work, as well as honor, involved in being president. They may have suspected that one year is all too short a time to accomplish even a fraction of the things they would like to do, but they accepted that as a challenge. They were optimistic and a little humble. They promised to do their best, they asked for your help, and they thanked you — all of which I do."
"The 65th Summer General Meeting of the Institute, which was held in Swampscott, Mass., with headquarters in the New Ocean House, June 20–24, 1949, was highly successful. The success of the meeting may be attributed to a combination of factors: the broad technical program of 30 sessions and conferences covering practically the whole range of Institute technical activities; 50 committee meetings, in addition to an allday meeting of the Board of Directors; several Section Delegates Conferences; and the Annual Meeting. Affairs were well organized, and smoothly conducted by the Summer General Meeting Committee which provided an excellent program of inspection trips, entertainment, and a special program for the visiting ladies. The total attendance of 1,650 established an all-time record for Summer General Meetings, and exceeded the number which attended the Montreal meeting two years ago by 13.7 per cent."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Electrical utility systems are likely to add between 40,000 and 55,000 employees during the next decade, according to a United States Department of Labor report, an account of which appeared in the Labor Information Bulletin, Tune 1949."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of Interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"CAN ENGINEERS be synchronized? Can they be persuaded to pull together, to co-operate, to pool their talents and resources in an orderly, organized effort to attain common objectives outside their several fields of specialized technology? In spite of appearances and experience to the contrary, many of us believe they can be so persuaded, and because we believe, we persist in our endeavor to find the right formula and to supply the requisite leadership. Those of us who participated in the discussions held at Section, District, and general meetings of the Institute some three years ago were tremendously encouraged by the interest and response of our own Institute members and by their evident willingness to relinquish some of the Institute's autonomy for the sake of forming an over-all organization of the engineering profession."
"Controlled from remote stations, this new digital computer of the relay type reduces punched-tape instructions to a minimum. With novel control features similar to those used in recent automatic dial-telephone developments, this “upper-class” computer possesses six “intelligence levels.” Subordinate levels are capable of solving problems such as complex-number multiplication without special guidance."
"IN AN A-C series motor, the flux pulsation in the field is predominantly at line frequency. The field iron loss can be computed easily and represented by a loss component in the magnetizing current. However, due to the rotation of the armature, the gap flux is rotating relative to the armature, as well as pulsating. The armature iron loss depends on both the line frequency and the speed. Part of the iron loss is supplied electrically by a loss component in the magnetizing current, while the remaining part is supplied mechanically as a load on the shaft. The accurate calculation of motor performance is dependent upon the correct determination and also the correct allocation of these losses."
"THE General Electric Company and the Central Electric Cooperative, Inc., at Parkers Landing, Pa., conducted an investigation on 7,200-volt multigrounded rural systems during the period from 1944 through 1947. All lightning measurements were made on one extensive feeder with approximately 465 miles of line and 1,350 distribution transformers protected by expulsion arresters."
"ONE SOMETIMES HEARS the statement that the electric machinery field is so well established that relatively few opportunities exist for further investigations and developments. Nothing could be further from the truth. In the electric motor business alone, many problems appear which are not solved rigorously but are by-passed by estimates based on experienced judgment; or they are solved by empirical data in use in design offices, but not generally available in the literature. In either case, further study is justified."
"Electrical engineers at the company where I work tell me that one coil acts inductively on another if some of the magnetic lines which link the first coil also link the second coil, and they tell me that if there are no magnetic lines which link both coils, then there cannot be any mutual induction between the coils."
"DURING 1941, a 7-mile circuit of 120-kv high-pressure gas-filled pipe-type cable known as the SMD-type cable was installed by The Detroit Edison Company, and has been in satisfactory operation since it was energized on December 31, 1941. An impregnating compound of much higher viscosity than that normally used in the mass-impregnation of cables was employed, and, at the time, preimpregnation of the tapes seemed to be the only method of assuring satisfactory impregnation throughout the wall of insulation."
"OF GROWING importance to facsimile engineers is the problem of increasing the transmission speed. The speed may be increased by using special scanning methods, improving means for modulation and demodulation, using the available channel more efficiently, and using wider transmission channels."
"The use of charts to reduce the labor in solving problems involving high-frequency transmission lines and wave guides has increased considerably. This article presents details of the development and problems illustrating applications of the two most commonly used types of charts. It was written primarily for students and practicing engineers who use the charts without knowing the background."
"IN THE past few years, small 2-phase induction motors have become quite popular for use as servomotors in control systems where relatively small torques are required."
"THE SHADED-POLE induction motor traditionally has been built but not designed. In the present state of the art, it is more practical to build a series of trial motors with modifications to produce the desired characteristics than to design one meticulously and still miss those characteristics. This article is intended to show some of the causes of failure of the usual design procedures. The results are qualitative only, but it is hoped that they will aid designers quantitatively through the use of presently known design constants which have been obtained from experience with their own motors."
"Research, today, is a complicated process, entailing the services of an entire series of specialists. Assuming that a given company can justify the cost of a research department, the author goes on to examine some of the shortcomings and possibilities of industrial research and development work."
"THE 3,000-horsepower gas turbine power plant described herein has a turbine which is divided into two parts: one drives the compressor and the second drives the load."
"DUST COSTS industry billions of dollars annually in spoilage, maintenance, and cleaning bills. Few industries are more familiar with this fact than the textile industry, where spoilage caused by dirt long has been recognized as a major problem."
"A new type of signaling system1 has been developed for mobile radiotelephone service in the Bell System. The basic selection of this system is performed by the use of vibrating reed selectors as described in this article."
"ALL OF the functions of an electron tube when used as an amplifier, modulator, frequency doubler, or rectifier, can be formulated in terms of a plate-current-grid-voltage (i-e) characteristic expressed as the sum of constant, linear, and square terms in e. The characteristics of actual tubes often have such parabolic regions, which can be identified easily on a transconductance-grid-voltage (g-e) characteristic by observing that the part corresponding to the parabola on an i-e characteristic is a straight line on a g-e characteristic."
"Low-reactance powerhouse equipment would increase costs for the McNary Dam installation by $3,200,000. Combining cost analysis with network analyzer studies, however, showed that this increase would be more than offset by transmission-line savings. Over-all savings of $7,000,000 are estimated."
"MAGNETIC recording is the process of transforming electric impulses, varying with time, from an electric circuit to a succession of fixed magnetic fields, varying with distance, along a filament of ferromagnetic material. The magnetic-field space variations are closely proportional to the time variation of the original electric impulses for good recording. The transformation of electric impulses to variations in magnetic field along a wire or tape is accomplished by passing the ferromagnetic wire or tape across an air gap in the iron core of an electromagnet energized by current impulses passing through the coil of the electromagnet. Passing the magnetized wire or tape across the air gap of a similar electromagnet causes a voltage to appear across the terminals of the coil of this second electromagnet. The first electromagnet, used for impressing the electric impulses upon the magnetic recording medium, is called the recording head. The second electromagnet referred to, used for retranslating the stored magnetic impulses into electric impulses, is called the playback head."
"NETWORK ANALYZER STUDIES of power-flow conditions on large interconnected systems frequently require preliminary simplification and reduction of the network because of the limited number of analyzer circuits and sources available. Even in smaller systems which do not exceed the capacity of the analyzer being used, it is sometimes desirable to represent in detail only a portion of the system, simplifying the remainder by use of equivalent circuits for the purpose of speeding up studies on the portion of primary interest. Simple equivalent circuits can be devised for extensive power networks by adopting the viewpoint that in power-flow studies the system generation and loads approach, as an approximation, constant-current quantities. The network being simplified may contain numerous loads and generators, but the equivalent circuit derived by this method retains the identity of only the tie-line terminals or points of interconnection with the detailed setup. The line network of the reduced system is replaced by an equivalent mesh network between retained tie-line terminals. If m is the number of such terminals, this mesh network in general will consist of m (m — 1)/2 branches. The effects of the suppressed generators and loads are reproduced by an equivalent generator or load at each tie-line terminal. An equivalent circuit of this type can be derived for a given system either by analytical methods or by simple tests on an analyzer setup of the complete network which is to be reduced. The equivalent circuit is flexible in that any schedule of internal generation and loads can be reproduced readily without the necessity of repeating the reduction or of making additional tests."
"An instrument is described for use on the terminals of a telephone to provide a subscriber with a printed record of the telephone numbers of callers who have telephoned during his absence. The instrument is simple to install and operate, and is considerably less complex and costly than an automatic spoken-message recorder."
"These are authors' digests of some of the papers presented at the two special AIEE technical conferences on electrical engineering problems in the textile industry that were held in Boston, Mass., May 3, 1949; and at Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Ga., May 27–28, 1949. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions, or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The following sections list the names and scopes of the various AIEE technical committees. In accordance with the revised committee structure set in motion by the Board of Directors at a meeting in Worcester, Mass., April 23, 1947 (EE, Jun '47, pp 597–8), and approved as latest list of committee functions by the Board of Directors at their meeting in Swampscott, Mass., June 23, 1949, these committees are organized under the following groups: Communication; General Applications; Industry; Power; and Science and Electronics."
"Plans for the AIEE Fall General Meeting (formerly known as the AIEE Midwest General Meeting) which is to be held at the Netherland Plaza Hotel in Cincinnati, Ohio, October 17–21, 1949, are fast materializing. Besides an outstanding technical program, the meeting committee is hard at work planning for the entertainment and comfort of all visitors."
"The following constitute the new rules for the award of prizes for AIEE technical papers as approved by the AIEE Board of Directors at their annual meeting on June 23, 1949, during the AIEE Summer General Meeting in Swampscott, Mass."
"Electrical engineering problems in the textile industry was the subject of two AIEE technical conferences held last May. The first took place in Boston, Mass., at the Hotel Kenmore, May 3,1949, and the second in Atlanta, Ga., at the Young Men's Christian Association auditorium of the Georgia Institute of Technology, May 27–28, 1949. These gatherings represented two more conferences in the series of ten held since the special AIEE conference type of meeting was started in 1948 (EE, Feb '48, p 189). This type of meeting is designed to explore thoroughly a limited field and to afford specialists in that field an opportunity to discuss mutual technical problems."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"At the 22 formal technical sessions and the several informal sessions and round-table discussions held during the 1949 annual meeting of the American Society for Testing Materials in Atlantic City, N. J., early last summer, upward of 185 papers and reports were presented. This was the 52d annual meeting of the society. The total registration, 1,857, was the second highest in the society's history, being exceeded only by the 1944 New York meeting."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish at many letters as possible. Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirety. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This paper describes a basic circuit for reactance tube modulation of phase shift oscillators. The design of suitable phase shift oscillators for frequencies from audio through the ultra-high frequencies is discussed. Experimental performance data derived from several types of frequency modulated phase shift oscillators are presented."
"Measurements of the microwave noise power available from gaseous discharges, such as in an ordinary fluorescent lamp, show remarkable uniformity and stability. Such tubes are therefore suitable for a new type of standard noise source."
"This paper reports the results of some measurements of the electronic admittances of close-spaced parallel-plane diodes and “1553” triodes at a frequency of 4060 megacycles. These results reveal that the diode admittance and the input short-circuit admittance of the triode depart considerably from the values predicted by single-velocity theory. The triode transadmittance, however, is only slightly lower in magnitude than the low-frequency value."
"Measurements have been made of the passive, four-pole admittances of parallel-plane triodes over a wide range of cathode-to-grid and grid-to-plate spacings at a frequency of 4060 megacycles. Results are given for a parallel wire grid and a cross-lateral grid. The microwave transadmittances are found to be much higher than the values measured at low frequencies."
"THE problems of cryptography and secrecy systems furnish an interesting application of communication theory.1 In this paper a theory of secrecy systems is developed. The approach is on a theoretical level and is intended to complement the treatment found in standard works on cryptography.2 There, a detailed study is made of the many standard types of codes and ciphers, and of the ways of breaking them. We will be more concerned with the general mathematical structure and properties of secrecy systems."
"This paper describes a systematic method of approximating with a finite number of network elements a transfer characteristic which is a prescribed function of frequency, rather than a constant, over the useful frequency band. Although applied here only to input and output coupling networks as reactive equalizers and where loss equalization to an extremely high degree of precision over a wide frequency band is desired, the mathematical expressions which form the basis for the design are applicable to any 4-terminal network whose transfer characteristic is specified in a similar manner over the real frequency range."
"Testing Cathode Materials in Factory Production.1 J. T. ACKER. The paper deals with the methods of testing radio-tube cathode materials in factory production, and especially with a comparison of several specific lots of materials of variable content. It is believed that this is the first time the electron-tube industry has made mass tests on a well-controlled engineering basis of cathode materials which vary in single component elements."
"With the rapid expansion of broad-band carrier telephone systems throughout the country, the use of these facilities for program transmission has become desirable. This paper describes a carrier program system capable of transmitting a band up to about 8000 cycles wide."
"This paper describes the equalization of delay in 8-kc program systems transmitted over broad-band carrier telephone facilities. Use is made of a condenser-plate potential analog which provides a ready method for blocking out the basic design and arriving at the final equalizer constants. Most of the equalization is accomplished at audio frequencies, and the remainder at carrier frequencies with quartz-crystal equalizers."
"A paper by Leconte, Penick, Schramm and Wier1 discusses the system aspects of 8-kc program circuits over carrier facilities and outlines the functions of several filters and networks. This paper describes in detail two of the filters and one network. These are: 1. The channel selecting crystal band pass filter used at program terminals of all broad-band carrier systems, 2. The band elimination filter which blocks the program at branching points on type K carrier systems, 3. The network used at branching points on type K carrier systems to simulate the phase shift of the band elimination filter."
"THE evolution of transmission networks for communications systems progresses through three fairly well-defined phases — design, synthesis and final adjustment. The design phase ordinarily involves no problem of measurement. In the synthesis stage, during which the physical model is constructed from the paper design, precise equipment is often needed for measuring the magnitude of the various components comprising the network. The adjustment stage, in which the network is actually tested as an element in a transmission circuit, generally requires the most complex instrumentation. In the latter category we may include insertion loss, gain, and phase measurement systems."
"The transitor in the form described herein consists of two-point contact electrodes, called emitter and collector, placed in close proximity on the upper face of a small block of germanium. The base electrode, the third element of the triode, is a large area low resistance contact on the lower face. Each point contact has characteristics similar to those of the high-back-voltage rectifier. When suitable d-c. bias potentials are applied, the device may be used to amplify a-c. signals. A signal introduced between the emitter and base appears in amplified form between collector and base. The emitter is biased in the positive direction, which is that of easy flow. A larger negative or reverse voltage is applied to the collector. Transistor action depends on the fact that electrons in semi-conductors can carry current in two different ways: by excess or conduction electrons and by defect “electrons” or holes. The germanium used is n-type, i.e. the carriers are conduction electrons. Current from the emitter is composed in large part of holes, i.e. of carriers of opposite sign to those normally in excess in the body of the block. The holes are attracted by the field of the collector current, so that a large part of the emitter current, introduced at low impedance, flows into the collector circuit and through a high-impedance load. There is a voltage gain and a power gain of an input signal. There may be current amplification as well. The influence of the emitter current, Ie, on collector current, Ie, is expressed in terms of a current multiplication factor, α, which gives the rate of change of Ie with respect to Ie at constant collector voltage. Values of α in typical units range from about 1 to 3. It is shown in a general way how α depends on bias voltages, frequency, temperature, and electrode spacing. There is an influence of collector current on emitter current in the nature of a positive feedback which, under some operating conditions, may lead to instability. The way the concentrations and mobilities of electrons and holes in germanium depend on impurities and on temperature is described briefly. The theory of germanium point contact rectifiers is discussed in terms of the Mott-Schottky theory. The barrier layer is such as to raise the levels of the filled band to a position close to the Fermi level at the surface, giving an inversion layer of p-type or defect conductivity. There is considerable evidence that the barrier layer is intrinsic and occurs at the free surface, independent of a metal contact. Potential probe tests on some surfaces indicate considerable surface conductivity which is attributed to the p-type layer. All surfaces tested show an excess conductivity in the vicinity of the point contact which increases with forward current and is attributed to a flow of holes into the body of the germanium, the space charge of the holes being compensated by electrons. It is shown why such a flow is to be expected for the type of barrier layer which exists in germanium, and that this flow accounts for the large currents observed in the forward direction. In the transistor, holes may flow from the emitter to the collector either in the surface layer or through the body of the germanium. Estimates are made of the field produced by the collector current, of the transit time for holes, of the space charge produced by holes flowing into the collector, and of the feedback resistance which gives the influence of collector current on emitter current. These calculations confirm tie general picture given of transistor action."
"Results are given of observations of lightning currents, voltages, and charges in a buried cable over most of three lightning seasons. These are compared with theoretical expectations. Data regarding the incidence of lightning strokes to ground, as observed with automatic recording equipment, are also reported, together with comparisons with similar data published previously."
"VACUUM tubes with close spacing between electrodes have become of increasing importance in recent years. The higher transconductances and lower electron transit times thus obtained combine with other features to raise both the frequency and band width at which the tube may operate satisfactorily as an amplifier. Specific designs have been discussed in papers by E. D. McArthur and E. F. Peterson1, and by Fremlin, Hall and Shatford2. The important contributions to structural technique made by E. V. Neher have been described in the Radiation Laboratory Series3, Further important advances in the art have been recently announced by J. A. Morton and R. M. Ryder of the Bell Laboratories at the recent I.R.E. Electronics Conference held at Cornell University in June, 1948. The material of the present paper represents work done by the authors over a decade ago, and naturally there has been considerable publication on related topics in the intervening years. It has been suggested by our colleagues, however, that some of the results are not available in the technical literature and are of sufficient utility to warrant a belated publication. These results have to do with the variation of the electric intensity, amplification factor, and current density which takes place along the cathode surface because of the nearby grid wires."
"QUANTITATIVE evaluation of electron tube performance has assumed added importance with the increasing extension of electronics into the fields of measurement and control. Simplification of the process of selection of suitable tube types and operating conditions from the general data available is of considerable value to all engineers concerned with electronics circuit design. The conventional procedure involves analysis of the plate current-grid voltage characteristics. The simpler method presented herein supplies the same information from an analysis of the transconductance-grid voltage characteristics. These are usually supplied by the manufacturer or can be obtained readily by measurement1."
"Administration of a Sampling Inspection Plan.1 H. F. DODGE, Greatly expanded production during the war brought about extensive use of scientific sampling plans both within manufacturing plants and by procurement agencies. Perhaps most widely used were standard plans involving single sampling, double sampling, and multiple sampling for visual and gaging inspections on a go no-go basis. This paper discusses how a manufacturer may make use of these sampling plans in a manufacturing plant, how he goes about deciding on suitable levels of quality expressed in per cent defective, how he determnes whether sampling can be used advantageously in place of 100% inspection, and how he can choose and administer sampling plans that will limit the risks of sampling as well as provide the desired protection with a minimum amount of inspection. Particular attention is given to the operating characteristics and the mode of application of the standard AOQL (average outgoing quality limit) sampling plans published by Dodge and Romig."
"TE01 waves transmitted through curve wave guides lose power by conversion to other modes, especially to TM11. This power transfer to coupled modes is explained by the theory of coupled transmission lines. It is shown that the power interchange between coupled lines and their propagation constants can be derived from a single coupling discriminant. Earlier calculations of TE01 conversion loss in circular wave guide bends are confirmed and extended to S-shaped bends. Tolerance limits for random deflections from an average straight course are given."
"This paper describes a new amplifier in which use is made of an electron flow consisting of two streams of electrons having different average velocities. When the currents or charge densities of tie two streams are sufficient, the streams interact to give an increasing wave. Conditions for an increasing wave and the gain of the increasing wave are evaluated for a particular geometry of flow."
"The construction and performance of an amplifier employing the interaction between two streams of electrons having different average velocities are described. Gain of 33 db at a center frequency of 255 Mc has been observed with bandwidth of 110 Mc between 3 db points."
"THE theory of switching circuits may be divided into two major divisions, analysis and synthesis. The problem of analysis, determining the manner of operation of a given switching circuit, is comparatively simple. The inverse problem of finding a circuit satisfying certain given operating conditions, and in particular the best circuit is, in general, more difficult and more important from the practical standpoint. A basic part of the general synthesis problem is the design of a two-terminal network with given operating characteristics, and we shall consider some aspects of this problem."
"A method of measuring microwave phase differences is described in which it is unnecessary to compensate for amplitude inequalities between the signals whose phases are being compared. The apparatus described is also suited for the measurement of the magnitude of a transfer impedance as well as the phase."
"A conformal transformation method is used to obtain approximate expressions for the reflection coefficients of sharp comers in rectangular wave guides. The transformation carries the bent guide over into a straight guide filled with a nonuniform medium. The reflection coefficient of the transformed system can be expressed in terms of the solution of an integral equation which may be solved approximately by successive substitutions. When the corner angle is small and the corner is not truncated the required integrations may be performed and an explicit expression obtained for the reflection coefficient. Although applied here only to corners, the method has an additional interest in that it is applicable to other types of irregularities in rectangular wave guides."
"In dealing with corners and similar irregularities in rectangular wave guides it is sometimes helpful to transform the system, conformally, into a straight guide. Propagation in the straight guide may then be studied by an integral equation method, as is done in a companion paper, or by a more general method based upon a certain set of ordinary differential equations. Here the second method is developed and applied to determine the reflection produced at the junction of a straight guide and a sectoral horn — a problem the first method is unable to handle. The WKB approximation for a single second-order differential equation is extended to a set of equations and approximate expressions for the reflection coefficient are derived."
"Pulse Echo Measurements on Telephone and Television Facilities.1 L. G. ABRAHAM, A. W. LEBERT, J. B. MAGGIO, and J. T. SCHOTT. Pulse echo measurements have been used on telephone and television facilities since 1940 to locate impedance irregularities and control quality in manufacture and installation. These sets send a pulse into a line and observe on an oscilloscope the echoes returned from irregularities. The shape and width of the pulse, the rate at which it is repeated and the pulse magnitude are important in determining the accuracy of the results and the requirements of the measuring apparatus. The “coaxial pulse echo set” is used for factory and field testing of coaxial cables. The “Lookator” was developed for use on much narrower band systems such as spiral-four field cable and open wire lines."
"ALL but one of the papers that comprise this issue discuss practical aplications of semiconductors and touch upon their properties as employed in rectifying devices, detectors, and in a new amplifying unit — the so-called transistor. These semiconductor papers all relate to one another and present, as a whole, a current but well developed account of the behavior and uses of these very promising additions to today's vast array of electrical applicances."
"Holes injected by an emitter point into thin single-crystal filaments of germanium can be detected by collector points. From studies of transient phenomena the drift velocity and lifetimes (as long as 140 microseconds) can be directly observed and the mobility measured. Hole concentrations and hole currents are measured in terms of the modulation of the conductivity produced by their presence. Filamentary transistors utilizing this modulation of conductivity are described."
"THE purpose of this note is to discuss in a general way some circuit aspects of the transistor. It is rather interesting that in order to discuss its circuit aspects, little direct reference to the transistor is necessary. One needs only certain properties of the transistor which are empirically obtainable by measurement; these properties then determine behavior in the manner prescribed by the methods of general network theory. In principle, one needs no knowledge of the physics of the transistor in order to treat it circuitwise; any “black box” with the same electrical behavior at its terminals would act the same way."
"An analysis is given of the transient behavior of the density of holes nh in an excess semiconductor as a function of lime t and of position x with respect to the electrode from which they are being injected. When the geometry is one-dimensional, an exact solution for the function nh(x, t) can he constructed, provided certain simplifying assumptions are fulfilled, of which the most important are that there be no appreciate trapping of holes or electrons and that diffusion be negligible. An attempt is made to estimate the range of conditions over which the neglect of diffusion will be justified. A few applications of the theory to possible experiments are discussed."
"THE a-c. impedance of the rectifying contact between a metal and a semiconductor is measured by superimposing a small a-c. current on a d-c. bias current. It is generally recognized1 that an equivalent circuit consists of a parallel resistance and capacitance in series with a resistance as shown in Fig. 1. The parallel components represent the impedance of the barrier layer itself and depend on the d-c. bias current flowing. The series resistance is that of the body of the semiconductor. It has been shown theoretically by Spenke2 that under quite general conditions the parallel capacitance and resistance are independent of frequency. Unfortunately Spenke's proof is highly mathematical and is also not readily available. The derivation of the impedance relations which is presented here is in some ways more general and gives more physical insight into the problem."
"In a single crystal of semiconductor the impurity concentration may vary from p-type to n-type producing a mechanically continuous rectifying junction. The theory of potential distribution and rectification for p-n junctions is developed with emphasis on germanium. The currents across the junction are carried by the diffusion of holes in n-type material and electrons in p-type material, resulting in an admittance for a simple case varying as (1 + iωτp)1/2 where τp is the lifetime of a hole in the n-region. Contact potentials across p-n junctions, carrying no current, may develop when hole or electron injection occurs. The principles and theory of a p-n-p transistor are described."
"In modern communication theory band width plays an important role as a transmission parameter. The authors discuss the significance of signal hand width and frequency occupancy in relation to other transmission factors such as power, noise, interference, and overall performance for certain specific multiplex systems under assumed operating conditions. The intent of the paper is to show how such problems may be attacked rather than to find an unequivocally best system. The scope of the paper is described by the following table of Headings and Captions."
"The Transistor — A New Semiconductor Amplifier.1 J. A. BECKER and J. N. SHRIVE. This article describes the construction, characteristics, and behavior of the newly discovered device, the transistor. Used as a semiconductor amplifier, it works on an entirely different principle and is capable of performing the same tasks now done by the vacuum tube triode."
"In the following brief summary it is feasible only to outline problems and processes, and primarily to stimulate discussion. Actually the subject matter of this short commentary would require, for adequate treatment, a number of large and impressive volumes."
"The use of motion picture films in television has brought with it a variety of problems, both for the producer or the user and for the laboratory making prints for such use. These remarks will be confined to the subject of picture quality on 16-mm films for use in television."
"These Remarks Are Confined for the most part to problems of sound on 16-mm film, since such films are of greatest economic — There are three principal bottlenecks tending to degrade the quality of sound obtained from 16-mm films in television broadcasting."
"The printed material describing this forum mentions industrial, educational, institutional, commercial, and promotional films as well as entertainment films. It implies that they are all frequently used for television programming. Actually, however, straight industrial or institutional films are so unadaptable and so specialized that in the author's opinion they can be safely ignored as a factor in television programming. In order to clarify and simplify things a little, the films covered in this paper are primarily entertainment films—the type of films sought when building a television program to sell goods for a sponsor."
"People in the advertising business are convinced that the amount of film used for television commercials will be determined largely by the way film does its job. Any commercial is supposed to sell goods, and to sell goods over television, many of the same things are done that sell goods over the counter or from door to door or over a desk. As many contacts as possible are made with prospects. They must be interested in what a product can do for their welfare. Show them the product. Demonstrate the way it works. And if possible, try to make friends while doing this."
"In connection with a theater television demonstration of an instantaneous theater television projection system, a chronological record of the early development and current progress of theater television is presented. References are made to both instantaneous projection and the kinescope-photography methods. The demonstration consisted of the projection by theater television of lantern slides for the paper, live action, and film reproduction fed from the anteroom of the auditorium together with broadcast television programs received by radio transmission and telephone circuits from a near-by television station."
"Scanning an opaque subject or photographic transparency with a moving spot of light found application in the early days of television. A modern version, using a short-persistence cathode-ray tube as the light source, can produce television pictures of excellent quality. Equipment restricted to pickup of transparencies can be of simple and reliable design. A motor-driven slide-changing mechanism accommodating as many as twenty-five 2- by 2-inch glass slides is described. Esthetic transitions possible include automatic picture fading preceding and following the slide change as well as unblanked changes to give the effect of instantaneous change-over. Artistic effects, particularly adapted to the flying-spot device, extend its flexibility."
"In commercial motion picture production, there is often a need for both 35-mm and 16-mm color prints. In this field color serves the purpose of product identification, and therefore a three-color system is required. In the specific work described here, locations were widespread and demanded specific dates for shooting. Therefore, several cameramen had to cover location assignments almost simultaneously and available 35-mm professional photographic equipment had to be used. How both 35-mm and 16-mm color release prints were quickly processed from one three-color original is described."
"By reflecting light from the back surface of the light-valve ribbons and focusing the ribbon edges at the film plane a bilateral or unilateral type of direct-positive variable-area track is obtained. By relocating the recording lamp so that light is transmitted through the space between the ribbons a normal variable-area negative may be obtained."
"A new low-cost portable sound-recording system suitable for recording a standard variable-density sound track on 35-mm or 16-mm film in synchronism with a motion picture film is described. The basic system includes a two-channel mixer, a main amplifier including associated noise-reduction circuits, a compact recorder, and a power unit for operating the entire system from a 115-volt, alternating-current supply. An optional inverter providing for operation from 96-volt batteries and an alternating-and direct-current multiduty motor-control unit are also available. The various circuit facilities and the performance of the components and system with respect to sensitivity, signal-to-noise ratio, harmonic distortion, and flutter are discussed in detail. The mechanical and electrical design of the equipment make possible a high-quality sound product for both speech and music recordings, the performance specifications being consistent with the requirements and standards of major Hollywood studios."
"An ion exchange system has been developed to purify photographic wash water and allow its re-use. The effluent from a print-washing machine is cycled through a cation and then an anion exchange resin bed, and returned to the machine. The purity of the water obtained approaches that of distilled water. — This unit was developed for the United States Signal Corps, to be used in mobile photographic units, and is designed to reduce the amount of water required for print-washing. This process is applicable not only to circumstances where water is scarce, but also to processes where wash-water purity and temperature control are important, as in color photography."
"The presently accepted type of film-storage vaults and the standards governing their use are reviewed. The discussion is made in terms of vent area per film load and the resulting pressures; horizontal versus vertical arrangement of film cans; open rack, shelf, and cabinet storage; units of risk for material of high subject-matter values; air conditioning; and related problems. Special mention is made of an insulating retractor belt for shelf storage."
"During the Years 1944, 1945, and 1946, the Theater Television Committee of the SMPE worked on many of the various engineering problems related to placing television in the motion picture theater. Considerable time and effort were expended in collecting information on such subjects as existing theater architecture, available projection equipment, picture quality to be expected, and many other problems which would be of interest to the motion picture industry if it intended to use this new medium. Also during these years, Paul J. Larsen, together with other representatives of the Society, appeared before the Federal Communications Commission and succeeded in obtaining for the motion picture industry frequency allocations for theater-television use on an experimental basis only."
"The Research Council small camera crane was designed from requirements and specifications set down by the Council's Photographic Committee. While similar in principle to other cranes, it embodies an entirely new design and built-in safety features. The crane dolly is electrically driven. The boom arm is manually operated and can be panned through 360 degrees. The crane is large enough to have a lens height of from 2 to 10 feet from floor level and small enough so that, fully equipped, it will pass through a doorway 6 feet high and 36 inches wide."
"This paper reports an extension of the theory and methods of stereophonic recording and reproduction, as particularly applicable to motion pictures. Microphone technique becomes very different from that previously used because of the manner of staging, the use of varied angles of view by the camera, and a fixed theater picture size. Typical microphone technique is illustrated and re-recording with added sound effects is described. Resulting conclusions and observations establish a good foundation for further work in this field."
"A single-element unidirectional microphone has been developed for use in sound motion picture recording with the following characteristics: single-ribbon type; the back of the ribbon is coupled to a damped folded pipe and an acoustical impedance in the form of an aperture; improved cardioid directional pattern; greater output; reduced weight; and reduced wind-noise response."
"Superior performance of new 16-mm film phonograph designed for the motion picture industry permits its use as a standard to determine the sound quality of 16 mm films and to check performance of 16-mm projectors. — Additional features include a self-contained preamplifier, rewind at accelerated speed, dependable operation, compactness, accessibility for servicing, and attractive styling."
"This paper describes an electronically frequency-modulated oscillator of the resistance-capacitance type which has been developed to facilitate rapid and accurate calibration and testing of flutter-measuring equipment; specifically, of the portable flutter indicator used in theater service work. It supersedes mechanically driven capacitor devices for producing the frequency-modulated 3000-cycle signal used for flutter-indicator calibration. It possesses the advantages of better frequency stability, purer wave form, and absence of spurious output impulses."
"The silent playback and public-address system provides a unique time-saving aid in photographing and recording dialog sequences having musical backgrounds. By means of a music- or speech-modulated 100-kilocycle transmitter, a supersonic-frequency magnetic field is generated throughout the scene area. The magnetic field includes secondary currents in concealed loops worn by the actors. These signals are demodulated in miniature batteryless units and energize small hearing-aid earphones. The earphones may be worn without concealment on distant and medium scenes. On close-ups the earphones are concealed and the sound is coupled to the ear through small plastic tubing camouflaged by make-up. Several types of loops, demodulators, and earphone units meet the varying needs of the scenes to be photographed and recorded. The stage microphone and sound-on-film recording channel is free from 100-kilocycle interference."
"A new completely automatic sound slidefilm system has been devised which operates by virtue of low-frequency tones recorded on the disk along with the program material. The system permits an uninterrupted flow of sound without audible gongs or bells. It is positive in action and immune to record wear, scratches, or blunt needles. A tone generator is available to record the disks required for the system."
"The magnetic cuing device was designed to eliminate the necessity of cutting notches in the edges of motion picture originals used in film printers. — The method of magnetic cuing consists in painting a small dot of magnetic material on the edge of the film between two perforation holes. The paint may be placed on either the emulsion or base side of the film and still be detected by the low impedance (50-ohm) magnetic detector. — The equipment as designed contains two independent cuing channels, one for controlling printer-light changes and the other for controlling a fade-in or fade-out device which is built in on some printers. A mounting for two extremely small pickup heads has been designed to allow direct replacement of existing notch actuator switches in film printers."
"The types of synchronous counters, or heads, in general use present several problems in the cutting of the multiplicity of negatives-used in color processes. The necessity of constantly threading and unthreading negatives to match the work print invites scratches and other damage to the negatives. — An improved type of synchronous counter has been developed which accommodates either three or six negatives (six being used in dissolves and fades) together with a work print. A special positioning lock allows the work print to be advanced or retarded in relation to the negative, and relocked in frame. To facilitate threading, the keeper rollers are designed to lift into a vertical position, thus making it possible simply to set the film onto the sprocket without having to slide it under or over rollers or sprockets. A novel arrangement of a lucite stripping-shoe allows illumination of the film from beneath in order to locate frame lines."
"This paper deals with the use of magnetic recording in the production of motion pictures and describes the improvements and economies which magnetic recording effects. Its use is considered in original production recordings, talent testing and coaching, playbacks, re-recordings, foreign versions, publicity recordings, reverberation control, anticipated noise reduction, newsreel single-system recordings, and “electrical printing.”"
"This paper reviews the progress in synchronous magnetic recording since it was first demonstrated in May, 1948. Design specifications for portable applications are discussed."
"This paper represents a study to determine the amount of spurious printed-through signal from adjacent layers in a roll of magnetic tape. Effects of time, temperature, and output level of the original recording are taken into consideration, and conclusions drawn."
"Referring to the on-axis measurement out of doors and the correction factor obtained at the Academy Award Theater indoors, the listening tests with Motion Picture Research Council Test Reel ASTR-3 and current studio product verify the electrical-response curve needed for adequate bass response. Additional low-frequency rise was used to determine its effect. It was found that no appreciable equalization could be used. In the case of the high-frequency droop, the rate of attenuation for this particular loudspeaker system was determined to be optimum using a response curve which has been in use for many years with this type of diaphragm and horn construction. — The Motion Picture Research Council Bulletin on Standard Electrical Characteristics dated April 20, 1948, states: — “Although the standard electrical characteristics for the newer-type speaker systems are essentially the same as for the older-type systems, acoustical-response measurements and listening tests have shown that a substantial increase in response is being obtained at the higher frequencies with the newer systems. The increase in efficiency and extension of frequency range is desirable so that the theater may take advantage of the improvements that are continually raising the standard of quality of the release print.” — It has been found over the years that attempts to correct major irregularities in response by upward equalization yield sound distinctly inferior to that produced by a system which does not require this equalization. The outdoor free-field measurement technique described has supplied information in such a manner that improvements in design are indicated and then checked for results. Smoothness of response is constantly being sought and this tool definitely indicates the progress that is being obtained. — To our knowledge, this is the first time a standardized method of measuring theater loudspeakers has been conducted jointly by designers and users. The outcome of the tests described here demonstrates the practical value of concentrated action along this line."
"Physical measurements of loudspeaker performance are becoming recognized increasingly as a reliable guide for the evaluation of loudspeaker excellence. Facilities for the calibration of loudspeakers and microphones are described. The measurement techniques are illustrated with data describing a recent model loudspeaker showing the principal performance criteria; namely, frequency response, angular distribution, and distortion. Suggestions are given for a uniform presentation of performance data and specifications."
"This paper describes a new soundhead for use in studio review rooms which provides a new optical system similar to that used in new re-recording equipment for double-width tracks. A single control permits operation with standard single-track, 100-mil push-pull or 200 mil push-pull. The film motion is of the new double-arm type equipped with hydraulic damping and controlled compliance. It is also readily adapted for magnetic reproduction."
"This paper describes a completely new 16-mm reproducer for studio re-recording operations which is comparable in basic performance to recently developed 35-mm equipment and contains similar facilities for convenience in rapid operation. — The film-drive mechanism gives excellent flutter performance with a maximum of simplicity and requires a minimum of maintenance. Various motor speeds may be accommodated. — The optical system provides for a maximum signal-to-noise ratio and contains an operating adjustment for optimum focus with emulsion on either side of the film. An adjustable speed rewind is provided with automatic shutoff. — The machine is contained in a steel-rack-type cabinet which stands from the floor and permits machines to be mounted side by side. Rack-mounting space is available for associated apparatus on standard panels."
"While retaining the basic principles of the earlier Eastman sound reduction printers, this new model incorporates significant improvements such as: a newly designed apochromatic objective system, a condenser system of increased efficiency, reduction of film wear by elimination of all stationary members in the film path, increased film capacity, torque motor take-ups, lifetime lubrication of most bearings, pedestal mounting for greater convenience of operation, and complete operating controls conveniently located."
"This paper describes an electronic mixer having performance characteristics suitable for high-quality sound recordings. Rapid acting time and comparatively fast restoring time are some of the features enumerated. Complete performance characteristics and mechanical arrangements are shown."
"A novel method of obtaining balanced pairs of variable-gain tubes for compressors and limiters is described. Virtually thumpless operation is obtained through the use of these balanced variable-gain tube pairs."
"A method is described for making “direct-positive” variable-density sound records. Improvements over previous records are high output level, high signal-to-noise ratio, low distortion, and elimination of printer loss and distortion. Standard light valves with a superposed high-frequency bias are used in making the record."
"The color-vision characteristics of the eye are discussed and the rules which are followed are used to show the requirements for the “perfect” additive and subtractive three-color photographic processes. Since these requirements are not achieved in practice, a theoretical study of a practical color process may not always give an adequate analysis of its usefulness. However, such an analysis may point out some of the pitfalls which occur in practice. For example, many subjects may appear to be the same color to the normal eye and yet give different results when photographed. Also, any given color may be reproduced incorrectly by any process in use. — The effects on picture quality of changes in contrast, balance, and a variety of other variables are shown. The restrictions which some of these factors place on the use of color films are mentioned."
"Currently available subtractive color-photography processes provide pleasing pictures of most natural objects. However, when an original color photograph is the subject, as in the cases of duplicating and copying, the resulting reproduction is usually not satisfactory when compared with the original. Differences between the original and the reproduction are primarily due to the high photographic contrast and the optical characteristics of the dyes in the original. Masking to improve the quality of color reproductions involves making an auxiliary image, generally by a photographic method, and registering it with the original color transparency. Reproductions are made from the combined transparency and mask."
"The following three papers were presented at the 63rd Semiannual Convention of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers at Hollywood in May, 1948, at a joint meeting with the Inter-Society Color Council. Two other papers presented at the same sessions were most instructive, but consisted of physical demonstrations and color illustrations to such an extent that reproduction in the JOURNAL is impractical"
"New light sources are being developed regularly. No longer can industry depend upon carbon-arc lamps and incandescent lamps alone. A brief description of all the important light sources will be made with special emphasis on their spectral characteristics and their effect on colored objects."
"The straightforward approach to any color problem requires consideration of the properties of illumination, the object, and the receptor. Ordinarily the receptor is the eye but in motion picture photography an intermediate step, the translation of the scene in front of the camera into a scene for presentation to the eye, is required. Since a successful final result from a color standpoint is a complex combination of many factors, color-reference points in the various stages of production are very welcome. — Many kinds of color-reference material are available and a careful appraisal will develop three points of difference. — One group includes collections of samples which illustrate the color gamut of colorants in prescribed mixtures, another group includes samples illustrating systems derived from color-mixture data, and a third group includes samples that illustrate systems that deal with various aspects of visual color space."
"Scientific studies of the effects of colors upon people have been very limited both in number and in scope. Preliminary investigations offer considerable promise that further scientific work along these lines will be fruitful. Some examples of results already obtained will be cited to show that preferences of people for colors and for color combinations can be predicted with satisfactory accuracy. Predictions are possible because there are definite relationships between some of the measurable aspects of colored objects and the degree of preference for colors as noted for the average person."
"This paper describes the method now used by Paramount in making 16-mm release prints from 35-mm original studio productions. The purpose of this method primarily is to produce 16-mm release prints comparable to the 35-mm sound and picture print quality and standards. A considerable advantage is gained by utilizing standard 35-mm facilities such as developing machines, rewinds, take-ups, and splicing equipment for most of the operations. Special 35-mm width films with 32-mm symmetrical 16-mm-type perforations are used for the sound and picture release negatives, with two tracks on each film so that two reels of 16-mm release are obtained with each developing and printing operation, thereby saving valuable time and equipment. — A specially designed optical-reduction printer is used to make the double-track picture release negative. A specially designed sound recorder is used to produce the highest possible quality of re-recorded sound negative. A specially designed contact release printer is used to print the 35-mm width, 32-mm perforated sound and picture double-track negatives to the 32-mm width fine-grain release positive stock. Twelve-hundred-foot rolls of the 32-mm print stock are used, corresponding to 3000 feet of the original 35-mm production. The 32-mm film is developed in a developing machine modified for this width and the finished print is then slit to make the two 16-mm release prints."
"This is the fourth semiannual report which I, as President, have had the honor of presenting to the Society of Motion Picture Engineers. It will be a review of the high lights of activity during the two-year period of my presidency."
"The Library of Congress attempted to restore to the screen the first twenty years of motion picture achievements by the optical printing of photographic paper rolls submitted for copyright registration from 1897 to 1917, but Congress refused to provide funds for the work. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, with the co-operation of The Library of Congress, now undertakes to do this work."
"A new book carrying the above title and published by the Society of Motion Picture Engineers was announced in December, 1948. Motion picture exhibitors, purchasing agents, and theater architects will find a wealth of valuable information in its thirty-eight articles and 427 pages on the technical aspects of motion picture theater planning, construction, maintenance, modernization, and theater television. — Copies are available from the Society at .00, postage paid within the United States, except that copies sold in New York City are subject to an additional ten-cent city sales tax. Copies shipped outside the continental United States or its possessions are .50, postage paid."
"The purpose of this study is to obtain an indication of the effect of television upon motion picture attendance habits. Such a study could suggest the extent to which television will affect box-office receipts when set ownership has become more widespread than it is at present. Telephone numbers of 550 owners of home television sets were selected at random from the four major boroughs of New York City. Interviews were completed with 415 owners of sets presently in working order."
"The primary purpose of Operation “Highjump,” 1946–1947, was to train personnel, test equipment, and improve operational techniques in subzero temperatures. Every phase of the operation and the performance of equipment undergoing tests were photographed in color motion pictures with a view toward producing technical and training films for educational purposes. — The many difficulties inherent in photographic operations in subzero temperatures and polar regions require special techniques. These and the malfunctions of cameras, and causes and suggestions for improvements are treated. The Navy is developing cameras more suitable for use in frigid areas."
"A new procedure is used in which the image of a rectangular picture is broken up and reassembled into a long narrow strip. After processing, the negative must be reconstructed into a rectangular motion picture frame by projection printing through an optical system similar to that which formed it."
"A comparison is given for lead-sulfide photoconductive cells versus photoemissive tubes with S1 and S4 response with respect to signal (expressed as voltage sensitivity dV/df) at different color temperatures of the exciting light source. Spectral response, linearity, uniformity, and frequency response of lead-sulfide cells are also discussed. — At present most of the phototubes used in sound reproduction are caesium-oxide gas-filled tubes. Of late, however, following a publication by R. J. Cashman1 considerable interest has been shown by the motion picture industry in the lead-sulfide cell. In the past year some additional insight has been gained as to the problems arising with the application of these cells to sound reproduction and it seems that the motion picture industry should be apprised of some of these problems in order to design their future equipment. In this paper we shall endeavor to discuss the lead-sulfide cells as compared to photoemissive tubes and to point out some modifications of the present practice which have to be followed in order to get optimum performance from lead-sulfide cells."
"This paper deals in a general way with volume compressors of the type used in sound recording. The subject matter is divided into six sections: the desirability of volume compression, compressor characteristics, problems arising from the use of compressors, classification of the types of compressors with the advantages and disadvantages of each type, compressor design, and the measurement of compressor performance."
"Information is presented relative to the adjustment of bias current in magnetic recordings and the various effects of bias changes on distortion, frequency response, overload characteristics, and permanency are discussed. Other factors which influence frequency response are outlined briefly and it is shown that the inherent frequency response of the medium is difficult to divorce from effects due to the recording system. The problem of noise is presented in general terms and the nature and level of the noise from a direct-current saturated medium is advanced as an important criterion of quality."
"Wide variable-area sound tracks that meet Academy Research Council dimensional specification1 RC-5001 have the advantage that they yield an improvement in ratio of signal to noise. The optical system for the new RCA Type PR-31 de luxe recording machine is equipped to make sound tracks to this standard. RCA recorders of earlier types can also be converted to record tracks to this standard. — The optics that provide this feature are confined to the slit and objective lens assembly and involve no extensive changes in the optical system. They consist primarily of an objective lens of new design that provides additional magnification in the direction of the slit length to meet the RC-5001 standard. When systems of earlier types are converted, a new slit and objective-lens barrel are installed, but no other optical changes are required. The converted system will produce all types of area tracks that could be made before conversion, and may be equipped for phototube monitoring."
"This paper compares two alternate methods of obtaining a signal for cross-modulation testing. It also describes a meter which will give from a single print density the information formerly given only by a series of prints of different densities. This meter will be of help in predicting trends in processing variations due to changes in developing."
"This paper describes the technical details covering the mounting, optical performance, and optical design of a new series of 16-mm projection lenses for professional use. Focal lengths of 2 to 4 inches, in half-inch steps, with speeds of f/1.6 are provided. Measurements of resolving power, optical corrections, and vignetting are included."
"The Eastman Kodak Company has recently announced a matched series of high-grade interchangeable lenses for 16-mm motion picture cameras, to be known as Kodak Ciné Ektar lenses. There are six focal lengths, from 15 to 152 mm, in geometrical progression with a common ratio of about 1.6. Relative apertures are unusually high, from f/1.4 for the 25-mm lens to f/4.0 for the 152-mm lens. The mechanical back focus in all cases has been designed to be greater than 12.7 mm to allow space for a reflex finder and a camera turret. — The reasons underlying the choice of formula for each lens are discussed, with particular reference to aperture and angular field. The definition in all cases is remarkably good over the entire frame, even at the maximum aperture. The lens barrels are large for convenience but light in weight, and the diaphragm scales are uniformly spaced. Unusually complete and equally spaced focus scales have been adopted for increased convenience in use. All glass-air surfaces are hard-coated, and the lens barrels are baffled to give the maximum image contrast and freedom from flare. The lenses can be fitted to any 16-mm camera by means of suitable adapters."
"In variable-width sound recording, the fidelity of the recorded wave form depends in part upon the sensitometric conditions to which the photosensitive materials are subjected. The well-known cross-modulation test is available for determining the optimum sensitometric conditions which result in minimum distortion. — Another method of determining the optimum density under any given processing conditions, the zero-shift test, has been used for several years in the Kodak Research Laboratories. In this test, the average transmission of a high-frequency sine-wave track is compared with that of an unmodulated, unbiased track at the same image density, by means of a simple physical densitometer. At optimum density, where photographic distortion is minimum, these two transmissions are equal. Measurements at a single image density show directly whether that density lies above, below, or at the optimum. Optimum density thus determined is in good agreement with that found by the cross-modulation test. The equipment required is simple and only a small amount of film is needed. The zero-shift test is recommended for use in cases where the more extensive cross-modulation test is not believed to be justified."
"Photographic Processing inherently involves chemical operations which require adequate purity of the chemicals to attain a high standard of photographic quality. As a result, it has been found desirable to set up standards of purity for “photographic grade” chemicals to meet the requirements of the various sensitive materials and processes. These chemicals fall into groups according to their use or chemical nature : developing agents, alkalies, sulfites, restrainers and antifoggants, fixing agents, acids, hardeners, and a group of miscellaneous chemicals."
"The paper reviews the development and performance of the theater television system developed and now being used by Paramount Pictures. Paramount has chosen the intermediate film method because of the flexible manner in which it can be integrated into theater operations, and its technical excellence."
"In an effort to determine some of the problems and to learn some of the limitations and potentialities of the instantaneous projection method of large-screen theater television, Twentieth Century-Fox, with the assistance of the Radio Corporation of America, made an installation in the Fox-Philadelphia Theater, June, 1948. It is the purpose of this paper to give a factual report on the problems encountered in locating, installing, programming, and using the equipment in a typical operating downtown theater, and to comment on the reaction of the audience to a showing of the Louis-Walcott world's championship fight."
"A precision speed control is capable of maintaining motor speed within 1 part in 25,000 under voltage variations of plus or minus 20 per cent and load variations from zero to full load. For motion picture production this order of regulation provides the equivalent of synchronous operation without physical connection between such motors."
"The automatic tempo indicator provides a visual cuing system to replace, or augment, the stage playback loudspeaker system used in the production of musical sequences."
"Any Review of Progress within the motion picture industry during 1948 must take into account the much greater progress of television throughout that period. The phenomenal rise of the new medium of entertainment is a social change, which affects not only motion pictures but all other forms of entertainment and education. The year was marked by a series of dire predictions as to the closing of thousands of motion picture theaters, along with estimates of the millions of feet of film required for presenting television programs by means of motion pictures. It was therefore natural that these changes at home, together with limitations on the world-wide exchange of films, created a condition of economic uncertainty which influenced, technical developments, installations, and operations."
"During the Week of April 4-8, 1949, the 65th Semiannual Convention of the Society was held at the Hotel Statler in New York City. Seven hundred and seventy-five members and guests registered for the nine sessions which featured television, high-speed photography, and a 16-mm sound forum. In addition to the forty-seven technical papers that were presented, two speeches were given, Dr. Allen B. DuMont, who was the guest speaker at the Get-Together Luncheon, spoke on “The Relation of Motion Pictures to Television.” On Thursday evening, Dr. Henry B. Hansteen delivered a popular lecture on “Nuclear Energy and Its Application.”"
"In Recognition of his outstanding work as an officer and member of the Society, Donald E. Hyndman was presented with a plaque on April 6, 1949, during the 65th Semiannual Convention of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers. Not only were his efforts as Chairman of the Sustaining Membership Committee publicly ac-knowledged, but also the fact that unceasingly during the years Mr. Hyndman devoted himself to furthering the interests of the Society and in helping materially to increase its prestige, both technically and in its ability to serve its members and their industry."
"Cameras—At the present time films for television are being photographed with both 35-mm and 16-mm motion picture cameras at the standard speed of 24 frames per second. For production work where synchronized sound is to be used, the camera must be driven at synchronous speed. A number of television stations currently making their own newsreels use commercially available 16-mm professional cameras and associated equipment."
"During the past two centuries many attempts have been made to produce a visible music. If realizable, such a music combined with the existing sound music should find widespread application in screen-and-sound entertainment. Requirements for such an art are considered primarily from a scientific rather than artistic point of view, and a new development approach is proposed."
"The effects of positive-crater cooling are described, and a suitable apparatus for this purpose is illustrated. The combination of specially made high-brightness carbons with water-cooled operation permits the use of higher currents without unsteadiness, and so gives a higher brightness than has been achieved in conventional air-cooled operation. This is attributed to the fact that effective cooling of the positive carbon removes energy which would otherwise be dissipated in turbulent volatilization, so that a higher current density can be achieved in the light-producing gas ball before overload turbulence occurs. A considerable part of the more efficient crater cooling is attributable to the carbons themselves, since they will operate without water cooling at higher currents and brightnesses than other types of equal size. — Within the limit of satisfactory air-cooled operation with a given carbon, efficient water cooling always reduced the light produced at a given current; the ability to operate with higher brightness at higher currents was thus gained at the expense of a lower current efficiency. Carbons designed for efficient air-cooled operation gave no better result with water cooling; the current efficiency was sacrificed with no gain in maximum brightness."
"The influence of carbon cooling, especially of the positive carbon, on the properties and the mechanism of the high-current carbon arc are studied systematically. An experimental super high-intensity carbon, designed by the National Carbon Company especially for this service, was used. With respect to the technical advantages of carbon cooling (increased arc steadiness, reduced positive-carbon consumption, reduced crater depth, higher possible brightness) our results agree with those presented simultaneously by the National Carbon group. Quantitative relations between current, net arc voltage, net arc wattage, gross arc wattage, crater brightness, carbon consumption, light efficiency, and crater depth for the cooled and the uncooled arc are presented in the form of graphs based on more than 1000 measurements. The considerable reduction of the net arc voltage by cooling the positive carbon indicates an influence of carbon cooling on the arc mechanism itself which is explained, on the basis of the author's anode drop theory, as a consequence of chemical and structural changes in the carbons resulting from the difference in temperatures near the burning end. These changes have been confirmed by X-ray diffraction studies."
"A disk recording-reproducing console employing a two-speed synchronous drive is described. Improved motion is attainable by use of an oil-pressure-type thrust bearing and a compliance filter coupled to a planetary gear drive. Operation from either synchronous or interlock motor systems is possible by use of a new combination synchronous-interlock motor. Special control features incorporated in the design make its use particularly suited for all phases of disk sound recording."
"A new type of drive incorporates an oil-filled filter and bearing assembly which supports the turntable. Bronze bearings especially designed to prevent generation of low-frequency vibration or “rumble” are used. A mechanical filter is used to suppress flutter. This assembly is driven by a special rubber coupling which prevents the transmission of mechanical vibration from the gear box to the turntable."
"Despite a decade and a half of widespread use of multifrequency test reels throughout the motion picture industry, the method of calibration has not been standardized. One result has been nonuniformity of calibration by various agents and another is lack of clear understanding of the significance of the calibration data. This paper discusses prevailing diversity of calibration results, describes a means of securing an absolute calibration of relative level at various frequencies, and proposes a standard definition of level of recorded signal and methods for measuring it."
"The Proposed American Standard for a common type 35-mm film perforation for both positive and negative film which appears in the following pages is published here for 90-day trial and criticism. It is now being proposed for adoption as an American Standard in order to solve the registration problems that exist in the printing of certain types of color release prints. It is possible to meet the problems of exact registration needed for color prints by the use of cine negative perforations in the release prints. However, many people are reluctant to do this because they fear that they cannot in this way make release prints which will have satisfactory projection lives. One answer to this problem is the use of combination positive and negative perforations proposed herewith. While the problem of preparing satisfactory color release prints is the reason for the presentation of this proposal, the whole question of 35-mm standards is involved. This problem is an old one and dates back to 1916. The following comments are intended to furnish a background for a proper consideration of the standards."
"At THE PRESENT TIME the Society's prestige in the industry is at an all-time high. Over thirty-two years of effort in the direction originally set by the Society's founders have made the JOURNAL a standard reference for motion picture and television engineers everywhere; Society membership has grown to nearly 3000 without a prolonged or intense effort in this direction; income from Sustaining members for each of the last three years has been in excess of $20,000; and the Society has established itself as a clearing house for industry standards as well as a major producer of 16-mm and 35-mm test films."
"Reproducible processing of Ansco color film requires continuous control of the solution compositions. Early experience showed that frequent change of processing solutions was necessary to maintain consistency. New replenisher formulas are described which together with sensitometric controls and occasional chemical analysis have proved successful for maintaining the processing solutions in a satisfactory condition indefinitely. Color-balance differences resulting from varied types of agitation, depending on the processing equipment, may be adjusted by changing the chemical constitution of the first developer."
"Published procedures for black-and-white developer analysis are reviewed. New analytical methods are described or old ones modified to achieve the accuracy required for the complete control of all constituents of the developers used for Ansco color film. To evaluate the bleach solution prior to regeneration, a procedure is presented for the determination of ferrocyanideion in this solution."
"The modification of the printer head of a Bell and Howell Model J printer to accept filters for color printing is described. The novel location of the filters has the advantages of easy accessibility for quick inter-changing of filters, ability to use smaller size filters, and greatly increased filter life."
"In 16-mm Ansco color motion picture film the silver is removed from the image, leaving dye in the three layers. The combination (maximum density) of the subtractive colors has a visual density of about 3, which is sufficient to produce good screen contrast. The maximum density, while being visually opaque, has a transmission band in the near infrared in the region of 8000 angstrom units, which is the most sensitive region of the cesium-type phototube. While for many purposes this may not be objectionable, it can be overcome by differentially processing the film so that the sound-track modulations are opaque to red light without affecting the dye picture area. This paper describes a method by which differential treatment of the sound track area can be accomplished."
"Precise control of all of the laboratory operations in producing color motion pictures is essential to obtain release prints of high quality. A description is given of a new building and equipment especially designed to carry on development work on all the laboratory phases of producing motion pictures in Ansco color."
"Users of 35-mm bipack film have been restricted to the use of 400-foot rolls of negative stock. This is because present standard photographic equipment will not handle 1000-foot rolls in the conventional-type bipack magazine. Loss of production time and excessive negative wastage, as well as severe photographic limitations, are the result. — An adapter has been developed at Cinecolor Corporation which permits the use of 1000-foot rolls of negative film in side-by-side position, rather than one over the other. This arrangement gives an attractive and convenient operating assembly, which keeps the center of gravity low. It eliminates the need for unwieldy and top-heavy blimps. The adapter causes the films to be changed from a side-by-side to the superimposed emulsion-to-emulsion relationship required in bipack photography. In the Cinecolor arrangement, the 1000-foot rolls are fed from a single 70-mm magazine into the adapter. Two individual 1000-foot magazines can be used equally well."
"Cathode-ray tubes and oscillographs are ideal tools for the solution of many technical problems in the related arts of photography and optics. The methods described represent typical examples of the application of electronic-measurement techniques in such fields. — Applications considered and illustrated include: (1) Gloss measurement on photographic papers. (2) Goniophotometry of light sources. (3) Shutter, flashbulb, and synchronizer testing. (4) Cathode-ray-tube light sources for facsimile and stroboscopic work. (5) Scanning technique for television motion picture recording. (6) The combination of optical and electronic magnification for the study of gear and sprocket imperfections. (7) Automatic H and D curve plotting during film development. (8) Cathode-ray-tube sound on film recording systems. (9) The measurement of ripple in light sources. (10) Color studies in natural color reproduction and chromatic aberration in lenses. (11) Vibration studies of motion picture equipment. — The techniques and cathode-ray oscillograph accessories described will find wide application in other fields as well."
"The factors involved in the design of large-aperture objectives are discussed and some of the general approaches to the reduction of the various aberrations are presented. Diagrams, classification, and source references of most objectives of f/1 aperture or greater which have been published are included. Both refracting and reflecting systems are considered, including objectives having spherical and aspherical surfaces and those employing the immersion principle. Applications, testing, and performance of extreme-aperture objectives are discussed. An extensive bibliography is appended."
"Intensity, color, and directivity are important factors in the proper design of television studio-lighting facilities. Good color response can be attained with image-orthicon tubes using a combination of fluorescent and incandescent lights, together with simple filters on the camera lens. The characteristics of these lamps and filters are presented along with means of estimating power requirements for various sizes of studios."
"Improved television pictures can be produced by (1) limiting the contrast of the original scene, (2) by selecting light sources that when combined with the camera-tube spectral sensitivity provide accurate tonal rendering, and (3) by using lighting techniques that aid in creating an illusion of three dimensions on the receiver screen."
"Screen illumination in theater projection is limited by a maximum radiant-energy flux through the projector aperture. Excessive flux heats the film beyond its safe operating temperature, producing high-intensity effects in the film with loss of image quality on the screen and possible film damage. An increase of 30 to 60 per cent in permissible flux and in attainable screen illumination can be effected if film is cooled and its position controlled by high-velocity air jets directed at the film in the aperture. The high-intensity film effects are discussed and improvements in film behavior with air cooling are described."
"The rates of aerial oxidation of negative and positive motion picture developers in a pilot spray-developing cabinet, employing small and large reservoirs of developer, were measured and compared with the rates for three other typical circulation systems involving varying degrees of aeration. The wastage of chemicals in the spray cabinet depended upon the volume of developer circulated. In the case of D76d developer the wastage in the spray machine could be less than that in normal systems involving average aeration providing that the volume of circulating developer was sufficiently small. In a positive developer at pH 10.5 the wastage was from 2 to 6 times as much as that in the normal systems, depending upon the volume of developer used. — It was found that the rate of loss of chemicals from developers of pH below 10.0 reached a maximum on increasing the degree of aeration. At low pH's the maximum was reached at a low degree of aeration, thus accounting for the possibility of making economical use of spray processing in the case of D76d. At pH 10.5 no maximum rate of loss was reached on increasing the aeration. — The rate of loss of the developing agents was found to vary inversely with the sulfite concentration. It was not affected by the presence of colloidal silver, or by traces of copper or dye."
"A number of experiments have been performed on the behavior of lead-sulfide photoconductive cells, as applied to sound reproduction. These include measurements of sensitivity or signal output under a wide variety of conditions in a standard 16-mm sound projector. Data have been procured with silver, silver sulfide, dye image, and iron-toned sound tracks. Measurements have also been made on the frequency response and variation of signal output with exciter-lamp color temperature."
"Development of magnetic recording at the Bell Telephone Laboratories is described with the application of such facilities to Western Electric recording and reproducing systems. A method of driving 35-mm magnetic film with a flutter content not greater than 0.1 per cent is described, as is a multigap erasing head."
"The paper presents a survey of recording outside the United States of America, contrasting the problems of these studios with those of Hollywood. The equipment and service organizations developed to meet the needs of these studios are described."
"Producing an invisible picture splice is one of the major problems of present-day video recording. The various quantities which must be controlled to produce an invisible splice are enumerated with special emphasis on the persistence characteristic of the cathode-ray-tube phosphor."
"A new electronic shutter analyzer employing a two-gun cathode-ray oscilloscope with two phototubes has been developed by the Navy. This device is designed to permit the rapid analysis and solution of numerous problems commonly encountered in photography including: (1) shutter operation and efficiency; (2) shutter-flash synchronization; (3) shutter-solenoid delay; (4) flash-gun-switch, solenoid-shutter delay; (5) internal-shutter-switch contact time; (6) switch or electrical contact efficiency; (7) diaphragm calibration; (8) duration and intensity of light as emitted by flashbulbs and some gaseous discharge tubes."
"A sample of the developer solution is diluted with a pH 5 acetate buffer and its absorbancy† measured at two wavelengths in the ultraviolet region. The concentration of Elon‡ and hydroquinone in a fresh unused developer solution can be determined directly from these two absorbancies. Used or old developer solutions are analyzed by extracting the unoxidized Elon and hydroquinone with ethyl acetate. Absorbancy measurements made on the system before and after extraction serve to determine the amount of Elon and hydroquinone present."
"This paper describes materials suitable for the lubrication of 16-mm films. Wax-carbon tetrachloride formulas are given, together with the precautions which must be observed in using them. Slower-evaporating wax-isopropyl alcohol mixtures are described for use where additional drying space is available. By the use of these formulas, 16-mm films can be adequately lubricated at a material cost of $0.01 per 400 feet of film. — New formulas using Freon, a rapid-drying, noninflammable solvent, of extremely low order of toxicity, are suggested. A suitable surface treatment for use with films to be run on repeater mechanisms is described."
"The three standards which appear on the following pages are being published for 90 days' trial and criticism. Any comment you may have should be addressed to the Staff Engineer at the Society's office, 342 Madison Avenue, New York 17, New York, before January 1, 1950."
"An historical review of theater television's growth from 1930 to 1949 is presented. The authors outline the status of theater television equipment used for direct or “film storage” projection, including an analysis of the radio-frequency requirements, methods of program distribution, and capital costs of a nation-wide theater television system. Some aspects of theater television programming are also presented."
"On February 20, 1948, the Federal Communications Commission issued a Public Notice (48-481, Mimeo. 17266) reporting under Docket No. 6651 on radio-frequency allocations to nongovernment services between 1000 and 13,200 megacycles, as a result of hearings held on January 15 and May 26, 1947. On June 29, 1949, the Commission invited the Society, Paramount, and Twentieth Century-Fox to file Statements concerning the allocation of bands of frequencies for commercial theater television service, requesting that these Statements be presented by September 2, 1949."
"This statement was prepared by the Theater Television Committee of the Society of Motion Picture Engineers, under the chairmanship of Donald E. Hyndman, and was filed with the Secretary of the Commissian on August 29, 1949."
"Studies relating to the effects of radiant energy upon the film in the projector aperture have become of increasing importance with the use of higher volumes of projected light. A portable device for measuring the radiant energy at the center of the projector aperture is described and its construction outlined. Radiant energy in units of watts per square millimeter can be read directly from a self-contained indicating meter."
"This subcommittee of the Standards Committee was appointed primarily to establish a standard method of photometrically calibrating diaphragm openings for motion picture camera lenses as distinguished from the well-known f system of aperture markings. The demand for a photometric type of aperture calibration (“T stop”) is becoming increasingly felt, and it has the advantage that diaphragms of any shape, pentagonal, scalloped, or irregular, can be correctly labeled with as much ease as a circular aperture. The presence or absence of antireflection coatings is automatically included in the calibration, and so also are factory variations in the focal length and in the iris mechanism. The illumination on the film in the center of the field will therefore be the same for all lenses at the same T stop, assuming that the object is a uniform plane surface perpendicular to the lens axis. It is implicit, also, that each lens shall be individually calibrated if the photometric method is used."
"The camera to be described was designed expressly for lenstesting and precise copy work. Its rigidity, method of photographic plate location, and focusing accuracy are such that it fully utilizes the capabilities of the high-definition lenses and photographic plates used with it. Its general construction is sturdy, and it has been demonstrated, by four years of continuous use, that little or no maintenance or repair will be required for many years to come."
"This paper reviews the activities and procedures used in the formation of the present 35-mm Motion Picture Research Council theater sound-equipment recommendations. Using this experience as a reference point, a 16-mm sound electrical characteristic is recommended. It is specified that in both 35-mm and 16-mm fields these recommendations apply only to a specific type of loudspeaker and individual response curves must be recommended depending on the type of loudspeaker used."
"Land economics, sociology, and physical planning have enabled us to determine with scientific exactness the characteristics of the urban retail structure, of which the theater is a part. Today, the selection of the location of the theater is more important than ever before because of various new trends adversely affecting the motion picture industry. The following is the basic information required to determine the suitability of a location and site for a theater: size of the tributary population; living and spending habits; the retail pattern; physical characteristics; and the anticipated development of the area. Once these factors are ascertained, we can determine the relation between seating capacity and population in the tributary area and evaluate the economics involved."
"The spotlight to be described includes many features which are the result of an extensive investigation of desirable characteristics in such devices. An integral transformer supplies low-voltage alternating current to the arc from any 115-volt, alternating-current outlet at a drain of only 10 amperes. A double-element variable-focus optical system allows the spot size to be continuously adjusted with negligible light loss."
"A Continental Division of the SMPE European Advisory Committee has been appointed by the President of the SMPE. The Division Chairman is L. Didiée, President of the AFITEC (Association Française des Igenieurs et Techniciens du Cinéma), and members are—"
"Methods of obtaining ballistic data on long-range and guided missiles in the Army Ordnance Department's missile program at White Sands Proving Ground are described. The use of motion pictures for obtaining trajectory measurements and information on detailed flight performance of missiles launched at the White Sands range has produced a significant wealth of data for use of ballisticians and design engineers engaged in the development of long-range guided missiles."
"THERE ARE TWO METHODS of taking high-speed motion pictures widely used in the United States today. Furthermore there is work being conducted at present which will combine both of these methods into a third method."
"Heretofore, in all high-speed photography instantaneous time covered one complete frame, the continuity of instantaneous frames forming the time axis. This is fundamental even with image dissecting methods which reduce frame length by lateral displacement of frame elements, a trick done to shorten physically the time axis and allow the higher speeds mechanically inherent in less length of film. A new method of obtaining high-speed pictures is described whereby instantaneous time covers multiple small portions of a single frame, the total area of these small portions being sufficient to provide detail and the single frame being large enough to permit unmagnified observation. This is accomplished by multiple-aperture focal-plane scanners."
"It is shown how, with the multiple-aperture scanning method of high-speed photography, the absolute number of entirely new position pictures of a moving object is more a function of how many grains of emulsion are uncovered in the total aperture travel than a function of the number of aperture widths uncovered. This results in many more frames per event than had been assumed heretofore. A second camera of this type is described in which two-dimensional scanning gives composite pictures with a dot structure. This is accomplished by means of a rotating disk. This camera is capable of taking high-speed pictures at the rate of at least 1,000,000 per second."
"A brief description of the Jenkins camera is presented with illustrations of the optical principles. In co-operation with the Taylor Model Basin, the optical system was redesigned in an attempt to overcome faults encountered with the Jenkins camera. Lenses were mounted on the rim of the lens wheel instead of the flange. This eliminated one fault but introduced others. These faults were all minimized to the extent that the resolving power of the camera is better than that of the film. The 20-lens camera covers a 35-mm sound aperture and holds up to 200 feet of film. It has been operated up to 2350 pictures per second at an f/9 effective aperture."
"A motion picture camera is described, developed in the laboratories of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, which has made photographs of combustion phenomena in an engine cylinder at 500,000 frames per second. Illustrations and references are included. Sample photographs are reproduced."
"A drum-type camera designed to take pictures at any rate up to 200,000 frames per second is described. A total of 1300 frames of the 16-mm frame size are recorded on a single piece of film from which they can be printed directly for projection and analysis."
"Principles of design of rotating prisms for high-speed cameras are discussed. A new approach is used in the principles and prisms of higher resolution can be obtained by following this unique approach."
"New British cameras for high-speed cinematography are described, among which are included those designed by Marley1 and by Brailsford and Shrubb.2 The principles of a new Kerr-cell electro-optical shutter which can be used for cinematography are outlined, together with details of its performance. New light sources for high-speed cinematography include mercury-vapor lamps run at high current densities, and foil-filled flashbulbs fired in rapid succession. Several applications of high-speed cinematography are described showing how the solutions to engineering problems have been obtained when the parts concerned are in rapid motion, especially when the amplitudes of the movements are too small to resolve easily in a normal record. The vibration characteristics of the anvil of an 8-ton drop-forging hammer were determined by the use of a special optical, system attached to the anvil. Because of the widespread disturbance caused by the hammer blow, an artificially fixed point in space for reference purposes Was arranged by means of a long-period damped pendulum system bearing a fiducial indicator. The surface characteristics of white-hot steel bars were studied during high-speed rolling by means of high-speed cinematography using ultraviolet light."
"A brief background is given of the Bowen ribbon-frame camera, as developed for the study of rockets and guided missiles under free-flight conditions. The main constructional features are discussed as well as the orienting system used on the rocket range. Timing and camera-phasing devices are mentioned which make the film record assessable to an accuracy of 20 microseconds on the CZR Bowen camera, a model recently developed to meet the increasingly stringent angular and timing accuracies needed In the testing of high-velocity missiles."
"This paper will consider the schlieren system as a problem in physical optics. On the basis of such considerations the effect of aperture, focal length, light-source size, and knife-edge position on the quality of schlieren photographs will be discussed. First, the mathematical analysis of the subject will be briefly presented. On the basis of this analysis the schlieren system will be considered using a point source. The case of finite- source size then will be discussed. A brief discussion of the effect of astigmatism on the focal length of the system also will be presented."
"This paper reviews the problems involved in the process of evaluating high-intensity illumination levels and the establishment of proper exposure criteria for high-speed motion picture cameras. The problems involved in the design of a suitable light-measuring instrument are discussed, concluding with a detailed description of a light meter which has recently been developed specifically for the purpose of determining proper camera settings for high-speed motion picture studies under any lighting conditions from normal daylight to illumination values as high as 300,000 foot-candles."
"The shortest photographic exposures are made while taking pictures of cathode-ray oscillographic patterns. Because of the unique characterististics of cathode-ray-tube images, many specialized techniques are required to record them adequately and to overcome the problems encountered. These techniques are considered in detail. Their proper use will result in considerable improvement in cathode-ray oscillography."
"The use of high-speed motion pictures has made it possible to analyze extremely rapid motions associated with explosion phenomena and high-impact shock. In order to do this efficiently, certain techniques have been developed in the preparation of the test specimen and the calibration and measurement of the results on the film."
"This paper relates to techniques which have been developed at the Bell Telephone Laboratories for taking high-speed motion pictures in full color. Different types of incandescent light sources necessary to provide the extremely high level of illumination are described and illustrated."
"A water-cooled high-pressure mercury-vapor lamp operated on direct current which has been used for motion picture projection is described. When mounted in a suitable reflector, it is a powerful light source for high-speed photographic applications. The lamp has a bore of somewhat less than 2 mm and an arc length of 12 1/2 mm. It can be operated continuously at 1000 watts and has a brightness of about 320,000 candles per square inch along the axis of the arc. With the reflector described, an area 5 inches in diameter can be illuminated to 50,000 foot-candles with one lamp unit. With a lamp of double length consuming 2 kilowatts, the illumination level may be increased considerably."
"The bright-field view finder recently developed for the Fastax 16-mm high-speed motion picture camera is described. Its advantages over the currently used ground-glass view finder are discussed. Two new special purpose lenses have also been designed for the Fastax."
"By THE DEATH of Captain A. G. D. West at the age of 52 while mountaineering in Switzerland. television has lost one of its outstanding pioneers."
"Further information concerning the material described below can be obtained by writing direct to the manufacturers. As in the case of technical papers, publication of these news items does not constitute endorsement of the manufacturer's statements nor of his products."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"This, the thirteenth volume of the Digest of Literature on Dielectrics, covers the literature of calendar year 1949 and certain residual papers from 1948. The number of references cited has expanded about fifty percent over those in the 1948 Digest. This reflects probably on expanded literature in science and technology generally and perhaps a somewhat wider coverage for the Digest. In only one chapter were there fewer references."
"The relative maturity of the field of dielectrics is well illustrated by the fact that in 1949, as in 1948, the most interesting developments were in borderline subjects rather than in the extensive volume of research on dielectrics as such. One such borderline topic is a very active field of contemporary physics, solid state electronics. Investigations in this field are included in several sections of the Digest. For example, in the semiconductor section, an important series of papers on the mechanism of hole and electron conduction in germanium is reviewed. This work is of great assistance in understanding the electronic conduction process in other semiconductors and in insulating crystals in general."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"This chapter, in addition to summarizing the literature or fundamental research in dielectrics, has collected all those references which had no logical place in the other chapters. The theoretical papers directly pertinent to the subject of other chapters of this digest will be found in those chapters respectively."
"Small variable three-terminal air capacitors are becoming of increasing importance. Bowdler1 has constructed such a capacitor whose capacitance is known to 1% over the range from 0.01 to 10µ µf. This wide range is obtained by retracting the guarded electrode into a hole in the guard electrode. This produces an exponential relation between capacitance and motion of the electrode. It is similar to a capacitor previously described by Moon and Sparks58 and recently mathematically formulated, by Snow59."
"It is natural to divide papers on breakdown into groups dealing separately with solids, liquids and gases. But there are similarities as well as differences between the break-down processes in each of these different states of aggregation, and progress in the understanding of any one of them may aid in the understanding of the others."
"An excellent, short survey of the field of semiconductors and related topics is afforded by the compilation of papers presented at the AIEE Symposium on Electrical Properties of Semiconductors and the Transistor. The compilation consists of a qualitative discussion of theories of rectification and noise generation in metal-semiconductor contacts1, internal and external photoeffects2, the nature of conductivity3 and the transistor4. In Ref. 1, energy level diagrams are developed to describe the behavior of various metal-semiconductor contacts. Contacts are described between metal and n-type semiconductor, metal and p-type semiconductor, metal and semiconductor having surface states, and a contact having an artificial blocking layer. The Schottky theory is considered in some detail and numerical comparison made between experiment and theoretical predictions. Theories of the source of contact noise are summarized. The schematic mechanism for internal and external photoeffects is presented in Ref. 2. The primary and secondary photoconductive effects are discussed, including the properties of a germanium photoconductive cell. A comprehensive review is given of the use of photoelectric emission by Apker and associates to determine the distribution of energy states in metals and semiconductors. The majority of the papers referred to in Ref. 3 and Ref. 4 have been published separately during 1949 and will be described later in this chapter. In Ref. 3 numerical comparison is made between experiment and theory for conductivity in aluminum doped germanium and it is shown that both the impurity range and the intrinsic range can be accounted for. Some recent results are described of the effect of nucleon bombardment on the conductivity and ,the production of p-n junctions in germanium. A summary is given of the work on oxide semiconductors by Verwey and associates. Although Ref. 4 was published in 1950, it is mentioned here because it is a part of the compilation of Symposium papers. It summarizes a number of papers on the transistor. Reviews on semiconductors and rectifiers were written by Mott5,6 and Tesyner7. A general qualitative disijussion of the nature of semiconductors was done by Andrews8. Haayman and Oosterhout9 wrote a short summary of the nature of semiconductors and discussed their practical application by the Philips Company."
"The principal experimental contributions to our knowledge of barium titanate and related subjects in the year 1949 had to do with crystals and ceramics of barium titanate, miscellaneous titanates, other ferroelectric materials, and activated ceramics. Contributions to theory were equally important. There was considerable overlapping of the above fields in individual papers, although a rough classification has been attempted in preparing this digest."
"The general trend this past year in the application of dielectric heating indicates concentration largely on those fields in which the technique has previously proved most useful. Also, there has been a general spread of information. Discussions of the subject have appeared in several European publications (German, Italian, French) 1,2,3, some of which have been translations of articles appearing previously in this country and some of which have been review articles."
"R.K. Hursh1 describes a porcelain made by casting to produce a satisfactory vacuum tube for a betatron. The tube is toroidal in form with two tubular arms attached to which glass connections are fused for the sealed-in electrical leads. The interior of the tube is permanently sealed off and holds a high vacuum."
"Recent developments in research on insulating oils are largely concerned with methods of testing and evaluation rather than with the development of new or better petroleum products. Without adequate test methods (other than long time service tests), no criteria are available for distinguishing between good and bad liquid dielectrics. Unfortunately, a large amount of isolated individual research, by independent companies, has not been published and is, therefore, not available to oil chemists."
"Although the literature of paper is voluminous, that on electrical insulating papers is meager. Less than 2% of the cataloged articles on electrical insulation in the New York Public Library deal specifically with paper. When we consider only electrical insulating paper literature for 1936-1937, there is hardly sufficient for a report. It has seemed best, therefore, to include in this review other aspects of paper which are of importance electrically."
"While during the year 1949 considerable publicity has been accorded the development of certain electrically conductive plastics, the fact still remains that the great majority or synthetic organic plastics are inherently electrical insulators, or dielectrics, with, to be sure, varying degrees of excellence in this regard. The reader of this review, however, if he is not already aware of the trend in recent years, will be surprised at the relatively small number of papers on plastics published during 1949 that have dealt directly with the electrical properties and electrical applications of these materialsdeal. But the successful use of practically any insulating material depends upon a great more than a knowledge of the electrical properties alone. It requires as wide a knowledge as possible of the mechanical and thermal properties, chemical stability, moisture resistance, problems of fabrication, economic factors, etc. The literature on plastics in general during the past year has contributed substantially to the fund of basic knowledge of these materials and is considered to be an important part of the literature on dielectrics."
"The manufacturers of rubber insulation continue to prefer synthetic rubber over natural rubber as their basic material. They are still, on the basis of percentage of total rubber consumption, one of the largest users of synthetic rubber. The most popular GR-S continues to be GR-S 65 or its analogs made by the acid-glue coagulation of diluted latex and the special dewatering process of the Naugatuck plant."
"This report deals with dielectric tests on completed apparatus. Tests on materials and on components during the course of fabrication usually are left to the discretion of the manufacturer and are not a subject foe standardization except as to method and technique. Impulse test values where specified in standards are based on the Basic Impulse Levels and thus are consistent for different equipment. Impulse test conditions and technique are outside the scope. Hence, this report deals mostly with conditions and test values associated with low-frequency dielectric tests."
"This standard applies to all single or multipole alternating-current automatic circuit reclosers rated from 1,500 to 15,000 volts."
"The purpose of these specifications is to recommend minimum functional and performance characteristics relating to the speed-governing of steam turbines intended to drive electric generators that may, if desired, be included in prime-mover purchase specifications."
"Presents summaries of roundtable discussions from the above-named conference."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: dielectric constants; metal-semiconductor interfaces; dielectric properties; transformer oil; insulating materials; varnished insulation; capacitance; microwave refractometer; dielectric breakdown and electrical insulation."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"One of the main objectives of the Conference on Electrical Insulation is to establish an intimate contact and exchange of ideas between the science devoted to fundamental research on dielectrics and the industry concerned with their applications. In the last few years it appeared as if this purpose was not being accomplished. Our program has oscillated between a too scientific approach, frightening the practical engineer, and a too practical approach, alienating the scientists. In addition, we began to load our agenda with so many papers that the chance for unhurried discussion was lost, and the membership brought to the verge of physical exhaustion."
"For most solids, including the highly ionic alkali halides, the molar polarizabilities at optical frequencies, RQ (defined by the Lorentz-Lorenz equation), and at low frequencies, Rs (defined by the Clausius-Mosotti equation), are strongly dependent on temperature and pressure. This arises from the fact that the molar polarizability of a medium is determined by the absorption frequencies and optical strengths of the ultraviolet and infrared bands. In solids where there is appreciable interaction between the atoms and where there is a simultaneous participation of two or more atoms in the optical process, the frequency and strength of the absorption-bands are dependent upon the interatomic distance and the amplitude of vibration of the atoms. The dependence of the dielectric constant on temperature, dε/dT, will therefore be determined by the change in polarizability with interatomic distance and amplitude of vibration as well as by the change in number of atoms per unit volume."
"The conductivity σ is given by σ =exp(-W/RT) (ohm.cm)-1, where T is the absolute temperature, R the gas constant and W the activation energy in calories per mole. (There is also a second term of the same form which was not prominent in the present measurements.) It is shown that the activation energy for conduction in barium titanate ceramics containing lead or lithium is about 18.4 kcal/mole (0.8 electron volts), and that this is either equal to or not very different from the activation energy for conduction in the single crystal."
"The chemical approach to the synthesis of semiconductors is based on the electroneutrality of crystal lattices. Even minor concentrations of impurities, which do not have to conform with the more rigid requirements for the formation of mixed crystals have to be balanced electrically in order to enter a crystal lattice. A lattice can force the impurity to assume the valency of its own cations. For example, tetravalent vanadium is stabilized when vanadium is introduced into ZrO2. The lattice may also cause the valency of some of its own cations to change in order to balance the effect of the impurity."
"The chemical picture of the constitution of semiconductors derived in the previous paper was used as a basis for examining metal-semiconductor interfaces. It was found that the chemical composition of a semiconductor exerts a profound influence upon its ability to form a rectifier. The insulator NiO (of stoichiometric composition) which is green can be converted into a black material with semiconducting properties either by bringing into its lattice excess oxygen ions (heating in an oxidizing atmosphere) or by substituting a monovalent ion for an occasional in a neutral atmosphere. Both treatments lead to crystals with some “missing electrons” or with Ni2+ ions taking the place of some Ni3+ ions. As a result, they possess electronic conductivity. Oxidation in addition to producing Ni3+ ions also produces positive holes which can migrate through the crystal. The replacement of some ions by monovalent ions, however, makes it possible to retain the original structure without producing holes."
"A method of measuring at microwave frequencies both the real (ε') and imaginary (ε\") part of the complex dielectric constant of liquids with a loss tangent less than 0,05 is described. The method uses a vertical section of rectangular waveguide for both propagation and for the liquid cell, which is sealed from the rest of the waveguide by a thin mica window. The waveguide cell is terminated by a micrometer driven open circuit plunger. A klystron, square wave modulated at 1000 cps, is used to generate the signal, while a slotted section of waveguide, directly below the cell, with a probe coupled to a silicon crystal is the detection device. The probe is micrometer driven. The signal power level at the probe is indicated by the output of an audio amplifier fed by the crystal and tuned to the modulation frequency."
"The dielectric constant and cooling curves of highly purified n-hexadecane, n-dodecyl, n-hexadecyl, n-octadecyl, and n-docosyl bromide have been measured over a large temperature range and at audio frequencies. These compounds will be designated hereafter as C16, C12-Br, C16-Br, C18-Br, and C22-Br respectively. C12-Br, C16-Br, and C18-Br showed a gradual rise in dielectric constant (prestation) beginning far below the melting point. This behavior, which is identical for falling temperature, is illustrated in Fig. 1 for C16-Br. In contrast, C22-Br in Fig. 2 froze at 40°C and showed a sharp transition in the solid at 30°C."
"The dielectric constant is a very useful tool for studying molecular freedom and phase changes in organic polar compounds. Its magnitude can be used as an indication of the degree of orientational freedom of molecules in both liquid and solid phases. Thermal behavior is another useful tool, which, when combined with dielectric constant data, can often be helpful in describing phase changes in terms of crystalline structure and orientational freedom of dipoles in solids."
"This paper deals with the use of the temperature of the dissipation factor maximum for the plasticiser, the, base resin and the plasticized composition itself end draws some conclusions concerning the use of this data both to predict the low temperature performance of the plasticized composition and the olasticizer-polymer interaction."
"A theory of electret behavior, which we have recently offered, explains the heterocharge of the electret in terms of a volume effect and the homocharge in terms of a surface effect. Its main points are summed up below and the reasoning leading to these conclusions has been further clarified."
"The purpose of this study was the investigation by means of radioactive tracers of some fundamental processes occurring in insulating oils. The principle used was the measurement of the diffusion coefficient of a labelled compound in the oil. Stokes' relation connects the diffusion coefficient with the size of the diffusing particles and it was this latter quantity which was utilized in answering the various questions posed."
"The invention of the transformer some sixty years ago, made possible the tremendous growth and present importance of the power generating, transmitting and distributing industry, to the point where today it is the very backbone of our industrial civilization."
"Loss angle and dielectric constant of various celluloses were measured at frequencies of 500, 1000, 2000, and 4000 cycles by means of a conjugate Schering bridge equipped with a Wagner ground. A transition type oscillator was the source of variable frequency. The test capacitor system permitted measurement of electrode separation at the time of electrical measurement. The system could be evacuated to 0,1 micron pressure, and was enclosed in an insulated shielded box whose temperature could be controlled from 25 to 105°C. Dielectric constant was calculated to a standard density of 0.8 g/c.c, by means of the Clausius-Mosotti relation, Loss angle was calculated to standard density assuming that loss factor and density bear a linear relationship."
"This paper is concerned only with the effect of the dissipation factor of the liquid upon the overall dissipation factor of impregnated paper insulation."
"The electrical conductivities of the high polymer materials used in this investigation (polystyrene, methylmethacrylate, and polyvinylbutyral) were so low that special equipment was required for their measurement. A Compton electrometer was used as a null indicator in a circuit similar to that described by P.J. Higgs, Journal of Sci. Instruments, Vol. 10, page 169, June 1933. This circuit is shown in Fig. 1. The electrometer is shorted except during a measurement. The deflection of the electrometer M during measurement is kept at zero by decreasing the capacitance of the variable air capacitor C at such a rate that it nullifies the effect on the electrometer of the current through the specimen. The capacitance is changed at a uniform rate by an electric motor which is geared to the capacitor. The speed of the motor is controlled by a variable series resistance. The conductance (G) of the specimen is computed from the formula: G = Ec/Ex · Δc/Δt where Ec and Ex are the voltages applied to the variable air capacitor and the specimen respectively, and ΔC is the capacitance change in time Δt. By the use of various voltages and capacitors of different sizes it is possible to measure conductances ranging from 10-9 mho to 10-16mho."
"“Teflon” is the du Pont trade name for the polymer made from tetrafluorethylene. The polymer has a linear chain structure of carbon atoms, to each of which is attached two fluorine atoms. It is capable of continuously withstanding operating temperatures in the range of 200 to 300°C. It is insoluble, and is attacked only by a few rarely occurring materials. Its electrical losses are low, and its volume and surface resistivities are high."
"Mixtures made by milling into polystyrene the powdered metals copper, magnesium, aluminum, and a non-tarnishing magnesium-aluminum alloy were found to have a wide variety of dielectric behavior, Explanation is proposed on the basis of the Maxwell-Wagner-Sillars* theory with the additional hypothesis of particle-particle contact of varying resistance dependent upon the nature of the oxide coating on the particles."
"A new class of ferroelectric ceramics was revealed in a study of mixtures of lead zirconate and up to 40 mol percent barium zirconate. These compositions were prepared from pure zirconium oxide, lead monoxide and barium carbonate mixed in the desired stoichiometric proportions and calcined in covered platinum crucibles at 1050°C. The calcined product was pulverized and compressed in the form of discs which were sintered at temperatures ranging from 1300°C to 1400°C. This was done in air with lead, oxide vapor in equilibrium with molten lead oxide."
"Mica occurs in nature in “books” consisting of a number of layers or laminae which can be readily split and separated along basic cleavage planes. Most of the mica pieces are too small in size for industrial use, so that it is necessary to split the mica into very thin laminae (0.0006 to 0.0013 in.) and to build up plates from these laminae using a suitable binding material. When in this form it is known as “manufactured electrical mica”."
"Integrated mica derives its name from the fact that it consists of numerous flakes of mica, which are held together by their own cohesive force so as to form a continuous sheet. The process begins at the mine, where mica schist or giant granite is crushed and the mica flakes removed. These are then washed and split in such a manner that the cohesive force between the laminae is retained. The flakes which are 0.0003 inches thick or less are then carried in a liquid bath onto a belt, and when the liquid is removed, the flakes re-cohere to form a continuous sheet of mica."
"Previously this group reported on the testing of salt-fog penetration and the failure, in heat endurance tests of varnished insulation, that is, on Coated fabrics and paper. The tests were based upon the use of the electrographic printing method which, has been described in the 1948 Annual Report of the Conference. The present paper is a progress report. It shows the application of the test method by using city current with suitable transformation by a bell transformer and a small selenium rectifier. (The scheme is attached)."
"The accurate measurement of dielectric losses in modern power cable is best achieved by means of a suitable bridge circuit. In particular, when reasonably high voltage must be used, the Schering bridge, in one form or another, has proven itself universally."
"A. In the device described below, two phase motors are used as discriminating elements. Basically, the scheme of operation of this self-tracking detector is as follows. The driving signal is applied to one winding of a two-phase motor, arid the output signal of the bridge is applied to the second winding."
"Measurement of the temperature coefficient of capacitance involves the measurement of very small changes of relatively large capacitors. Hence a prime requisite for the measuring equipment is a high sensitivity. The “double heterodyne” method illustrated in the attached figure, has a very high sensitivity and can detect changes of 0,001 micromicrofarads in a 1000 micromicrofarad capacitor."
"The Boonton Model 160-A Q Meter is an example of a convenient and rapid instrument, incorporating a resonant circuit that is widely used to measure materials. At frequencies up to about 20 megacycles, errors due to frequency effects are small and can generally be disregarded. However, above this frequency, the stray resistances and inductances in the Q Meter may cause serious errors. The more important of these strays and their approximate values are shown in the attached diagram. The effect of these strays is shown below."
"Many of the circuits commonly used for the measurement of the components of alternating current impedances can be synthesized from a fundamental approach. Assume that any network connecting a source and a load in such a manner that zero transmission results can be looked upon as a combination of two networks delivering to the load two currents that are equal in magnitude and opposite in phase."
"In the measurement of the dielectric constant of gases or changes in the dielectric constant of solids and liquids at centimeter wavelengths, the need arises for the accurate determination of small changes in the resonance frequency of a cavity resonator. A sensitive instrument designed to measure and record such changes in frequency has been developed which is adaptable to very low loss materials."
"Since all methods of determining dielectric constant and loss by transmission line or waveguide techniques have in common the necessity of measuring the propagation constant, γ= α +jβ of waves in the dielectric medium, the most direct method is that of measuring both α and β in a dielectric-filled section of slotted line or waveguide. In this way, the unwieldly calculations are avoided which are otherwise required to deduce α and β from measurements made outside the medium."
"Although much work has been done on the breakdown strength of oil, comparatively little has been done with impulse, or lightning-like, voltages. Most of this has been with sharp-edged electrodes resulting in indeterminate maximum stresses."
"The most important point in the evaluation of the life of an insulating material under different frequencies is to maintain a uniform condition of breakdown. Life of a specimen based on the values including those of edge failures is not reliable."
"The problem in high voltage cables is to contain voltages of the order of 100,000 to 500,000 volts by means of a suitable insulating medium around a conductor of diameter between l/2 in. and 2 in., the cable being of sufficient flexibility to permit being transported in long lengths on reels. An overall diameter of about 4 in. is about the largest practical size."
"Electrostatic generators, now produced commercially for a variety of scientific medical and industrial users, depend for their successful operation upon good-quality solid insulation. For the most compact generators, in which the solid insulation is continuously under a stress of over 60 KV per inch d.c., the structure is immersed in nitrogen or other inert gas at a pressure of 400 pounds/square inch, and great attention must be paid to the electrostatic field to ensure that stress is everywhere uniformly distributed."
"Cables for luminous signs require an insulation of high dielectric strength, flame resistance, and in addition, high resistance to tracking (high surface discharge strength because the cable must operate, without protection or end reinforcement, in dirty, moist, and salt-laden atmospheres). Alternatively, an insulation of high dielectric strength, such as polyethylene, may be used (which, incidently, has also high tracking strength) but it needs covering with a flame-resistant jacket which in turn must have high tracking resistance (two-wall construction)."
"Basic factors surrounding the application of insulated conductors within generating stations concern such references as: 1. Ambient air temperature. 2. Proximity of one power cable to other fully loaded power cables. 3. Type or grade of cable insulation. 4. Conductor size required for dependable power service."
"There are several drawbacks to the conventional molding procedure of making vulcanized rubber joints and patches. The most serious one is the poor electrical quality, which in most molded rubber joints is decidedly inferior to that of the core on which they are made. Another is the known fact that a mold has to fit a particular wire rather closely. If a wide range of sizes is to be handled the cost of stoves and molds may amount to thousands of dollars. In certain applications the molding procedure is hardly feasible at all, e.g., for very small patches, or for patches on twisted heavy conductors with relatively thin insulation. In this paper a method is described which overcomes these disadvantages. The method involves the use of pressure curing types, heating being accomplished by high frequency or radiant sources."
"In order to obtain information on the microbiological factors in underground metal corrosion, a research project was started in 1948 to evaluate the role of soil micro-organisms in metal corrosion and coating deterioration. Samples of soil were obtained from the vicinity of buried steel pipes undergoing corrosion at eleven sites in New York City. These were analyzed in the laboratory for bacterial content and chemical properties. Three groups of sulphur bacteria, one iron and a nitrate reducing group were always represented in the collections. These bacteria influence the corrosion of metal underground. Considerable information was obtained on soil properties and environment conditions which would affect the growth of these bacteria."
"This paper deals with the mechanism of soil microbial attack and the physical structure that makes insulation vulnerable."
"Experimental samples of polyethylene insulated wire failed at 100 KV DC when there was a film of Vistac #4 on the conductor, whereas similar wire without the Vistac stood about 275 KV DC. There were two possibilities: 1) Simple mechanical damage. Vistac might accumulate in the tip during extrusion and penetrate the wall of hot polyethylene. 2) A real electrical effect of Vistac. It was postulated that any adjacent film of material of considerably lower dielectric strength than the insulation proper might lower the overall breakdown."
"The standard in this publication is the first revision of the American Standard for Relays Associated with Power Switchgear, C37.1-1937. A proposed revision, dated January 12, 1949, was prepared by the American Institute of Electrical Engineers Relay Committee and then submitted to the American Standards Association, Incorporated. Subsequent work on the proposed standard was carried on by the Sectional Committee on Power Switchgear, C37. The standard relates only to relays of types directly associated with power switchgear. It does not cover relays of types designed primarily for industrial control, excitation, or governor regulating, telephone, telegraph, traffic signal, or similar purpose."
